LINWOOD, KANSAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. PC 608-B-2024, passed 12-17-2024   
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHAPTER I: ADMINISTRATION
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   GOVERNING BODY
      
3.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
4.   PERSONNEL POLICY AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
      
5.   OATHS AND BONDS
      
6.   OPEN RECORDS
      
7.   INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS
      
8.   FINANCES AND REVENUE
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-101   Code designated
   
1-102   Definitions
   
1-103   Existing ordinances
   
1-104   Effect of repeal
   
1-105   Catchlines of sections
   
1-106   Parenthetical and reference matter
   
1-107   Amendments; repeal
   
1-108   Ordinances
   
1-109   Same; subject and title; amendment
   
1-110   Same; publication
   
1-111   Same; ordinance book
   
1-112   Resolutions, motions
   
1-113   City records
   
1-114   Altering code
   
1-115   Scope of application
   
1-116   General penalty
   
1-117   Severability
§ 1-101 CODE DESIGNATED.
   The chapters, articles and sections herein shall constitute and be
designated as “The Code of the City of Linwood, Kansas”, and may be so cited.
The code may also be cited as the “Linwood City Code”.
§ 1-102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Linwood, Kansas.
   CODE. The code of the City of Linwood, Kansas.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; and if the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
   COUNTY. The County of Leavenworth in the State of Kansas.
   DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. Whenever a provision appears requiring or
authorizing the head of a department or officer of the city to do some act or
perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize such department head or
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required
act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate
otherwise.
   GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender include the feminine and
neuter.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Mayor and City Council of the city, or those persons
appointed to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor or the person designated by
the city as provided in this code.
   IN THE CITY. Includes all territory in which the city now has, or shall
hereafter acquire jurisdiction for the exercise of its police powers or other
regulatory powers.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
persons or officers.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the
plural include the singular.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an OATH, and in such cases the word “swear” is
equivalent to the word “affirm”.
   OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS AND THE LIKE. Officers, departments, boards,
commissions and employees referred to in this code shall mean officers,
departments, boards, commissions and employees of the city, unless the context
clearly indicates otherwise.
   OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include not only the owner of
the whole but any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or joint tenant of
the whole or a part of such building or land.
   PERSON. Includes a firm, partnership, association of persons, corporation,
organization or any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal and mixed property.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments, and all rights
thereto and interest therein, equitable as well as legal.
   SHALL, MAY. SHALL is mandatory and MAY is permissive.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE, SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write, when
his or her name is written near such mark, and is witnessed by a person who
writes his or her own name as a witness.
   STATE. The State of Kansas.
   STREET. Includes public streets, avenues, boulevards, highways, roads,
alleys, lanes, viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto and all other
public thoroughfares in the city.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall include any person
holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of such
building or land, whether alone or with others.
   TENSES. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
   WRITING or WRITTEN. May include printing, engraving, lithography and any
other mode of representing words and letters, except those cases where the
written signature or the mark of any person is required by law.
   YEAR. A calendar year, except where otherwise provided.
§ 1-103 EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are in substance the
same as those of ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this
code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
§ 1-104 EFFECT OF REPEAL.
   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive an ordinance previously
repealed, nor shall such repeal affect any right that has accrued, any duty
imposed, any penalty incurred, or any proceeding commenced under or by virtue
of the ordinance repealed, except as shall be expressly stated therein.
§ 1-105 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the sections of this code printed in capital letters are
intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall
not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of any
section, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any
section, including its catchline, is amended or reenacted.
§ 1-106 PARENTHETICAL AND REFERENCE MATTER.
   The matter in parenthesis at the ends of sections is only for information
purposes and is not a part of the code. Citations indicate only the source and
the text may or may not be changed by this code. This code is a new enactment
under the provisions of K.S.A. 12-3014 and 12-3015. Reference matter not in
parenthesis is only for information purposes and is not a part of this code.
§ 1-107 AMENDMENTS; REPEAL.
   Any portion of this code may be amended by specific reference to the section
number as follows: “Section _____ of the code of the City of Linwood is hereby
amended to read as follows: (the new provisions shall then be set out in full).
. .” A new section not heretofore existing in the code may be added as follows:
“The code of the City of Linwood is hereby amended by adding a section (or
article or chapter) which reads as follows: . . .(the new provisions shall be
set out in full). .” All sections, or articles, or chapters to be repealed
shall be repealed by specific reference as follows: “Section (or article or
chapter) __________ of the code of the City of Linwood is hereby repealed”.
§ 1-108 ORDINANCES.
   The governing body shall have the care, management and control of the city
and its finances, and shall pass all ordinances needed for the welfare of the
city. All ordinances shall be valid when a majority of all the members-elect of
the City Council shall vote in favor. Where the number of favorable votes is
one less than required, the Mayor shall have power to cast the deciding vote in
favor of the ordinance.
(K.S.A. 12-3002)
§ 1-109 SAME; SUBJECT AND TITLE; AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall contain more than one subject, which shall be clearly
expressed in its title; and no section or sections of an ordinance shall be
amended unless the amending ordinance contains the entire section or sections
as amended and the section or sections amended shall be repealed.
§ 1-110 SAME; PUBLICATION.
   (a)   No ordinance, except those appropriating money, shall be in force
until published in the official city newspaper by the City Clerk. One
publication of any such ordinance shall be sufficient unless additional
publications are required by statute or ordinance. The publisher of the
newspaper shall prefix such published ordinance by a line in brackets stating
the month, day and year of such publication.
   (b)   In lieu of division (a) above, the city may opt to publish a summary
of an ordinance so long as:
      (1)   The publication is identified as a “summary” and contains notice
that the complete text of the ordinance may be obtained or viewed free of
charge at the office of the City Clerk;
      (2)   The City Attorney certifies the summary of the ordinance prior to
publication to ensure that the summary is legally accurate and sufficient; and
      (3)   The publication contains the city’s official website address where
a reproduction of the original ordinance is available for a minimum of one week
following the summary publication in the newspaper.
   (c)   If an ordinance is subject to petition pursuant to state law, then the
summary shall contain a statement that the ordinance is subject to petition.
(K.S.A. 12-3007)
§ 1-111 SAME; ORDINANCE BOOK.
   Following final passage and approval of each ordinance, the City Clerk shall
enter the same in the ordinance book of the city as provided by law. Each
ordinance shall have appended thereto the manner in which the ordinance was
passed, the date of passage, the page of the journal containing the record of
the final vote on its passage, the name of the newspaper in which published and
the date of publication.
(K.S.A. 12-3008)
§ 1-112 RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS.
   Except where a state statute or city ordinance specifically requires
otherwise, all resolutions and motions shall be passed if voted upon favorably
by a majority present at a meeting of the City Council.
§ 1-113 CITY RECORDS.
   The City Clerk or any other officer or employee having custody of city
records and documents shall maintain such records and documents in accordance
with K.S.A. 12-120 to 12-121 inclusive, which is incorporated by reference
herein as if set out in full and as provided in the State Open Records Act and
the city policy regarding open public records.
(K.S.A. 12-120 to 12-121)
§ 1-114 ALTERING CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or amend
by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby. This restriction shall not apply to amendments or revisions of this
code authorized by ordinance duly adopted by the governing body.
§ 1-115 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   Any person convicted of doing any of the acts or things prohibited, made
unlawful, or the failing to do any of the things commanded to be done, as
specified and set forth in this code, shall be deemed in violation of this code
and punished in accordance with §
1-116. Each day any violation of this code continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
§ 1-116 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever any offense is declared by any provision of this code, absent a
specific or unique punishment prescribed, the offender shall be punished in
accordance with this section:
   (a)   A fine of not more than $1,000;
   (b)   Imprisonment in jail for not more than 179 days; or
   (c)   Both such fine and imprisonment not to exceed divisions (a) and (b)
above.
§ 1-117 SEVERABILITY.
   If for any reason any chapter, article, section, subsection, sentence,
clause or phrase of this code or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance, is declared to be unconstitutional or invalid or unenforceable,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
code.
ARTICLE 2: GOVERNING BODY
Section
   
1-201   Governing body
   
1-202   Same; powers generally
   
1-203   Same; meetings
   
1-204   Same; quorum
   
1-205   Reserved
   
1-206   Powers of the Mayor
   
1-207   President of the Council
   
1-208   Administrative powers
   
1-209   Vacancies in governing body; how filled
   
1-210   Compensation
   
1-211   Expenses
   
1-212   Incorporating Code of Procedure for Kansas cities
   
1-213   Code of Ethics
§ 1-201 GOVERNING BODY.
   (a)   The city, by the power vested in it by Article 12, § 5 of the Kansas
Constitution, hereby elects to and does exempt itself and make inapplicable to
it K.S.A. 15-201, which applies to this city, but does not apply uniformly to
all cities.
   (b)   The governing body shall consist of a Mayor and five Council members
to be elected to terms as set out in Ch. VI of this code. The Mayor and Council
members shall be residents and qualified electors of the city.
(Charter Ord. 1-2015, passed 11-17-2015; Charter Ord. 1-2017, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 1-202 SAME; POWERS GENERALLY.
   All powers exercised by cities of the third class, or which shall hereafter
be conferred upon them, shall be exercised by the governing body, subject to
such limitations as prescribed by law. All executive and administrative
authority granted or limited by law shall be vested in the Mayor and Council as
governing body of the city.
(K.S.A. 12-103)
§ 1-203 SAME; MEETINGS.
   (a)   Regular meetings of the governing body shall be held on the first and
third Tuesday of each month at 7:00 p.m. In the event the regular meeting day
shall fall on any legal holiday or any day observed as a holiday by the city
offices, the governing body shall fix the succeeding day not observed as a
holiday as a meeting day.
   (b)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or Acting Mayor, on the
written request of any three members of the Council specifying the object and
purpose of such meeting, which request shall be read at a meeting and entered
at length on the journal.
   (c)   Regular or special meetings of the governing body may be adjourned for
the completion of its business at such subsequent time and place as the
governing body shall determine in its motion to adjourn.
(K.S.A. 15-106) (Ord. 584, passed 2-1-1988; Res. 1-2011, passed 2-8-2011)
§ 1-204 SAME; QUORUM.
   In all cases, it shall require a majority of the Council-elect to constitute
a quorum to do business.
§ 1-205 RESERVED.
§ 1-206 POWERS OF THE MAYOR.
   (a)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the governing body. The
Mayor shall have the tie-breaking vote on all questions when the members
present are equally divided.
   (b)   The Mayor shall:
      (1)   Have the superintending control of all officers and affairs of the
city;
      (2)   Take care that the ordinances of the city are complied with;
      (3)   Sign the commissions and appointments of all officers elected or
appointed;
      (4)   Endorse the approval of the governing body on all official bonds;
      (5)   From time to time communicate to the City Council such information
and recommend such measures as he or she may deem advisable;
      (6)   Have the power to approve or veto any ordinance as the laws of the
state shall prescribe; and
      (7)   Sign all orders and drafts drawn upon the city treasury for money.
   (c)   The Mayor shall appoint, by and with the consent of the Council, a
Municipal Judge of the Municipal Court, and City Attorney, and any other
officers deemed necessary. Any officers appointed and confirmed shall hold an
initial term of office not to exceed one year and until their successors are
appointed and qualified. Any officers who are reappointed shall hold their
offices for a term of one year until their successors are appointed and
qualified. The Council shall by ordinance specify the duties and compensation
of the office holders and by ordinance may abolish any offices created by the
Council whenever deemed expedient.
(Charter Ord. 1-2017, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 1-207 PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall elect one of its own body as President of the
Council. The President of the Council shall preside at all meetings of the
Council in the absence of the Mayor. In the absence of both the Mayor and the
President of the Council, the Council shall elect one of its members as “Acting
President of the Council”. The President and Acting President, when occupying
the place of Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other Council members but
shall exercise no veto.
§ 1-208 ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS.
   The governing body may designate whether the administration of a policy or
the carrying out of any order shall be performed by a committee, an appointive
officer or the Mayor. If no administrative authority is designated, it shall be
vested in the Mayor.
§ 1-209 RESERVED.
§ 1-210 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the governing body shall receive as compensation such amounts as
may be fixed by ordinance.
§ 1-211 EXPENSES.
   Each member of the governing body shall receive for his or her services and
as reimbursement for his or her expenses, compensation as follows:
   (a)   Mileage at the same rate as is established by law by the state for
state employees for each mile traveled by the shortest route upon the
performance of duties assigned by the Mayor and/or Council; and/or
   (b)   Reimbursement for actual food and lodging expenses upon the
performance of duties assigned by the Mayor and/or Council, provided such
expenses shall be documented by proper receipts.
§ 1-212 INCORPORATING CODE OF PROCEDURE FOR KANSAS CITIES.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of establishing a
code of procedure for the conduct of City Council meetings, that certain code
known as the “Governing Body Handbook 2015”, prepared and published in book
form by the League of Kansas Municipalities, Topeka, Kansas, save and except
such articles, sections, parts or portions as are hereafter omitted, deleted,
modified or changed. One copy of said Governing Body Handbook shall be marked
or stamped “Governing Body Handbook 2015”, with all sections or portions
thereof intended to be omitted or changed clearly marked to show any such
omission or change and to which shall be attached a copy of this section, and
filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public
at all reasonable hours.
§ 1-213 CODE OF ETHICS.
   (a)   Declaration of policy. The proper operation of our government requires
that public officials and employees be independent, impartial and responsible
to the people; that governmental decisions and policy be made in the proper
channels; and that the public have confidence in the integrity of its
government. In recognition of those goals, there is hereby established a Code
of Ethics for all officials and employees, whether elected or appointed, paid
or unpaid. The purpose of this Code is to establish ethical standards by
setting forth those acts or actions that are incompatible with the best
interests of the city.
   (b)   Responsibilities of public office. Public officials and employees are
agents of public purpose and hold office for the benefit of the public. They
are bound to uphold the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of this state and to carry out impartially the laws of the nation, state and
city and thus to foster respect for all government. They are bound to observe
in their official acts the highest standards of morality and to discharge
faithfully the duties of their office regardless of personal considerations,
recognizing that the long-term public interest must be their primary concern.
Their conduct in both their official and private affairs should be above
reproach.
   (c)   Dedicated service.
      (1)   All officials and employees of the city should be responsive to the
political objectives expressed by the electorate and the programs developed to
attain those objectives. Appointive officials and employees should adhere to
the rule of work and performance established as the standard for their
positions by the appropriate authority.
      (2)   Officials and employees should not exceed their authority or breach
the law or ask others to do so, and they should work in full cooperation with
other public officials and employees unless prohibited from so doing by law or
by officially recognized confidentiality of their work.
   (d)   Fair and equal treatment.
      (1)   Interest in appointments. Canvassing of members of the City
Council, directly or indirectly, in order to obtain preferential consideration
in connection with any appointment to the municipal service shall disqualify
the candidate for appointment except with reference to positions filled by
appointment by the City Council.
      (2)   Use of public property. No official or employee shall request or
permit the use of city- owned vehicles, equipment, materials or property for
personal convenience or profit, except when such services are available to the
public generally or are provided as city policy for the use of such official or
employee in the conduct of official business.
      (3)   Obligations to citizens. No official or employee shall grant any
special consideration, treatment or advantage to any citizen beyond that which
is available to every other citizen.
   (e)   Conflict of interest.
      (1)   Financial or personal interests. No elected or appointive city
official or employee, whether paid or unpaid, shall engage in any business or
transaction or shall have a financial or other personal interest, direct or
indirect, which is incompatible with the proper discharge of his or her duties
in the public interest or would tend to impair his or her independence of
judgment or action in the performance of his or her official duties. Personal,
as distinguished from financial interests, includes an interest arising from
blood or marriage relationships or close business or political association.
      (2)   Specific conflicts of interests. Specific conflicts of interest are
enumerated below for the guidance of officials and employees.
         (A)   Incompatible employment. No elected or appointive city official
or employee shall engage in or accept private employment or render services for
private interests when such employment or service is incompatible with the
proper discharge of his or her official duties or would tend to impair his or
her independence of judgment or action in the performance of his or her
official duties.
         (B)   Disclosure of confidential information. No elected or appointive
city official or employee shall, without proper legal authorization, disclose
confidential information concerning the property, government or affairs of the
city. Nor shall he or she use such information to advance the financial or
other private interest of himself, herself or others.
      (3)   Gifts and favors. No elected or appointive city official or
employee shall accept any valuable gift, whether in the form of service, loan,
thing or promise, from any person, firm or corporation which to his or her
knowledge is interested directly or indirectly in any manner whatsoever in
business dealings with the city; nor shall any such official or employee accept
any gift, favor or thing of value that may tend to influence him or her in the
discharge of his or her duties or grant in the discharge of his or her duties
any improper favor, service or thing of value. The prohibition against gifts or
favors shall not apply to an occasional non-pecuniary gift, of only nominal
value, an award publicly presented in recognition of public service, or any
gift which would have been offered or given to him or her if not an official or
employee.
      (4)   Representing private interest before city agencies or courts. No
elected or appointive city official or employee whose salary is paid in whole
or in part by the city shall appear in behalf of private interest before any
agency of this city. He or she shall not represent private interests in any
action or proceeding against the interest of the city in any litigation to
which the city is a party.
ARTICLE 3: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
1-301   Appointment
   
1-302   Employees
   
1-303   Removal
   
1-304   Vacancy in office
   
1-305   City Clerk
   
1-306   Same; fiscal records
   
1-307   Same; seal; oaths
   
1-308   Same; withholding agents
   
1-309   Assistant City Clerk
   
1-310   City Accountant
   
1-311   City Attorney; office; duties
   
1-312   City Prosecutor; office; duties
   
1-313   City Engineer
   
1-314   Appointment or employment in more than one position
   
1-315   Conflict of interest
   
1-316   Establishment of a drug-free workplace
§ 1-301 APPOINTMENT.
   At the first regular meeting in May of each year, the Mayor, by and with the
consent of the Council, shall appoint a City Clerk and City Accountant, and may
appoint a City Attorney, Municipal Judge and such other officers as may be
deemed necessary for the best interest of the city. Such officers shall hold
their respective offices until their successors have been appointed and
qualified. All such appointments shall be entered on the journal of proceedings
of the governing body. The duties and salaries of all appointed officers shall
be fixed by ordinance.
§ 1-302 EMPLOYEES.
   The person designated by the city shall have authority to hire all other
employees, or such authority may be delegated to the respective department
heads.
§ 1-303 REMOVAL.
   (a)   A majority of all members-elect of the Council may remove any
appointed officer.
   (b)   The Mayor may suspend at any time any appointed officer.
   (c)   Employees, other than appointed officers, may be removed by the Mayor
upon recommendation of the respective department heads.
§ 1-304 VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   Whenever a vacancy occurs in any appointive office for whatever reason, the
vacancy shall be filled by the governing body. Any person appointed to fill
such vacancy shall serve only until the next regular time for appointment.
§ 1-305 CITY CLERK.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (a)   Be custodian of all city records, books, files, papers, documents and
other personal effects belonging to the city and not properly pertaining to any
other office;
   (b)   Carry on all official correspondence of the city;
   (c)   Attend and keep a record of the proceedings of all regular and special
meetings of the governing body;
   (d)   Enter every appointment of office and the date thereof in the journal;
   (e)   Enter or place each ordinance of the city in the ordinance books after
its passage; and
   (f)   Publish all ordinances, except those appropriating money, and such
resolutions, notices and proclamations as may be required by law or ordinance.
§ 1-306 SAME; FISCAL RECORDS.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (a)   Prepare and keep suitable fiscal records according to generally
accepted accounting principles;
   (b)   Assist in preparing the annual budget;
   (c)   Audit all claims against the city for goods or services rendered for
the consideration of the governing body. His or her accounts shall properly
show the amounts paid from any fund of the city and the cash balance existing
in each fund;
   (d)   Keep an accurate account of all bonds issued by the city; and
   (e)   Keep a record of all special assessments.
§ 1-307 SAME; SEAL; OATHS.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (a)   Have custody of the corporate seal of the city and shall affix the
same to the official copy of all ordinances, contracts and other documents
required to be authenticated;
   (b)   Have power to administer oaths for all purposes pertaining to the
business and affairs of the city; and
   (c)   Keep suitable files of all such oaths required to be deposited in his
or her office.
§ 1-308 SAME; WITHHOLDING AGENTS.
   The City Clerk is designated as the withholding agent of the city for the
purposes of the Federal Revenue (Income) Act, and shall perform the duties
required of withholding agents by said Act or any other Act requiring
withholding from the compensation of any city officer or employee. The Clerk
shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the governing body or
the state statutes.
§ 1-309 ASSISTANT CITY CLERK.
   (a)   The office of Assistant City Clerk is hereby established. The Mayor
shall appoint, by and with the consent of the City Council, the Assistant City
Clerk. The person so appointed and confirmed shall hold the office until
vacant.
   (b)   The Assistant City Clerk shall perform those duties assigned to that
office by the City Clerk.
   (c)   Whenever a vacancy occurs in the position of City Clerk and the city
is without a person appointed, confirmed or qualified to hold that office, the
Assistant City Clerk shall become the acting City Clerk and fulfill the duties
of that office.
   (d)   Compensation of the Assistant City Clerk shall be set by ordinance
passed by the governing body.
§ 1-310 CITY ACCOUNTANT.
   The City Accountant shall:
   (a)   Keep a full and accurate record of all money received and paid out in
a ledger book provided by the governing body;
   (b)   Publish an annual financial statement;
   (c)   Deposit all public monies and sign all checks of the city;
   (d)   Pay out city funds only upon orders or warrants properly signed by the
Mayor and City Clerk; and
   (e)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the governing body
or the state statutes.
(K.S.A. 10-803, 12-1608)
§ 1-311 CITY ATTORNEY; OFFICE; DUTIES.
   (a)   There is hereby established the office of City Attorney. No person
shall be eligible for the office of City Attorney who is not an attorney at law
admitted to practice in the Supreme Court of the state. The City Attorney shall
be charged with the general direction and supervision of the legal affairs of
the city.
   (b)   The City Attorney shall:
      (1)   Attend meetings of the City Council when so directed to attend by
the Council;
      (2)   Advise the Mayor and City Council and all officers of the city upon
such legal questions affecting the city and its offices as may be submitted to
him or her;
      (3)   When requested by the City Council, give opinions in writing upon
any such questions;
      (4)   Draft such ordinances, contracts, leases, easements, conveyances
and other instruments in writing as may be submitted to him or her in the
regular transaction of affairs of the city;
      (5)   Approve all ordinances of the city as to form and legality;
      (6)   Attend Planning Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals meetings
when so directed by the Boards;
      (7)   Appear and prosecute all violations of city ordinances in Municipal
Court when his or her services shall be required; and
      (8)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the governing
body and the state statutes.
§ 1-312 CITY PROSECUTOR; OFFICE; DUTIES.
   (a)   There is hereby established the Office of City Prosecutor. No person
shall be eligible for the Office of City Prosecutor who is not an attorney at
law admitted to practice law in the state. The City Prosecutor shall:
      (1)   Attend meetings of the governing body when so directed to attend by
the Mayor or City Attorney;
      (2)   Advise the City Council and all officers of the city upon legal
questions affecting the city and its officers as may be submitted to him or
her;
      (3)   Draft such ordinances and other instruments in writing as may be
submitted to him or her in the regular transactions of the affairs of the city;
      (4)   Appear and prosecute all violations of city ordinances in Municipal
Court; and
      (5)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the governing
body and the state statutes.
   (b)   The governing body may appoint a City Prosecutor in accordance with §
1-301. In the event that there is no City Prosecutor, the City Attorney shall
serve in such capacity.
§ 1-313 CITY ENGINEER.
   (a)   The City Engineer shall be a licensed professional engineer in the
state.
   (b)   He or she shall be responsible for:
      (1)   The design and specifications for all city streets, sewers, water
lines, public buildings and other public facilities;
      (2)   The inspection of all public works projects including streets,
sewers, water lines and other public facilities; and
      (3)   The general supervision of the maintenance and repair of all public
facilities.
§ 1-314 APPOINTMENT OR EMPLOYMENT IN MORE THAN ONE POSITION.
   The same person may be appointed to more than one appointive office, or
employed in more than one department, except that the same person shall not be
appointed to incompatible offices. Salaries or wages of such persons shall be
prorated between the proper funds of the several offices or departments.
§ 1-315 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   All city officers and employees shall comply with the requirements of K.S.A.
75-4301a et seq., concerning governmental ethics and refrain from making or
participating in the making of a contract when prohibited by state law.
§ 1-316 ESTABLISHMENT OF A DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (a)   The governing body of the city recognizes that it is in the best
interests of the city, the public at large and the employees of the city to
establish and maintain a drug-free workplace.
   (b)   It is hereby deemed unlawful for employees of the city to manufacture,
distribute, sell, trade, buy, use, possess or be under the influence of any
illegal drug or controlled substance during working hours and while on property
owned by the city, and the same is prohibited in the workplace or while
operating machinery or equipment owned by the city.
   (c)   Any employees found to be in violation of this policy shall be subject
to termination, suspension, probation or reassessment of position or duties as
deemed appropriate by the employee’s supervisor or the governing body of the
city.
   (d)   There is hereby established a Drug-Free Awareness Program whereby the
city will make employees aware of the dangers of drugs in the workplace, the
policy of the city concerning illegal drugs and substances in the workplace and
the penalties that may be imposed for violating such policy.
   (e)   This section shall not apply to employees, deputies or agents engaged
in the performance of their duties which may require the possession of such
substances for investigatory or evidentiary purposes.
   (f)   This section shall be deemed as included in any employee hand book or
other policies previously enacted and in place for the city.
(Res. 2-2011, passed 3-1-2011)
ARTICLE 4: PERSONNEL POLICY AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Section
   
1-401   Personnel policies and guidelines
   
1-402   Employees Benefits Contribution Fund
   
1-403   City employee holidays
   
1-404   Participation in Kansas Public Employees Retirement System
§ 1-401 PERSONNEL POLICIES AND GUIDELINES.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of establishing
employee personnel rules and regulations the document entitled “Uniform
Personnel Policies and Guidelines for the City of Linwood”. One copy of said
document shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as adopted by the Code of
the City of Linwood” and which there shall be attached a copy of this section.
Said official copy shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall be open to
inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours. All departments
of the city shall be supplied with copies of such rules and regulations as may
be deemed necessary.
§ 1-402 EMPLOYEES BENEFITS CONTRIBUTION FUND.
   (a)   The city, in accordance with the provisions of K.S.A. 12-16,102, as
amended, does hereby establish an Employee Benefits Contribution Fund for the
purpose of paying the city’s share of employee benefits prescribed by division
(b) below.
   (b)   The city’s share of the cost of employee benefits authorized for
payment from the fund created by division (a) above shall include the
following: employer contributions for Social Security; workers’ compensation;
unemployment insurance; health care costs; employee benefit plans; and employee
retirement and pension programs.
(Ord. 601, passed 7-3-1990)
§ 1-403 CITY EMPLOYEE HOLIDAYS.
   (a)   The City Council has the authority to determine city employee legal
holidays.
(K.S.A. 35-107)
   (b)   Paid holidays are to be:
      (1)   New Year’s Day;
      (2)   Presidents’ Day;
      (3)   Memorial Day;
      (4)   Independence Day;
      (5)   Labor Day;
      (6)   Veterans’ Day;
      (7)   Thanksgiving Day and the Friday after;
      (8)   Christmas Eve; and
      (9)   Christmas Day.
(Res. 2-2013, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 1-404 PARTICIPATION IN KANSAS PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (a)   The municipality meets the statutory requirements to be considered an
“eligible employer” as defined by K.S.A. 74-4902(13).
   (b)   It is the desire of the municipality’s governing body, to become a
participating employer in the Kansas Public Employees Retirement System
(hereinafter KPERS) which is established under the provisions of K.S.A. 74-4901
et seq. effective January 1, 2003.
   (c)   The municipality hereby makes application to become a participating
employer to provide for the inclusion of all its eligible employees under KPERS
as provided by K.S.A. 74-4901 et seq., effective January 1, 2003.
(Res. 7-2002, passed 8-20-2002)
ARTICLE 5: OATHS AND BONDS
Section
   
1-501   Oath; affirmation
   
1-502   Oaths filed
   
1-503   Bonds required
   
1-504   Same; premiums
   
1-505   Condition of bonds
   
1-506   Approval of bonds
§ 1-501 OATH; AFFIRMATION.
   All officers and employees of the city, whether elected or appointed, either
under the laws of the state or ordinances of the city, shall before entering
upon the duties of their respective offices, take and subscribe an oath or
affirmation as follows.
   (a)   Oath. “I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will
support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State
of Kansas and faithfully discharge the duties of __________ (here enter name of
office or position). So help me God.”
   (b)   Affirmation. “I do solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and of the State of
Kansas and faithfully discharge the duties of ___________ (enter name of office
or position). This I do under the pains and penalties of perjury.”
(K.S.A. 54-104, 54-106, 75-4308)
§ 1-502 OATHS FILED.
   All officers and employees required to take and subscribe or sign an oath or
affirmation shall be supplied the forms for the purpose at the expense of the
city, and upon taking and subscribing or signing any such oath or affirmation,
the same shall be filed by the City Clerk.
§ 1-503 BONDS REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   The following city officers shall each, before entering upon the
duties of his or her office, give a good and sufficient corporate surety bond
to the city.
      (2)   The bond shall be in the following amount, to wit:
         (A)   City Accountant: $10,000;
         (B)   City Clerk: $10,000;
         (C)   Assistant City Clerk: $10,000;
         (D)   Clerk of Municipal Court: $1,000; and
         (E)   Judge of Municipal Court: $1,000.
   (b)   The governing body may provide for the coverage by blanket bond of
such officers and employees and in such amounts as the governing body may, by
resolution, designate.
§ 1-504 SAME; PREMIUMS.
   All premiums on surety bonds shall be paid by the city.
(K.S.A. 78-111)
§ 1-505 CONDITION OF BONDS.
   Each of the bonds required in § 1-503 shall be conditioned for the faithful
performance of duty and all acts required by the laws of the state and of the
city, and for the application and payment over to the proper persons of all
monies or property coming into the hands of each such officer by virtue of his
or her office.
§ 1-506 APPROVAL OF BONDS.
   All bonds given to the city shall be approved as to their form by the City
Attorney and as to surety and sufficiency by the governing body, unless
otherwise provided by the laws of the state.
ARTICLE 6: OPEN RECORDS
Section
   
1-601   Policy
   
1-602   Record custodians
   
1-603   Local Freedom of Information Officers
   
1-604   Public request for access
   
1-605   Facilities for public inspection
   
1-606   Procedures for inspection
   
1-607   Official custodians
   
1-608   Appointment of Local Freedom of Information Officer
   
1-609   Designation of additional record custodians
   
1-610   Requests to be directed to custodians
   
1-611   Fee administration
   
1-612   Inspection fee
   
1-613   Copying fee
   
1-614   Prepayment of fees
   
1-615   Payment
§ 1-601 POLICY.
   (a)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that all public
records which are made, maintained or kept by or are in the possession of the
city, its officers and employees, shall be open for public inspection as
provided by, and subject to the restrictions imposed by, the State Open Records
Act.
   (b)   Any person, upon request, shall have access to such open public
records for the purpose of inspecting, abstracting or copying such records
while they are in the possession, custody and control of the appointed or
designated record custodian thereof, or his or her designated representative.
§ 1-602 RECORD CUSTODIANS.
   (a)   All city officers and employees appointed or designated as record
custodians under this article shall: protect public records from damage and
disorganization; prevent excessive disruption of the essential functions of the
city; provide assistance and information upon request; ensure efficient and
timely action and response to all applications for inspection of public
records; and shall carry out the procedures adopted by this city for inspecting
and copying open public records.
   (b)   The official custodian shall prominently display or distribute or
otherwise make available to the public a brochure in the form prescribed by the
Local Freedom of Information Officer that contains basic information about the
rights of a requester, the responsibilities of a public agency and the
procedures for inspecting or obtaining a copy of public records under the State
Open Records Act. The official custodian shall display or distribute or
otherwise make available to the public the brochure at one or more places in
the administrative offices of the city where it is available to members of the
public who request public information in person.
§ 1-603 LOCAL FREEDOM OF INFORMATION OFFICERS.
   The Local Freedom of Information Officer shall:
   (a)   Prepare and provide educational materials and information concerning
the State Open Records Act;
   (b)   Be available to assist the city and members of the general public to
resolve disputes relating the State Open Records Act;
   (c)   Respond to inquiries relating to the State Open Records Act; and
   (d)   Establish the requirements for the content, size, shape and other
physical characteristics of a brochure required to be displayed or distributed
or otherwise made available to the public under the State Open Records Act. In
establishing such requirements for the content of the brochure, the Local
Freedom of Information Officer shall include plainly written basic information
about the rights of a requester, the responsibilities of the city and the
procedures for inspecting and obtaining a copy of public records under the Act.
§ 1-604 PUBLIC REQUEST FOR ACCESS.
   All city offices keeping and maintaining open public records shall establish
office hours during which any person may make a request for access to an open
public record. Such hours shall be no fewer than the hours each business day
the office is regularly open to the public. For any city office not open Monday
through Friday, hours shall be established by the record custodian for each
such day at which time any person may request access to an open public record.
§ 1-605 FACILITIES FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   All city offices keeping and maintaining open public records shall provide
suitable facilities to be used by any person desiring to inspect and/or copy an
open public record. The office of the City Clerk, being the principal record-
keeper of the city, shall be used as the principal office for providing access
to and providing copies of open records to the maximum extent practicable.
Requesters of records shall be referred to the office of the City Clerk except
when the requested records are not in that office and are available in another
city office.
§ 1-606 PROCEDURES FOR INSPECTION.
   Any person requesting access to an open public record for purposes of
inspecting or copying such record, or obtaining a copy thereof, shall abide by
the procedures adopted by the governing body for record inspection and copying,
including those procedures established by record custodians as authorized by
the governing body. Such procedures shall be posted in each city office keeping
and maintaining open public records.
§ 1-607 OFFICIAL CUSTODIANS.
   The following city officers are the official custodians for purposes of the
State Open Records Act and are hereby charged with responsibility for
compliance with that Act with respect to the hereinafter listed public records:
   (a)   City Clerk. All public records kept and maintained in the City Clerk’s
office and all other public records not provided for elsewhere in this section;
   (b)   City Accountant. All public records not on file in the office of the
City Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Accountant’s office;
   (c)   City Attorney. All public records not on file in the office of the
City Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Attorney’s office; and
   (d)   Clerk of the Municipal Court. All public records not on file in the
office of the City Clerk and kept and maintained in the Municipal Court.
§ 1-608 APPOINTMENT OF LOCAL FREEDOM OF INFORMATION OFFICER.
   The person designated by the city is hereby appointed as the Local Freedom
of Information Officer and charged with all of the duties as set forth in §
1-603.
§ 1-609 DESIGNATION OF ADDITIONAL RECORD CUSTODIANS.
   (a)   Each of the official custodians appointed in §
1-607 is hereby authorized to designate any subordinate officers or employees
to serve as record custodian. Such record custodians shall have such duties and
powers as are set out in the State Open Records Act.
   (b)   Whenever an official custodian shall appoint another person as a
record custodian he or she shall notify the City Clerk of such designation and
the City Clerk shall maintain a register of all such designations.
§ 1-610 REQUESTS TO BE DIRECTED TO CUSTODIANS.
   (a)   All members of the public, in seeking access to, or copies of, a
public record in accordance with the provisions of the State Open Records Act,
shall address their requests to the custodian charged with responsibility for
the maintenance of the record sought to be inspected or copied.
   (b)   Whenever any city officer or employee appointed or designated as a
custodian under this article is presented with a request for access to, or copy
of, a public record which record the custodian does not have in his or her
possession and for which he or she has not been given responsibility to keep
and maintain, the custodian shall so advise the person requesting the record.
Further, the person making the request shall be informed as to which custodian
the request should be addressed to, if such is known by the custodian receiving
the request.
§ 1-611 FEE ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Clerk is hereby authorized to provide the Clerk’s office, and the
office of each record custodian, with sufficient cash to enable the making of
change for record fee purposes. Each custodian shall transmit all record fee
monies collected to the City Accountant not less than monthly. Each custodian
shall maintain duplicates of all records and copy request forms, completed as
to the amount of fee charged and collected, which amounts shall be periodically
audited by the Clerk-Finance Officer and Accountant of the city.
§ 1-612 INSPECTION FEE.
   (a)   Where a request has been made for inspection of any open public record
which is readily available to the record custodian, there shall be no
inspection fee charged to the requester.
   (b)   In all cases not covered by division (a) above, a record inspection
fee shall be charged, at the rate, as set by the governing body, per hour per
employee engaged in the record search. A minimum charge, as set by the
governing body, shall be charged for each such request.
§ 1-613 COPYING FEE.
   (a)   A fee, as set by the governing body, shall be charged for photocopying
public records, such fee to cover the cost of labor, materials and equipment.
   (b)   For copying any public records which cannot be reproduced by the
city’s photocopying equipment, the requester shall be charged the actual cost
to the city, including staff time, in reproducing such records.
§ 1-614 PREPAYMENT OF FEES.
   (a)   A record custodian may demand prepayment of the fees established by
this article whenever he or she believes this to be in the best interest of the
city. The prepayment amount shall be an estimate of the inspection and/or
copying charges accrued in fulfilling the record request. Any overage or
underage in the prepayment shall be settled prior to inspection of the
requested record or delivery of the requested copies.
   (b)   Prepayment of inspection and/or copying fees shall be required
whenever, in the best estimate of the record custodian, such fees are estimated
to exceed a fee, as set by the governing body.
   (c)   Where prepayment has been demanded by the record custodian, no record
shall be made available to the requester until such prepayment has been made.
§ 1-615 PAYMENT.
   All fees charged under this article shall be paid to the custodian of the
records inspected and/or copied unless the requester has established an
account, for purposes of billing and payment, with the city.
ARTICLE 7: INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS
Section
   
1-701   Purpose and goals
   
1-702   Active funds; designation of depositories; eligible depositories
   
1-703   Definitions
   
1-704   Investment of idle funds
   
1-705   Procedures and restrictions
   
1-706   Custody and safekeeping
   
1-707   Sale or transfer
   
1-708   Interest on time deposits
§ 1-701 PURPOSE AND GOALS.
   (a)   It is the purpose of this statement to set forth the public policies
of the city relating to the investment of public monies, and establish
procedural requirements as to investment management practice.
   (b)   The objective of the investment policy and program of the city shall
be as follows.
      (1)   The safeguarding of all public monies shall be of the highest
priority. Public money shall not be invested or managed in any matter which
would jeopardize the safety of the principal.
      (2)   Consistent with the requirement of safety, the objective of the
investment program shall be to aggressively manage and invest all public monies
to maximize net earnings, consistent with the public responsibility to secure
maximum, safe investment return possible from monies assigned to its
stewardship, to relieve demands on the property tax, and to otherwise reduce
the cost of public services.
§ 1-702 ACTIVE FUNDS; DESIGNATION OF DEPOSITORIES; ELIGIBLE DEPOSITORIES.
   (a)   The governing body shall designate the banks, savings and loan
associations and savings banks which shall serve as depositories of its funds.
The Clerk, Accountant or other city officer or employee having the custody of
city funds shall deposit such funds only at the designated banks, savings and
loan associations and savings banks. Only banks, savings and loan associations
and savings banks that have main or branch offices in the county shall be
designated as official depositories. No such bank, savings bank or savings and
loan association shall be designated as a depository until the city is assured
that it can obtain satisfactory security for its deposits.
   (b)   The Clerk, Accountant or other city officer or employee depositing
public funds shall deposit all such public funds coming into such person’s
possession in his, her or their name and official title as such officer. If the
governing body fails to designate an official depository or depositories, the
officer thereof having custody of city funds shall deposit such funds with one
or more banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks which have main
or branch offices in the county if satisfactory security can be obtained
therefor and if not then elsewhere. In such event, the officer or employee
shall serve notice in writing on the governing body showing the names and
locations of such banks, savings and loan associations and savings banks where
such funds are deposited, and upon so doing, the officer or employee having
custody of such funds shall not be liable for the loss of any portion thereof
except for official misconduct or for the misappropriation of such funds by the
officer or employee.
   (c)   If eligible banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks
under divisions (a) or (b) above cannot or will not provide an acceptable bid,
which shall include services for the depositing of public funds under this
section, then banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks that have
main or branch offices in any immediately adjoining county may receive deposits
of the city’s active funds, if such banks, savings and loan associations or
savings banks have been designated as official depositories under division (a)
above and the city can obtain satisfactory security therefor.
§ 1-703 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BANK. Any bank incorporated under the laws of the state or any other state,
or organized under the laws of the United States and which has a main or branch
office in the state.
   BRANCH. Any office within this state, other than the main office, that is
approved by a federal or state supervisory agency at which deposits are
received, checks paid or money lent. BRANCH does not include an automated
teller machine, remote service unit or similar device or a loan production
office.
   INVESTMENT RATE. A rate which is the equivalent yield for United States
government securities having a maturity date as published in the Wall Street
Journal, nearest the maturity date for equivalent maturities. The zero- to 90-
day rate shall be computed on the average effective federal funds rate as
published by the Federal Reserve System for the previous week.
   MAIN OFFICE. The place of business specified in the articles of association,
certificate of authority or similar document, where the business of the
institution is carried on and which is not a branch.
   SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION. Any savings and loan association incorporated
under the laws of the state or any other state, or organized under the laws of
the United States and which has a main or branch office in the state.
   SAVINGS BANK. Any savings bank organized under the laws of the United States
and which has a main or branch office in the state.
(K.S.A. 12-1675a)
§ 1-704 INVESTMENT OF IDLE FUNDS.
   Temporarily idle monies of the city not currently needed, may in accordance
with the procedure hereinafter described be invested:
   (a)   In temporary notes or no-fund warrants issued by the city;
   (b)   In savings deposits, demand deposits, time deposit, open accounts,
certificates of deposit or time certificates of deposit with maturities of not
more than two years:
      (1)   In banks, savings and loan associations and savings banks which
have main or branch offices located in the city; or
      (2)   If no main or branch office of a bank, savings and loan association
or savings bank is located in the city, then in banks, savings and loan
associations and savings banks, which have main or branch offices in the county
or counties in which all or part of the city is located.
   (c)   In repurchase agreements with:
      (1)   Banks, savings and loan associations and savings banks, which have
main or branch offices located in the city, for direct obligations of, or
obligations that are insured as to principal and interest by, the United States
government or any agency thereof;
      (2)   If no main or branch office of a bank, savings and loan association
or savings bank, is located in the city. If no such bank, savings and loan
association or savings bank having a main or branch office located in the city
is willing to enter into such an agreement with the city at an interest rate
equal to or greater than the investment rate, as defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g),
and amendments thereto, then such repurchase agreements may be entered into
with banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks which have main or
branch offices in the county or counties in which all or part of the city is
located; or
      (3)   If no bank, savings and loan association or savings bank, having a
main or branch office in such county or counties is willing to enter into such
an agreement with the city at an interest rate equal to or greater than the
investment rate, as defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto, then
such repurchase agreements may be entered into with banks, savings and loan
associations or savings banks located within the state.
   (d)   In direct obligations of or obligations that are insured as to
principal and interest by the United States or any agency thereof, not
including mortgage-backed securities with maturities as the governing body
shall determine, but not exceeding two years. Such investment transactions
shall only be conducted with banks, savings and loan associations and savings
banks; the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, Missouri; or with primary
government securities dealers which report to the market report division of the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or any broker-dealer engaged in the business
of selling government securities which is registered in compliance with the
requirements of §§ 15 or 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
registered pursuant to K.S.A. 17-12a401, and amendments thereto;
   (e)   In the Municipal Investment Pool Fund established in K.S.A. 12-1677a,
and amendments thereto;
   (f)   In the investments authorized and in accordance with the conditions
prescribed in K.S.A. 12-1677b, and amendments thereto;
   (g)   In multiple municipal client investment pools managed by the trust
departments of banks which have main or branch offices located in county or
counties where city is located or with trust companies incorporated under the
laws of this state which have contracted to provide trust services under the
provisions of K.S.A. 9-2107, and amendments thereto, with banks which have main
or branch offices located in the county or counties in which the city is
located. Public monies invested under this division (g) shall be secured in the
same manner as provided for under K.S.A. 9-1402, and amendments thereto. Pooled
investments of public monies made by trust departments under this division (g)
shall be subject to the same terms, conditions and limitations as are
applicable to the municipal investment pool established by K.S.A. 12-1677a, and
amendments thereto;
   (h)   The investments authorized in divisions (d), (e), (f) or (g) above
shall be utilized only if the banks, savings and loan associations and savings
banks eligible for investments authorized in division (b) above, cannot or will
not make the investments authorized in division (b) above available to the city
at interest rates equal to or greater than the investment rate, as defined in
K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto; or
   (i)   In selecting a depository pursuant to division (b) above, if a bank,
savings and loan association or savings bank eligible for an investment deposit
thereunder has an office located in the city and such financial institution
will make such deposits available to the city at interest rates equal to or
greater than the investment rate, as defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and
amendments thereto, and such financial institution otherwise qualifies for such
deposit, the governing body shall select one or more of such eligible financial
institutions for deposit of funds pursuant to this section. If no such
financial institution qualifies for such deposits, the city shall select for
such deposits one or more eligible banks, savings and loan associations or
savings banks which have offices in the county or counties in which all or a
part of the city is located which will make such deposits available to the city
at interest rates equal to or greater than the investment rate, as defined in
K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto, and which otherwise qualify for
such deposits.
(K.S.A. 12-1675)
§ 1-705 PROCEDURES AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The City Clerk shall periodically report to the governing body as to the
amount of money available for investment and the period of time such amounts
will be available for investment, and shall submit such recommendations as
deemed necessary for the efficient and safe management of city finances. The
recommendations of the City Clerk shall provide for an investment program which
shall so limit the amounts invested and shall schedule the maturities of
investments so that the city will, at all times, have sufficient monies
available on demand deposit to assure prompt payment of all city obligations.
§ 1-706 CUSTODY AND SAFEKEEPING.
   Securities purchased pursuant to this article shall be under the care of the
person designated by the city and shall be held in the custody of a state or
national bank or trust company, or shall be kept by such officers in a safety
deposit box of the city in a bank or trust company. Securities in the original
or receipt form held in the custody of a bank or trust company shall be held in
the name of the city, and their redemption, transfer or withdrawal shall be
permitted only upon the written instruction of the city officers. Securities
not held in the custody of a bank or trust company shall be personally
deposited by such officer in a safety deposit box in the name of the city in a
bank or trust company, access to which shall be permitted only in the personal
presence and under the signature of two of the abovementioned officers.
§ 1-707 SALE OR TRANSFER.
   If, in order to maintain sufficient monies on demand deposit in any fund as
provided in §
1-705, it becomes necessary to transfer or sell any securities of such funds,
the officers specified in §
1-706 may transfer said securities to any other fund or funds in which there
are temporarily idle monies, or shall sell such securities, and for such
purpose they shall have authority to make any necessary written direction,
endorsement or assignment for and on behalf of the city.
§ 1-708 INTEREST ON TIME DEPOSITS.
   The City Clerk shall deposit the interest earned on invested idle funds to
the General Fund, unless otherwise required or authorized by law.
ARTICLE 8: FINANCES AND REVENUE
Section
   
1-801   Capital Improvements Fund
   
1-802   Reserved
   
1-803   Intangibles tax
   
1-804   City retailers’ sales tax
   
1-805   Funding needs for the county 1% sales tax
§ 1-801 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS FUND.
   (a)   Fund established. In accordance with the provisions of the K. S. A.
12-1,118, there is hereby established a Capital Improvements Fund which shall
be used by the city to finance, in whole or in part, any public improvement
need set forth in the city’s capital improvement plan.
   (b)   Policy objective. It is the policy objective of the governing body
that such Fund shall be used primarily to provide a financing mechanism for the
repair, restoration and rehabilitation of existing public facilities. Further,
it is the intent of the governing body to utilize current revenues to be
credited to the Fund, to the maximum extent possible to meet the city’s present
and future public infrastructure needs and to avoid the costs of unnecessary
indebtedness.
   (c)   Use for studies. Monies in such Fund may be used to pay the cost of
engineering and other advanced public improvement plans and studies, with the
Fund periodically reimbursed from bond proceeds, special assessments or state
or federal aid that may be available for the completed project.
   (d)   Plan of operation.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall submit to the governing body a plan of
operation for the implementation of this section. Such plan shall provide that
the annual, revised and adopted capital improvements plan of the city,
identifying those improvements to be financed from the Fund during the
following year.
      (2)   Beginning in 1988, the City Clerk shall annually submit, at the
same time and as a part of the annual operating budget, such proposed revenue
allocations and budget transfers as may be necessary to:
         (A)   Finance those improvements scheduled for completion next year,
the cost of which is to be credited to the Fund, as provided by the capital
improvements plan; and
         (B)   Set aside monies to be annually reserved for future
improvements, as provided in the capital improvements plan.
   (e)   Investing. Monies in the Capital Improvements Fund shall be invested
in accordance with the provisions of K.S.A. 10-131 and amendments thereto, with
interest thereon credited to such fund.
(Ord. 590, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 1-802 RESERVED.
§ 1-803 INTANGIBLES TAX.
   (a)   Definitions.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         MONEY. Includes gold and silver coin, United States treasury notes and
other forms of currency in common use.
         NOTES AND OTHER EVIDENCES OF DEBT. Certificates evidencing shares of
stock otherwise taxable to the owner or holder, notes, bonds, debentures,
claims secured by deed, liquidated claims and demands for money, accounts
receivable and all written instruments, contracts or other writings evidencing,
calling for, fixing or showing a fixed obligation, determined or determinable,
at present or in the future, in favor of the holder thereof.
      (2)   Provided, that nothing contained in this section shall mean or
include oil or gas leases or any interests created thereby or arising
therefrom, or shall mean or include any royalty interests in oil or gas.
   (b)   Exemption from intangibles tax. It is hereby elected that no tax shall
be levied for the benefit of the city upon money, notes and other evidences of
debt, having a tax situs within the city.
(Ord. 531, passed 5-5-1980)
§ 1-804 CITY RETAILERS’ SALES TAX.
   (a)   A majority of the electors voting thereon having approved, at a
special question election held on November 5, 2002 the levying of a retailer’s
sales tax in the city, for the purpose of updating and maintaining the city
lagoon system and any other waste water related issues, as authorized by K.S.A.
12-187 et seq., as amended, there is hereby levied a city retailer’s sales tax
in the amount of 1% to take effect on April 1, 2003.
   (b)   Except as may otherwise be provided by law, such tax shall be
identical in its application and exemptions therefrom to the Kansas Retailer’s
Sales Tax Act and all laws and administrative rules and regulations of the
Kansas Department of Revenue relating to the state may be made applicable. The
services of the Department of Revenue shall be utilized to administer, enforce
and collect such tax.
(Ord. 669, passed 11-16-2002)
§ 1-805 FUNDING NEEDS FOR THE COUNTY 1% SALES TAX.
   (a)   The City of Linwood has identified funding needs for the countywide
retailers' sales tax of 1% effective for a period of ten years commencing
January 1, 2025 and expiring December 31, 2034.
   (b)   The City of Linwood proposes to use their share of the countywide 1%
sales tax for updating and maintaining the lagoons and any other water-related
issues.
(Ord. 708-2014, passed 9-16-2014; Ord. 742-2024, passed 9-17-2024)
CHAPTER II: ANIMAL CONTROL AND REGULATION
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
2-101   Definitions
   
2-102   Authority to enforce
   
2-103   Care of animals
   
2-104   Dogs running at large; prohibited
   
2-105   Dogs and cats in heat
   
2-106   Dogs or other animals putting persons in fear
   
2-107   Excessive animal noise
   
2-108   Limitation on number of dogs and cats
   
2-109   Dangerous dogs
   
2-110   Animals in government buildings
   
2-111   Specific breeds prohibited
   
2-112   Abuse to animals forbidden
   
2-113   Keeping of pet animals other than dogs and cats
   
2-114   Keeping of livestock and certain other animals (areas zoned
agricultural only)
   
2-115   Keeping of poultry/fowl
   
2-116   Dog and cat identification
   
2-117   Disposition of impounded animals
   
2-118   Animal bites and disease control
   
2-119   Mandatory spay and neuter of cats
   
2-120   Penalties
   
2-121   Kennels and foster homes
§ 2-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE CARE. Normal and prudent attention to the needs of an animal,
including that care which is normally necessary to maintain good health in a
specific species of animal.
   ADEQUATE CONTROL. Normal and prudent attention to the needs of an animal,
including that care which is normally necessary to maintain good health in a
specific species of animal.
   ADEQUATE FOOD. Wholesome foodstuffs suitable for the species provided at
suitable intervals in a sanitary manner in quantities sufficient to maintain
good health in an animal considering its age and condition.
   ADEQUATE HEALTH CARE. The provision to each healthy animal of all
immunizations and preventive care required to maintain good health; space
adequate to allow the animal rest and exercise sufficient to maintain good
health, and, the provision to each sick, diseased or injured animal of
necessary veterinary care or humane death.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. A structurally sound, properly ventilated, sanitary and
weatherproof shelter suitable for the species, condition and age of the animal
which provides access to shade from direct sunlight and regress from exposure
to inclement weather conditions.
   ADEQUATE WATER. A constant access to or access at suitable intervals to a
supply of clean, fresh, potable water provided in a sanitary manner suitable
for the species, condition and age of the animal in sufficient amounts to
maintain good health in the animal.
   ANIMAL. Any live, vertebrate creature, domestic or wild, other than a human.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The facility or facilities operated by the city or its
designated authority for impounding or caring for animals held under the
authority of this article or state law.
   CAT. The term cat shall apply to any domestic feline animal (Felis
Domesticus) male, female, sexed or neutered.
   COMMUNITY CAT. A member of the cat family that is unsocialized and exhibits
extreme fear of people; exhibited by a straightline cutting of the tip of the
ear.
   DOG. Applies to any domestic canine animal (Canis Familiaris) male or
female, sexed or neutered. Any cross or hybrid, which is part dog and part wild
animal, shall be considered a wild animal for the purposes of this article.
   FARM ANIMAL. An animal raised on a farm or ranch and used or intended for
use in farm or ranch production as food or fiber.
   FOWL. Any and all fowl, domesticated and wild, male and female, singular and
plural.
   HARBOR. To exercise control over at the same location for three or more
consecutive days.
   HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal accomplished by a method
approved by the American Veterinary Medical Association Committee on
Euthanasia.
   OWNER. In addition to its ordinary meaning, also means any person over the
age of 18 who keeps or harbors any animal or professes to be owning, keeping,
or harboring any animal.
   PERMIT AUTHORITY. The City Clerk or duly designated by the city or its
designated authority.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, joint stock company, corporation,
association, trust, estate or other legal entity.
   PESTS. Birds, rabbits or rodents, which damage property or have an adverse
effect on the public health, not to include domestic animals such as dogs or
cats.
   PRIMARY ENCLOSURE. Any structure used to immediately restrict an animal or
animals to a limited amount of space, such as a room, pen, run, cage,
compartment, pool, hutch or shipping container.
   SANITARY. Clean and free from infectious or deleterious influences.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal, which is predominately free roaming as opposed to
domesticated and does not include community cats.
   VETERINARIAN. A person licensed by the state to engage in the practice of
veterinary medicine.
   VETERINARY MEDICAL CARE FACILITY. A facility, which has the primary function
of providing medical care for animals and is operated by a currently licensed
veterinarian.
§ 2-102 AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE.
   (a)   Enforcement. Except where otherwise provided, it shall be the duty of
the Director of the Permit Authority with the assistance of staff to administer
and enforce the provisions of this article.
   (b)   Obstructing permit authority. No person shall willfully obstruct
anyone with the authority to enforce who is engaged in the performance of
official duties from performing such official duties.
§ 2-103 CARE OF ANIMALS.
   (a)   Violations. It shall be a violation for any person owning, keeping,
harboring or otherwise in possession or control of any animal to fail to
provide any or all of the following to the animal:
      (1)   Adequate care;
      (2)   Adequate control;
      (3)   Adequate food;
      (4)   Adequate health care;
      (5)   Adequate shelter; or
      (6)   Adequate water.
   (b)   Care. The parent, guardian or other person having custody of a minor
child is responsible for the adequate care of any animal owned by, in the
control of or harbored by that minor child.
§ 2-104 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE; PROHIBITED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping or harboring any
dog to permit, suffer or allow said dog to run at large within the city. For
the purpose of this section, any dog shall be deemed to have been permitted,
suffered or allowed by its owner, keeper or harborer to run at large when found
outside of the residence structure of the owner, keeper or harborer and not
effectively physically restrained on a chain or leash or behind a suitable
fence or other proper method of physical restraint from which it cannot escape.
   (b)   A legally blind person using a “seeing eye dog” or a deaf person using
a “hearing dog” in the customary manner under Title II of the Americans With
Disabilities Act shall be deemed to be in compliance with division (a).
   (c)   Official use of dogs by any governmental unit shall be deemed in
compliance with division (a).
§ 2-105 DOGS AND CATS IN HEAT.
   The owner, keeper or person harboring any female dog or cat shall, during
the period that such animal is “in heat” (estrus), keep it securely confined
and enclosed within a building except when out upon such person’s premises
briefly for toilet purposes while on a leash or otherwise effectively
physically restrained and under supervision.
§ 2-106 DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS PUTTING PERSONS IN FEAR.
   No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog or other animal, which by
jumping upon or threatening persons upon public streets and sidewalks shall
cause persons to be put in fear of injury. This section shall apply to animals
while being walked on leashes.
§ 2-107 EXCESSIVE ANIMAL NOISE.
   No person shall own or keep any animal, which by making excessive noise
disturbs a neighborhood. The following definitions and conditions shall be
especially applicable to enforcement of the aforesaid prohibitions.
   (a)   Excessive noise shall mean and include any noise produced by an
animal, which is so loud, and continuous or untimely as to disturb a neighbor.
   (b)   Neighbor shall mean any individual residing in a residence structure
which is within 100 yards of the property on which the animal is kept or
harbored and who does in writing state that he or she will testify under oath
to said animal making excessive noise.
   (c)   If violation of this section results in a court appearance, a subpoena
shall also be issued to the neighbor so disturbed to testify in the matter.
§ 2-108 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS.
   It shall be unlawful and a public nuisance for any person in charge of a
residence to keep or allowed to keep three dogs and three cats over the age of
90 days at such residence.
   (a)   When animals in excess of the limit established are found at a
residence, all of the animals found at the residence may be removed to the
permit authority’s animal shelter to be handled as if stray animals except that
the person in charge of the residence, if present, may designate and retain up
the lawful amount.
   (b)   By keeping any dog or cat in the city, the keeper consents to the
limit in division (a) and to removal as in division (a).
§ 2-109 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (a)   Confinement. No other person shall own, keep, harbor or allow to be
upon any premises occupied by him or her or under his or her charge or control
any dog:
      (1)   With a known cross, dangerous or ferocious disposition; or
      (2)   Which has, without provocation, bitten any human within the prior
12 months, without such dog being confined behind a fence from which it cannot
escape and being securely chained in such a manner that the animal cannot range
within closer than three feet to the property line of the owner, keeper or
harborer.
   (b)   Placarding premises. When any dog is required by this section to be
confined it shall also be required that a conspicuous notice be posted at the
place of confinement of such a nature as to warn the public of the nature of
the dog therein confined. The notice shall consist of a sign that is at least
12" in width and 12" in length. Said sign shall have lettering which is clearly
legible and at least 3" high. The sign shall be constructed of durable material
and firmly affixed or anchored to the place of confinement.
   (c)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to any dog owned by a
governmental unit performing in its official duties.
   (d)   Violation; disposition of dog. Upon conviction of failure to comply
with any provision of this section, in addition to the usual judgment of
conviction, if it shall appear to the City Council or municipal judge that such
dog is not in compliance with this section, the Council or Judge may order the
dog out of the city limits or may refuse to issue a license for the dog.
   (e)   Euthanasia. If a dog deemed dangerous re-offends by putting someone in
fear (§
2-106) or biting someone, the City Council or Municipal Judge may order that
said dog be humanely killed and direct the permit authority to enforce that
order and the sheriff shall assist as may be requested by the permit authority.
Before such order, the dog owner is entitled to a euthanasia hearing before
City Council or Municipal Judge within 30 days of the date of the incident. The
hearing shall be conducted according to the rules of evidence.
§ 2-110 ANIMALS IN GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS.
   No person shall bring any animal into a governmental building except the
animal shelter without a specific governmental invitation to bring such animal
into such building. Although nothing in this article shall prevent a disabled
individual who uses an animal for assistance to bring the animal into any
public building.
§ 2-111 SPECIFIC BREEDS PROHIBITED.
   The City Council having found that certain specific breeds of dog are by
their nature of breeding prone to exhibit unpredictable and dangerous behavior,
and considers them wild animals, prohibits the following dogs within the city
limits: wolf hybrids (any dog that is part wolf).
§ 2-112 ABUSE TO ANIMALS FORBIDDEN.
   (a)   Injury prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall:
         (A)   Knowingly and maliciously kill, injure, maim, torture, burn or
mutilating any animal;
         (B)   Intentionally using a wire, pole, stick, rope or any other
object to cause an equine to lose its balance or fall, for the purpose of sport
or entertainment;
         (C)   Knowingly but not maliciously killing or injuring any animal; or
         (D)   Knowingly and maliciously administering any poison to any
domestic animal.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
         (A)   Normal or accepted veterinary practices;
         (B)   Bona fide experiments carried on by commonly recognized research
facilities;
         (C)   Killing, attempting to kill, trapping, catching or taking of any
wild animal or pest in accordance with this article or the provisions of K.S.A.
Chapter 32 or 47, and amendments thereto;
         (D)   Rodeo practices accepted by the Rodeo Cowboys’ Association;
         (E)   The humane killing of an animal by a law enforcement officer,
veterinarian, or humane society which is diseased or disabled beyond recovery
for any useful purpose, or by a licensed veterinarian at the request of the
owner thereof;
         (F)   With respect to farm animals, normal or accepted practices of
animal husbandry, including the normal and accepted practices for the slaughter
of such animals for food or by-products and the careful or thrifty management
of one’s herd or animals, including animal care practices common in the
industry or region;
         (G)   An animal control officer trained by a licensed veterinarian in
the use of a tranquilizer gun, using such gun with the appropriate dosage for
the size of the animal, when such animal is vicious or could not be captured
after reasonable attempts using other methods;
         (H)   Laying an equine down for medical or identification purpose; or
         (I)   Normal or accepted practices of pest control, as defined in
K.S.A. 2-2438a(x) and amendments thereto.
(K.S.A. 21-6412)
   (b)   Tethered animal requirements. No person shall leave any pet animal or
livestock unattended while tethered to any utility pole, parking meter,
building, structure, fence, sign, tree, shrub, bench or other object on public
property or on private property without the prior permission of the person or
agency in charge thereof, nor shall a pet animal be tethered in such a manner
as to permit it to intrude upon a public sidewalk or street. No person shall
leave any animal unattended on a balcony.
   (c)   Tethered animals to stationary objects. It shall be unlawful for any
person to tie or tether a dog or other animal to a stationary object for a
period of time or in a location so as to create an unhealthy situation for the
animal or a potentially dangerous situation for a pedestrian as determined by
the Animal Control Officer or permit authority.
   (d)   Rescue from vehicles. Whenever any animal is found confined in a motor
vehicle in a public place under weather conditions that endanger its life as
determined by the Director of Permit Authority, the Director of the Permit
Authority is hereby authorized, with assistance from the Sheriff which is
hereby authorized, to enter such vehicle to rescue such animal and impound it
in accordance with this article. A prominent written notice shall be left on or
in the vehicle advising that the animal has been removed under the authority of
this section and impounded in the permit authority’s animal shelter.
   (e)   Abandonment prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper
to abandon any animal. For the purpose of this section, to abandon means for
the owner or keeper to leave an animal, without demonstrated or apparent intent
to recover or resume custody or to leave an animal for more than 12 hours
without providing for adequate food, water and shelter for the duration of the
absence.
   (f)   Artificial stimulation prohibited. No person shall induce or encourage
any animal in an animal exhibition, rodeo or circus to perform through the use
of chemical, mechanical, electrical or manual devices in a manner which will
cause or is likely to cause physical injury or suffering.
§ 2-113 KEEPING OF PET ANIMALS OTHER THAN DOGS AND CATS.
   (a)   Dangerous animals. The keeping and harboring of dangerous animals
other than dogs within the city is hereby prohibited. Other than as to dogs
which are regulated by §§
2-104 through
2-111, the Director of the Permit Authority shall have the authority to declare
an animal dangerous because of past behavior, violations or the inherently
dangerous nature of the animal, as to humans. Such a declaration shall be
grounds for the impoundment and destruction of the animal unless, without
danger to the public, it can be and is removed from the city within 48 hours.
   (b)   Species limitation of house pets. Within any area of the city the
keeping or harboring of any poisonous or venomous animal or any warm blooded
carnivorous or omnivorous animal including but not limited to nonhuman
primates, raccoons, skunks, foxes, leopards, panthers, tigers and lions, but
excluding fowl, dogs, house cats and small rodents of varieties commonly kept
as household pets, such as rats, mice, gerbils, guinea pigs and hamsters is
hereby prohibited. Nonpoisonous snakes shall be kept in locked, escape-proof
cages except when being handled. No snake shall be permitted by the owner,
keeper or handler to escape from a cage or while being handled.
§ 2-114 KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK AND CERTAIN OTHER ANIMALS (AREAS ZONED
AGRICULTURAL ONLY).
   (a)   Pasturing livestock. No livestock (as used herein livestock includes,
but is not limited to the following animals: horses, mules, cattle, sheep,
goats, swine, and other farm animals) which are not otherwise prohibited, shall
be kept, maintained, pastured or fed within 200 feet of the nearest portion of
any building in any way used by human beings, other than the dwelling occupied
by the owner or keeper of any such animals; not more than two (each) of the
aforesaid animals shall be kept. Stables, coops, pens or other structures for
the housing of any of the aforementioned animals shall comply with all zoning
restrictions. The pasturing of livestock shall be permitted in any area
properly zoned for this purpose.
   (b)   Restraint of livestock. Livestock shall not be allowed to run at large
and when legally kept must be restrained in a manner and by such means as will
prevent such animals from escaping, straying or running at large. Gates used to
restrain livestock shall be kept closed with a chain and padlock to minimize
vandalism.
   (c)   Sanitation. All manure accumulations in the area where livestock and
other animals are kept shall be removed, stored or disposed of in such a manner
as to prevent attracting flies or the spread of disease.
   (d)   Compliance with law in keeping wild animals. Wild animals are strictly
prohibited.
§ 2-115 KEEPING OF POULTRY/FOWL.
   (a)   Location and restraint required. It shall be unlawful for any person
to keep or maintain any chicken coop closer than 25 feet to the nearest portion
of any building occupied by or in any way used by human beings, other than the
dwelling occupied by the owner or keeper of the poultry/fowl. Poultry/fowl so
kept or maintained shall be enclosed on all sides and shall not be allowed to
run or fly at large.
   (b)   Odors. Every coop or other yard establishment shall be kept so that no
offensive, disagreeable or noxious smell or odor shall arise therefrom to the
injury, annoyance or inconvenience of any inhabitants of the neighborhood.
   (c)   Disposal of manure. Every coop or the yard establishment shall be
provided with a watertight and fly tight receptacle for manure, of such
dimension as to contain all accumulations thereof, which receptacle shall be
emptied sufficiently often and in such manner as to prevent its becoming a
nuisance. Such receptacle shall be securely covered at all times, except when
open during deposit or removal of manure or refuse therefrom. No manure shall
be allowed to accumulate except in the receptacle. All such manure, when
removed from the receptacle, shall be buried within covering of not less than
six inches of earth, or if used as fertilizer, thoroughly spaded into the
ground, or shall be removed from the property.
   (d)   Maintenance of enclosures. All earthen yards or runways wherein
poultry/fowl are kept or permitted to be kept shall be spaded and then lined
once every three months from the month of April through the month of December.
For the purpose of killing flies and other insects, all structures or coops
wherein poultry/fowl are kept or permitted to be kept shall be sprayed with
such substances as will eliminate such insects.
   (e)   Condition of enclosure. Any structure, coop or yard wherein animals
are kept or permitted to be kept shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition, devoid of all rodents and vermin, and free from objectionable odors.
The enclosed area of all such structures shall be constructed in such a way as
to be dry at all times on the inside. The person maintaining any aforementioned
structure, coop or yard in the city does by such act of maintenance authorize
the permit authority to at any time inspect any such structure or premises and
issue any such order as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this
section.
   (f)   Number of animals, poultry/fowl. It shall be unlawful for any person
to keep or maintain any chicken coop closer than 25 feet to the nearest portion
of any building occupied by or in any way used by human beings, other than the
dwelling occupied by the owner or keeper of the poultry/fowl more than six
chickens. Absolutely no roosters allowed. Agriculturally zoned may apply for a
special permit to have up to 20 chickens, still no roosters allowed.
   (g)   Annual permit fee. It shall be the duty of every person owning,
keeping or harboring in the city any poultry/fowl to obtain a license from the
permit authority. The receipt issued for the license shall constitute a
certificate of registry and evidence of licensure for the keeping of such
poultry/fowl within the city. For the issuance of poultry/fowl license required
by this ordinance, the owner or keeper shall pay to the city such license fee
in the amount of $15 annually.
   (h)   Licensing period. The licensure evidenced by the certificate of
registry shall entitle an owner or caretaker to keep the poultry/fowl in the
city until May 31 next following the date of issuance of the poultry/fowl
permit.
§ 2-116 DOG AND CAT IDENTIFICATION.
   (a)   Impoundment and violation notice.
      (1)   Any animal at large in violation of this article may be taken by
the permit authority or animal control officer and impounded in the designated
holding place and be there confined in a humane manner pending further action
pursuant to this ordinance. If an owner or keeper is present and able to take
control of such animal, in lieu of impoundment, a ticket may be issued to that
person and person may retain possession of the animal if it is the belief of
the officer issuing such ticket that such possession is not in conflict with
any other provisions of this article.
      (2)   Whenever any animal is confined by authority of this article, it
shall be the duty of the permit authority to release the same upon satisfactory
proof that the party claiming the animal is entitled to possession thereof and
upon payment to the permit authority of all applicable fees required by this
article.
      (3)   Whenever an animal continues to run at large, and by all means
necessary has been unable to be controlled or seized by the permit authority or
animal control officer, said animal may be photographed in the act and
evidence, along with a warning ticket, shall be sent to said owner upon
verification of ownership. If the dog is photographed three or more times, a
ticket and fine will be issued. The defendant will be afforded an opportunity
to defend against the allegation at a hearing; which would include the offering
of any evidence the defendant believes may show that no violation occurred.
      (4)   A record of all dogs impounded shall be kept by the city containing
the following information: color, sex, identifying marks, registration number
(if any), date of impoundment and a photo if possible.
   (b)   Notification of capture and impoundment. After the impoundment of any
animal where a ticket has not been issued to the owner or keeper the permit
authority shall promptly notify the owner of such animal of its impoundment if
the owner can be determined and located by reasonable investigation; however,
no liability shall attach to the city or to the permit authority or staff for
failure to give such notice. The owner of an impounded animal who does not
redeem his or her animal shall still be proceeded against for violation of any
applicable provision(s) of this or any other applicable ordinance.
   (c)   License required for dogs and cats. It shall be the duty of every
person owning, keeping or harboring in the city any dog or cat which is over 90
days old or which is no longer with its dam to obtain a license from the permit
authority. The receipt issued for the license shall constitute a certificate of
registry and evidence of licensure for the keeping of such dog or cat within
the city. It shall be unlawful to possess any unlicensed dog or cat subject to
this division (c).
   (d)   Nonresidents or visiting animals. Any other section of this article
notwithstanding, the licensing provision of this article shall not apply to any
nonresident owner or keeper of a dog or cat while such nonresident is passing
through the city, provided such dog or cat shall remain on a leash or otherwise
effectively physically restrained as in a closed vehicle. Dogs and cats of
nonresidents need not be licensed during dog or cat shows or exhibitions.
Visiting animals shall be defined as those animals residing in the city for
less than 30 days.
   (e)   License fees. For the issuance of each dog and cat license required by
this article, the owner or keeper shall pay to the city such license fee in the
amount of $15. If a certificate signed by a licensed veterinarian attesting
that a dog or cat has been sterilized is submitted to the permit authority, a
reduced fee shall be paid in the amount of $10.
   (f)   Licensing period. The licensure evidenced by the certificate of
registry shall entitle an owner or keeper to keep the licensed dog or cat in
the city until May 31 next following the date of issuance of the dog and cat
license and certificate.
   (g)   Certificate of immunization; licensing prerequisite. Before the permit
authority issues any license or tag for a dog or cat, the owner or keeper
thereof shall file with the permit authority a certificate from a licensed
veterinarian showing the dog or cat was immunized against rabies. All dogs must
be immunized against distemper, hepatitis, and parvo pursuant to the DHLPP and
DHPP vaccination protocols of the American Veterinary Medical Association. All
cats must be immunized against feline panleukopenia pursuant to the FPV
vaccination protocols of the American Veterinary Medical Association. It is a
unlawful to possess a dog or a cat in the city limits that is not vaccinated.
The owner will also submit a signed certificate from a licensed veterinarian to
the permit authority as to whether or not a dog or cat has been sterilized if
it is desired to obtain a license at the lower rate applicable to sterilized
animals.
   (h)   Duties of veterinarian.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of each veterinarian, when vaccinating any dog
or cat to complete a certificate of rabies vaccination, in triplicate, for each
animal vaccinated. The certificate shall include the following information:
         (A)    Owner’s name and address;
         (B)    Description of dog or cat (breed, sex markings, age, name,
color);
         (C)   Date of vaccination and expiration (or renewal date);
         (D)    Rabies vaccination tag number;
         (E)   Type of rabies vaccine administered; and
         (F)   Manufacturer’s serial number of vaccine.
      (2)   Distribution of copies of the certificate shall be: the original
will be forwarded to the permit authority; the first copy will be given to the
owner and the issuing veterinarian will retain the second copy. Veterinarians
shall retain their copies for the interval between vaccinations.
   (i)   False certificate. It shall be a violation for any veterinarian to
prepare a veterinarian’s certificate required under this chapter by use of
information known by the veterinarian to be false. It shall be a violation for
any person to give false information to a veterinarian for use in the
veterinarian’s preparation of any veterinarian's certificate required under
this article.
   (j)   Records of dog and cat registration. The permit authority shall keep a
record giving the name and address of the owner or keeper of each licensed dog
or cat and the number of the license tag, together with a general description
of the dog and cat.
   (k)   License tags. At the time of the issuance of a license required by
this article, the permit authority shall deliver therewith a license tag
showing the registration number and expiration date of the license. The permit
authority shall furnish a first replacement license tag to any such owner or
keeper upon application, all future replacements will be charged $5.
   (l)   Wearing of license or identification tags required.
      (1)   No owner or keeper of any licensed dog or cat shall allow or permit
such dog or cat to be outside the residence structure of said owner or keeper
at any time other than when enclosed on all sides in a cage or covered run
without having attached to a collar about the neck of such animal or to a
secure body harness the license tag.
      (2)   No person shall remove, or caused to be removed, the collar,
harness or the license tag from any registered dog or cat without the consent
of the owner or keeper thereof.
§ 2-117 DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (a)   Retention period. All animals impounded for the first time shall be
kept for not more than 24 hours (first offense); animals picked up in each
succeeding offense will be taken directly to the city’s designated veterinarian
except:
      (1)   When given to be disposed of by the owner, keeper or harborer in
which case the animal shall be held until the next calendar day before
disposition.
      (2)   When an animal is picked up that is so sick or injured condition
that in the judgement of the permit authority or a licensed veterinarian human
compassion requires that the suffering be promptly ended; in such instance said
time period shall not apply and the animal will be humanely killed to prevent
needless suffering. All fees associated with the disposition of the animal
shall be assessed to the animal’s owner.
   (b)   Humane disposition. Whenever any animal shall remain in the place of
impoundment for a period longer than three days from the impounding of such
animal except those animals impounded for disease control observation, in which
case said period shall begin upon the expiration of the applicable observation
period the animal shall be disposed of in a humane manner by the designated
veterinarian or the animal may be adopted out by the designated veterinarian.
All fees associated with the disposition of the animal shall be assessed to the
animal’s owner.
   (c)   Conflict of interest. The permit authority nor the designee shall
dispose of any captured or impounded animal except through the procedures
provided for by this article.
   (d)   Adoption. All adoptions are done through the permit authority’s
designated veterinarian.
   (e)   Impoundment fees and owner identification.
      (1)   A $25 fee shall be charged when any dog or cat is picked up by the
permit authority and taken to the city’s designated place of impoundment. The
fee for the care of any dog or cat during the period of impoundment shall be at
the rate of $20 (actual rates will apply) for each day or portion of a day that
said dog or cat is impounded; provided, however, that such fee shall be
increased by the actual amount of any unusual expenses incurred either in the
impoundment or the care of said animal. An owner or keeper must pay these fees
in full to obtain custody of his or her animal, but such payment is not
required for animal adoption by a person from another household.
      (2)   Before animals are redeemed from the pound, said animal shall be
spayed or neutered, be currently vaccinated and be micro-chipped. This shall be
at the pet owner’s expense, prior to the animal’s release. All fees must be
paid to the City Clerk prior to picking up the animal(s).
§ 2-118 ANIMAL BITES AND DISEASE CONTROL.
   (a)   Domestic dog and cat bites resulting in human exposure to rabies.
      (1)   Any bite wound exposing an individual to the possibility of rabies
or other zoonotic disease (hereinafter “incident”) shall be immediately
reported to the police by the victim and by the owner, keeper or harborer of
the dog or cat if the incident is known to him or her. Any such dog or cat bite
which requires medical treatment shall be reported within 24 hours to the City
Clerk or Animal Control Officer.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of every owner or keeper of any dog or cat
upon receiving notice or having knowledge of the involvement of his or her pet
in a human exposure to the possibility of rabies or other zoonotic disease by
biting to immediately place such animal in a duly licensed veterinary medical
facility, or in a location recommended by the permit authority, where such
animal shall be isolated and confined for observation for ten consecutive days
from and including the day of the incident. It shall be unlawful for the owner,
keeper or person harboring the animal involved in such incident to release it
from his or her custody or to hide or conceal such animal or to take or allow
such animal to be taken beyond the limits of the city, unless so authorized by
the permit authority or designee, until the period or confinement and
observation here are completed. The owner or keeper of such animal involved in
an incident shall be liable for the cost of confinement and observation. The
death or any suspicious change in the health or behavior of any such dog or cat
undergoing observation shall be reported as soon as possible by the observing
authority to the permit authority or designee. The permit authority or designee
is hereby authorized to authorize confinement other than described above as he
or she finds medically appropriate, providing such animal will be controlled
and observed in accordance with the owner’s signed agreement, but only if such
dog or cat has been vaccinated for prevention of rabies and is duly licensed as
provided by the this article. Unless determined otherwise by the permit
authority or qualified designee, exceptions to the aforesaid confinement may be
granted for the following cases:
         (A)   Where a female dog is nursing un-weaned puppies or a female cat
is nursing un-weaned kittens.
         (B)    If the investigating officer determines both:
               (i)    That the incident occurred while the animal involved was
confined and legally kept upon the property of the owner.
               (ii)   That the person injured was upon the property without the
express or implied consent of the owner and was not there performing functions
of a job. However, if a person injured in an incident or his or her parent or
guardian in the case of a minor, desires that the animal be impounded even
though an exception to impoundment has been granted as aforesaid and agrees in
writing to pay for its board during the period of confinement, it shall be
impounded in the manner and for the period specified earlier, unless determined
otherwise by the Animal Control Officer or the designated authority upon review
of the facts and circumstances the incident.
   (b)   Dangerous animal investigation. If any dangerous, fierce or vicious
dog, cat or other animal believed involved in an incident (as the term
“incident” is used in definitions) cannot be safely captured or prevented from
escaping by usual means, such animal may be slain by a police officer or animal
control officer. In all cases where such animal may have exposed a person to
rabies and is slain before the completion of the observation period stipulated
for the species by the permit authority, it shall be the duty of the person
slaying such animal to forthwith deliver or cause to be delivered all the
remains of such animal including the undamaged head to the Animal Control
Officer. A departure from this procedure must be requested of and authorized by
the permit authority.
   (c)   Powers of Animal Control Officer. In the event that the Animal Control
Officer or the city’s designated authority determines that a rabies or other
zoonotic disease control emergency exists, she/he shall so declare, stating the
boundaries of the affected area and she/he is hereby empowered to issue
emergency regulations and take all necessary steps within the provisions of
this chapter and state law to abate the threat. Such emergency steps and
regulations shall be in effect only during the period of the declared
emergency.
   (d)   Disposal of waste. The owner or keeper of every animal, when such
animal is off the property controlled by the owner or keeper, shall be
responsible for the removal of any fecal matter before taking animal from the
immediate area where such excretion occurred.
   (e)   Dead animals. All dead animals shall be removed and legally disposed
of by the owner or proprietor of the premises within 12 hours after the death
of such animal. If not so removed, such animal shall be removed by the permit
authority at actual cost to the property owner or proprietor.
   (f)   Parasite control. No person shall offer for sale, sell or give away
any dog or cat unless such animal has been dewormed or certified in writing by
a duly licensed veterinarian to be free of intestinal helminths in order to
prevent the spread of such to other animals and humans.
§ 2-119 MANDATORY SPAY AND NEUTER OF CATS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to own, possess or keep in the city any cat over
the age of six months that has not been spayed or neutered.
   (b)   This section shall not apply:
      (1)   If a licensed veterinarian states in writing that a cat is unfit to
undergo the required surgical procedure because of risk to the cat’s health;
      (2)   If a cat is temporarily in the city to participate in a show or
sanctioned event; or
      (3)   If the cat is owned, possessed, or kept in the city for fewer than
30 days in a one-year period.
§ 2-120 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Any person violating any provision of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a violation and unless another specific penalty or specific penalty
range be provided by another division of this section, be punished by a fine of
not less than $75 nor more than $1,000, or by imprisonment for a term not to
exceed 180 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (b)   Any person violating any of the sections of this article shall be
sentenced according to the following schedule of fines with reference to
initial or subsequent violation of the particular section:
 
First offense                   $75
Second offense                  $125
Third offense                   $200
Fourth offense                  $400
Fifth or any subsequent offense $500
 
   (c)   Each day’s violation of, or failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with, any provision of this article, shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense. The same violation for more than one animal shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense as to each animal.
§ 2-121 KENNELS AND FOSTER HOMES.
   (a)   General provisions. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep,
operate or maintain a kennel without first obtaining a kennel permit.
Application for a kennel permit shall be filed with the City Clerk. The
application shall state the name of the person desiring to keep or maintain any
kennel, the location of the premises where the kennel is to be kept and
maintained and any other information that the city may desire. The application
shall be signed by the applicant and shall bear the date that application is
made. A kennel permit is not required for foster homes. A foster home shall
register once a year and show proof of association, licensing, or authorization
as a foster home from a state licensed pound or shelter to the City Clerk who
shall record the name, address, phone number and retain a copy of the proof
presented. Foster homes in residential areas shall not have more than seven
animals.
   (b)   Permit.  A kennel permit is required when a person shall have, hold,
or maintain a house more than a combined total of three dogs and three cats
over 90 days of age within the city. Applicants for a kennel license must meet
city zoning requirements.
   (c)   Fee. An annual fee established by the City Council shall be charged
for a kennel permit. No permit shall be transferable from one person to another
or from one premise to another.
   (d)   Notice. Any permit issued under this section may be canceled if the
holder fails to comply with any notice given to him or her pursuant to
violations to this section. No person who had a permit canceled shall be
permitted to make application for another permit within one month from the date
of the cancellation of a previous permit.
   (e)   State license. To obtain a kennel permit through the city, applicant
must hold and maintain a valid Rescue Network License through the Kansas
Department of Agriculture. Should the permit holder allow their Rescue Network
License to expire or otherwise become invalid, so shall the permit through the
city.
   (f)   Spay/neutered requirements. All animals held on the premises shall be
spayed or neutered so as to not allow breeding. If permit holder is found to be
breeding animals, that shall constitute an immediate revocation of the city
issued permit.
   (g)   Ordinances and codes. The permit holder must abide by all city
ordinances and codes. Should there be any founded complaints or violations,
this shall constitute a review of the city issued permit.
   (h)   Registration.  Animals that remain on premises for more than 30 days
will be required to be registered through the city at a cost of $7.50 per
spayed and neutered animal and $15 per unaltered animal.
(Ord. 713-A-2020, passed 2-4-2020)
CHAPTER III: BEVERAGES
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES
      
3.   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
      
4.   PRIVATE CLUBS
      
5.   DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS
      
6.   CATERERS
      
7.   TEMPORARY PERMITS
      
8.   SPECIAL EVENT CMB PERMITS
      
9.   KEG REGISTRATION
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
3-101   Definitions
   
3-102   Restriction on location
   
3-103   Minors on premises
   
3-104   Consumption on public property
   
3-105   Public sale; consumption
   
3-106   Consumption while driving
   
3-107   Identification card
§ 3-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol, but does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Alcohol, spirits, wine, beer and every liquid or solid,
patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable of being
consumed as a beverage by a human being, but shall not include any cereal malt
beverage.
   CATERER. An individual, partnership or corporation which sells alcoholic
liquor by the individual drink, and provides services related to the serving
thereof, on unlicensed premises which may be open to the public, but does not
include a holder of a temporary permit selling alcoholic liquor in accordance
with the terms of such permit.
   CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE. Any fermented but undistilled liquor brewed or made
from malt or from a mixture of malt or malt substitute, but does not include
any such liquor which is more than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   CLASS A CLUB. A premises which is owned or leased by a corporation,
partnership, business trust or association and which is operated thereby as a
bona fide nonprofit social, fraternal or war veterans’ club, as determined by
the state, for the exclusive use of the corporate stockholders, partners, trust
beneficiaries or associates (hereinafter referred to as members), and their
families and guests accompanying them.
   CLASS B CLUB. A premises operated for profit by a corporation, partnership
or individual, to which members of such club may resort for the consumption of
food or alcoholic beverages and for entertainment.
   CLUB. A Class A or Class B club.
   DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT. Premises which may be open to the general public,
where alcoholic liquor by the individual drink is sold.
   GENERAL RETAILER. A person who has a license to sell cereal malt beverages
at retail.
   LIMITED RETAILER. A person who has a license to sell cereal malt beverages
at retail only in original and unopened containers and not for consumption on
the premises.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any place at which cereal malt beverages, or alcoholic
beverages, or both are sold.
   TEMPORARY PERMIT. A permit, issued in accordance with the laws of the state,
which allows the permit holder to offer for sale, sell and serve alcoholic
liquor for consumption on unlicensed premises, open to the public.
   WHOLESALER or DISTRIBUTOR. Any individuals, firms, co-partnerships,
corporations and associations which sell or offer for sale any beverage
referred to in this chapter, to persons, co-partnerships, corporations and
associations authorized by this chapter to sell cereal malt beverages at
retail.
§ 3-102 RESTRICTION ON LOCATION.
   (a)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold or served by a person holding a
license or permit from the city whose place of business or other premises are
located within 200 feet of any (church, school, nursing home, library,
hospital, said distance to be measured from the nearest property line of such
church, school, nursing home, library, hospital), to the nearest portion of the
building occupied by the premises.
   (b)   The distance location of division (a) above shall not apply to a club,
drinking establishment, caterer or temporary permit holder when the license or
permit applicant petitions for and receives a waiver of the distance limitation
from the governing body. The governing body shall grant such a waiver only
following public notice and hearing and a finding by the governing body that
the proximity of the establishment is not adverse to the public welfare or
safety.
   (c)   No license or permit shall be issued for the sale of alcoholic liquor
if the building or use does not meet the zoning ordinance requirements of the
city or conflicts with other city laws, including building and health codes.
§ 3-103 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
remain on any premises where the sale of alcoholic liquor is licensed for on-
premises consumption, or where a caterer or temporary permit holder is serving
alcoholic liquor.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for the operator, person in charge, or licensee
of any premises licensed for on-premises consumption of alcoholic liquor or a
caterer or temporary permit holder who is serving alcoholic liquor to permit
any person under the age of 21 years to remain on the premises.
   (c)   This section shall not apply if the person under the age of 21 years
is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or if the licensed or
permitted premises derive not more than 30% of its gross receipts in each
calendar year from the sale of alcoholic liquor for on-premises consumption.
§ 3-104 CONSUMPTION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall drink or consume any alcoholic liquor on city owned public
property. However, this prohibition shall not apply to property owned by the
city, as designated by the city.
(K.S.A. 41-719)
§ 3-105 PUBLIC SALE; CONSUMPTION.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, serve or dispense any
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic beverage in any public place not licensed to
sell, serve or dispense such beverage at such public place within or under the
jurisdiction of the city.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or consume any cereal
malt beverage or alcoholic beverage in any public place not licensed to sell
and serve such beverage for public consumption at such public place within or
under the jurisdiction of the city.
   (c)   For purposes of this section, the term PUBLIC PLACE shall include upon
any street, public thoroughfare, public parking lot or any privately-owned
parking area made available to the public generally, within any parked or
driven motor vehicle situated in any of the aforesaid places or upon any
property owned by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless such
property is leased to others under K.S.A. 12-1740 et seq., if the property is
being used for hotel or motel purposes or purposes incidental thereto or is
owned or operated by an airport authority created pursuant to K.S.A. Ch. 27.
(K.S.A. 41-719)
§ 3-106 CONSUMPTION WHILE DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any cereal malt beverage or
alcoholic beverage while operating any vehicle upon any street or highway.
(K.S.A. 8-1599, 41-719)
§ 3-107 IDENTIFICATION CARD.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Display, cause or permit to be displayed, or have in possession,
any fictitious, fraudulently altered or fraudulently obtained identification
card for purposes relating to the sale, purchase or consumption of either
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor;
      (2)   Display or represent any identification card not issued to such
person as being his or her card for purposes relating to the sale, purchase or
consumption of either cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor;
      (3)   Permit any unlawful use of an identification card issued to a
person for purposes relating to the sale, purchase or consumption of either
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor; and
      (4)   Photograph, photostat, duplicate or in any way reproduce any
identification card or facsimile thereof in such a manner that it could be
mistaken for a valid identification card or display or have in possession any
such photograph, photostat, duplicate, reproduction or facsimile for purposes
relating to the sale, purchase or consumption of either cereal malt beverage or
alcoholic liquor.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Lend any identification card to or knowingly permit the use of any
identification card by any person under 21 years of age for use in the sale,
purchase or consumption of any alcoholic liquor; or
      (2)   Lend any identification card to or knowingly permit the use of any
identification card by any person under 21 years of age for use in the sale,
purchase or consumption of any cereal malt beverage.
ARTICLE 2: CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES
Section
   
3-201   License required of retailers
   
3-202   Application
   
3-202A   License application procedures
   
3-203   License granted; denied
   
3-204   License to be posted
   
3-205   License, disqualification
   
3-206   Restriction upon location
   
3-207   License fee
   
3-208   Suspension of license
   
3-209   License suspension/revocation by governing body
   
3-210   Same; appeal
   
3-211   Change of location
   
3-212   Wholesalers and/or distributors
   
3-213   Business regulations
   
3-214   Prohibited conduct on premises
   
3-215   Sanitary conditions required
   
3-216   Minors on premises
§ 3-201 LICENSE REQUIRED OF RETAILERS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell any cereal malt beverage
at retail without a license for each place of business where cereal malt
beverages are to be sold at retail.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person, having a license to sell cereal
malt beverages at retail only in the original and unopened containers and not
for consumption on the premises, to sell any cereal malt beverage in any other
manner.
(K.S.A. 41-2702)
§ 3-202 APPLICATION.
   (a)   Any person desiring a license shall make an application to the
governing body of the city and accompany the application by the required
license fee for each place of business for which the person desires the
license.
   (b)   The application shall be verified, and upon a form prepared by the
Attorney General of the state, and shall contain:
      (1)   The name and residence of the applicant and how long he or she has
resided within the state;
      (2)   The particular place for which a license is desired;
      (3)   The name of the owner of the premises upon which the place of
business is located;
      (4)   The names and addresses of all persons who hold any financial
interest in the particular place of business for which a license is desired;
      (5)   A statement that the applicant is a citizen of the United States
and not less than 21 years of age and that he or she has not within two years
immediately preceding the date of making application been convicted of a felony
or any crime involving moral turpitude, or been adjudged guilty of drunkenness,
or driving a motor vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
the violation of any other intoxicating liquor law of any state or of the
United States;
      (6)   Each application for a general retailer’s license shall be
accompanied by a certificate certifying that he or she has inspected the
premises to be licensed and that the same comply with the provisions of Ch.
VIII of this code; and
      (7)   Each application for a general retailer’s license must be
accompanied by a certificate from the Fire Department certifying that he or she
has inspected the premises to be licensed and that the same comply with the
provisions of Ch. VII of this code.
   (c)   The application shall be accompanied by a statement, signed by the
applicant, authorizing any governmental agency to provide the city with any
information pertinent to the application. One copy of such application shall
immediately be transmitted to city for investigation of the applicant. It shall
be the duty of the city to investigate such applicant to determine whether he
or she is qualified as a licensee under the provisions of this chapter. The
Chief shall report to the person designated by the city not later than five
working days subsequent to the receipt of such application. The application
shall be scheduled for consideration by the governing body at the earliest
meeting consistent with current notification requirements.
§ 3-202A LICENSE APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (a)   All applications for a new and renewed cereal malt beverage license
shall be submitted to the City Clerk ten days in advance of the governing body
meeting at which they will be considered.
   (b)   The City Clerk’s office shall notify the applicant of an existing
license 30 days in advance of its expiration.
   (c)   The Clerk’s office shall provide copies of all applications to the
County Health Department when they are received. The city will run a records
check on all applicants and will inspect the premises in accord with Chs. VII
and VIII of this code. The city will then recommend approval, or disapproval,
of applications within five working days of the receipt of the application.
   (d)   The governing body will not consider any application for a new or
renewed license that has not been submitted ten days in advance and been
reviewed by the above city departments.
   (e)   An applicant who has not had a cereal malt beverage license in the
city shall attend the governing body meeting when the application for a new
license will be considered.
§ 3-203 LICENSE GRANTED; DENIED.
   (a)   The journal of the governing body shall show the action taken on the
application.
   (b)   If the license is granted, the City Clerk shall issue the license
which shall show the name of the licensee and the year for which issued.
   (c)   No license shall be transferred to another licensee.
   (d)   If the license shall be denied, the license fee shall be immediately
returned to the person who has made application.
§ 3-204 LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   Each license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the place of business
for which the license is issued.
§ 3-205 LICENSE, DISQUALIFICATION.
   No license shall be issued to:
   (a)   A person who has not been a resident in good faith of the state for at
least one year immediately preceding application and a resident of the county
for at least six months prior to filing of such application;
   (b)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (c)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides;
   (d)   A person who, within two years immediately preceding the date of
making application, has been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral
turpitude, or has been adjudged guilty of drunkenness or driving a motor
vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or the violation of
any other intoxicating liquor law of any state or of the United States;
   (e)   A partnership, unless all the members of the partnership shall
otherwise be qualified to obtain a license;
   (f)   A corporation if any manager, officer or director thereof or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of such
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason
other than non-residence within the city or county;
   (g)   A corporation, if any manager, officer or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of such
corporation, has been an officer, manager or director, or a stockholder owning
in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock, of a corporation which:
      (1)   Has had a retailer’s license revoked under K.S.A. 41-2708, and
amendments thereto; or
      (2)   Has been convicted of a violation of the Drinking Establishment Act
or the cereal malt beverage laws of this state.
   (h)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee;
   (i)   A person whose spouse would be ineligible to receive a retailer’s
license for any reason other than citizenship, retailer residency requirements
or age, except that this division (i) shall not apply in determining
eligibility for a renewal license; or
   (j)   A person whose spouse has been convicted of a felony or other crime
which would disqualify a person from licensure under this section and such
felony or other crime was committed during the time that the spouse held a
license under the Cereal Malt Beverage Act.
(K.S.A. 41-2703)
§ 3-206 RESTRICTION UPON LOCATION.
   (a)   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any cereal malt
beverage on premises which are located in areas not zoned for such purpose.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful to sell or dispense at retail any cereal malt
beverage at any place within the city limits that is within a 200-foot radius
of any church, school or library.
   (c)   Provisions of this section shall not apply to any establishment
holding a private club license issued by the state.
   (d)   The distance limitation of division (b) above shall not apply to any
establishment holding a cereal malt beverage license issued by the city when
the licensee has petitioned for and received a waiver of the distance
limitation. The governing body shall grant such a waiver only following public
notice and hearing.
(K.S.A. 41-2704)
§ 3-207 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   The rules and regulations regarding license fees shall be as follows:
      (1)   General retailer. For each place of business selling cereal malt
beverages at retail for consumption on premises shall be $200 per calendar
year; and
      (2)   Limited retailer. For each place of business selling only at retail
cereal malt beverages in original and unopened containers and not for
consumption on the premises shall be $75 per calendar year.
   (b)   Full amount of the license fee shall be required regardless of the
time of the year in which the application is made, and the licensee shall only
be authorized to operate under the license for the remainder of the calendar
year in which the license is issued.
(K.S.A. 41-2702) (Ord. 582-A-09, passed - -2009)
§ 3-208 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   The person designated by the city, upon five days’ written notice, shall
have the authority to suspend such license for a period not to exceed 30 days,
for any violation of the provisions of this chapter or other laws pertaining to
cereal malt beverages, which violation does not in his or her judgment justify
a recommendation of revocation. The licensee may appeal such order of
suspension to the governing body within seven days from the date of such order.
§ 3-209 LICENSE SUSPENSION/REVOCATION BY GOVERNING BODY.
   (a)   (1)   The governing body of the city, upon five days’ written notice,
to a person holding a license to sell cereal malt beverages may permanently
revoke or cause to be suspended for a period of not more than 30 days such
license for any of the following reasons:
         (A)   The licensee has violated any provisions of K.S.A. 41-2701 et
seq., and amendments thereto, or any rules or regulations of the city;
         (B)   Drunkenness of the licensee or permitting any intoxicated person
to remain in or upon the licensee’s place of business;
         (C)   The sale of cereal malt beverages to any person under 21 years
of age;
         (D)   For permitting any person to mix drinks with materials purchased
in any premises licensed under this article or brought into the premises for
this purpose;
         (E)   For the sale or possession of, or for permitting the use or
consumption of alcoholic liquor within or upon any premises licensed under this
article; and
         (F)   The licensee has been convicted of a violation of the Beer and
Cereal Malt Beverage Keg Registration Act.
      (2)   The provisions of divisions (a)(1)(D) and (a)(1)(E) above shall not
apply if the place of business or premises also are currently licensed as a
club or drinking establishment pursuant to the Club and Drinking Establishment
Act.
   (b)   The city, upon five days’ notice to the persons holding a license,
shall revoke or suspend the license for any one of the following reasons:
      (1)   The licensee has fraudulently obtained the license by giving false
information in the application therefor;
      (2)   The licensee has become ineligible to obtain a license under this
chapter;
      (3)   The nonpayment of any license fees;
      (4)   Permitting any gambling in or upon the licensee’s place of
business;
      (5)   The employment of persons under 18 years of age in dispensing or
selling cereal malt beverage;
      (6)   The employment or continuation in employment of a person in
connection with the sale, serving or dispensing of cereal malt beverages if the
licensee knows such person has been, within the preceding two years, adjudged
guilty of a felony or any violation of the intoxicating liquor laws of this
state, another state or the United States; or
      (7)   There has been a violation of K.S.A. 21-4106 or 21-4107, prior to
their repeal or K.S.A. 21-6204, and amendments thereto, (public nuisance) in or
upon the licensee’s place of business.
(K.S.A. 41-2708)
§ 3-210 SAME; APPEAL.
   The licensee, within 20 days after the order of the governing body revoking
any license, may appeal to the District Court of the county and the District
Court shall proceed to hear such appeal as though such Court had original
jurisdiction in the matter. Any appeal taken under this section shall not
suspend the order of revocation or suspension during the pendency of such
appeal. In case of the revocation of the license of any licensee, no new
license shall be issued to such person or any person acting for or on his or
her behalf, for a period of six months thereafter.
(K.S.A. 41-2708)
§ 3-211 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   If a licensee desires to change the location of his or her place of
business, he or she shall make an application to the governing body showing the
same information relating to the proposed location as in the case of an
original application. Such application shall be accompanied by a fee, as set by
the governing body. If the application is in proper form and the location is
not in a prohibited zone and all other requirements relating to such place of
business are met, a new license shall be issued for the new location for the
balance of the year for which a current license is held by the licensee.
§ 3-212 WHOLESALERS AND/OR DISTRIBUTORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any wholesaler and/or distributor or his, her or
its agents or employees, to sell and/or deliver cereal malt beverages within
the city, to persons authorized under this article to sell the same within this
city unless such wholesaler and/or distributor has first secured a license from
the Director of Revenue, State Commission of Revenue and Taxation of the state
authorizing such sales.
(K.S.A. 41-307 to 41-307a)
§ 3-213 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of every licensee to observe the following regulations.
   (a)   The place of business licensed and operating under this article shall
at all times have a front and rear exit unlocked when open for business.
   (b)   The premises and all equipment used in connection with such business
shall be kept clean and in a sanitary condition and shall at all times be open
to inspection.
   (c)   No person, firm, corporation of partnership is authorized to sell at
any retail alcoholic liquor establishment liquor in the original package before
the hour of 9:00 a.m. or after the hour of 11:00 p.m. on Monday through
Saturday, or before the hour of 9:00 a.m. or after the hour of 8:00 p.m. on
Sunday, and is prohibited at any time on Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, or
Easter, within the corporate limits of the city.
   (d)   Cereal malt beverages may be sold at any time alcoholic liquor is
allowed by law to be served on premises which are licensed pursuant to K.S.A.
41-2601 et seq., and licensed as a club by the State Director of Alcoholic
Beverage Control.
   (e)   The place of business shall be open to the public and to the city at
all times during business hours, except that premises licensed as a club under
a license issued by the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control shall be
open to the city and not to the public.
   (f)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or agent or employee of the
licensee to become intoxicated in the place of business for which such license
has been issued.
   (g)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
intoxicated person to remain in the place of business for which such license
has been issued.
   (h)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall sell or permit
the sale of cereal malt beverage to any person under 21 years of age.
   (i)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
gambling in the place of business for which such license has been issued.
   (j)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
person to mix alcoholic drinks with materials purchased in said place of
business or brought in for such purpose.
   (k)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall employ any
person under 21 years of age in dispensing cereal malt beverages. No licensee
shall employ any person who has been judged guilty of a felony.
(Ord. 582-C-2021, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 3-214 PROHIBITED CONDUCT ON PREMISES.
   The following conduct by a cereal malt beverage licensee, manager or
employee of any licensed cereal malt beverage establishment is deemed contrary
to public welfare and is prohibited:
   (a)   Remaining or permitting any person to remain in or upon the premises
who exposes to view any portion of the female breasts below the top of the
areola or any portion of males’/females’ pubic hair, anus, buttocks or
genitals;
   (b)   Permitting any employee on the licensed premises to touch, caress or
fondle the breasts, buttocks, anus, vulva or genitals of any other employee or
any patron;
   (c)   Encouraging or permitting any patron on the licensed premises to
touch, caress or fondle the breasts, buttocks, anus, vulva or genitals of any
employee;
   (d)   Performing or permitting any person to perform on the licensed
premises acts of or acts which simulate:
      (1)   Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy or any other sexual act
which is prohibited by law; or
      (2)   Touching, caressing or fondling such persons’ breasts, buttocks,
anus or genitals.
   (e)   Using or permitting any person to use on the licensed premises, any
artificial devices or inanimate objects to depict any of the acts prohibited by
division (d) above;
   (f)   Showing or permitting any person to show on the licensed premises any
motion picture, film, photograph, electronic reproduction or other visual
reproduction depicting:
      (1)   Acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy
or any sexual act which is prohibited by law;
      (2)   The touching, caressing or fondling of the buttocks, anus, genitals
or the female breasts; and
      (3)   Scenes in which a person displays the buttocks, anus, genitals or
the female breasts.
   (g)   As used in this section, the term PREMISES means the premises licensed
by the city as a cereal malt beverage establishment and such other areas, under
the control of the licensee or his or her employee or employees, that are in
such close proximity to the licensed premises that activities and conduct of
persons within such other areas may be viewed by persons on or within the
licensed premises.
§ 3-215 SANITARY CONDITIONS REQUIRED.
   All parts of the licensed premises including furnishings and equipment shall
be kept clean and in a sanitary condition, free from flies, rodents and vermin
at all times. The licensed premises shall have at least one restroom for each
sex easily accessible at all times to its patrons and employees. The restroom
shall be equipped with at least one lavatory with hot and cold running water,
be well-lighted, and be furnished at all times with paper towels or other
mechanical means of drying hands and face. Each restroom shall be provided with
adequate toilet facilities which shall be of sanitary design and readily
cleanable. The doors of all toilet rooms shall be self closing and toilet paper
at all times shall be provided. Easily cleanable receptacles shall be provided
for waste material and such receptacles in toilet rooms for women shall be
covered. The restrooms shall at all times be kept in a sanitary condition and
free of offensive odors and shall be at all times subject to inspection.
§ 3-216 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to remain on
any premises where the sale of cereal malt beverages is licensed for on-
premises consumption.
   (b)   This section shall not apply if the person under 21 years of age is an
employee of the licensed establishment, or is accompanied by his or her parent
or guardian, or if the licensed establishment derives not more than 30% of its
gross receipts in each calendar year from the sale of cereal malt beverages for
on-premises consumption.
ARTICLE 3: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
Section
   
3-301   State license required
   
3-302   Occupational tax
   
3-303   Posting of receipt
   
3-304   Hours of sale
   
3-305   Business regulations
   
3-306   Restrictions on location
§ 3-301 STATE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep for sale, offer for sale
or expose for sale or sell any alcoholic liquor as defined by the State Liquor
Control Act without first having obtained a state license to do so.
   (b)   The holder of a license for the retail sale in the city of alcoholic
liquors by the package issued by the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage
Control shall present such license to the City Clerk when applying to pay the
occupation tax levied in § 3-302 and the tax shall be received and a receipt
shall be issued for the period covered by the state license.
§ 3-302 OCCUPATIONAL TAX.
   There is hereby levied a biennial occupation tax of $500 on any person
holding a license issued by the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control
for the retail sale within the city of alcoholic liquors for consumption off
the premises. Such tax shall be paid by the retailer to the City Clerk before
business is begun under an original state license and shall be paid within five
days after any renewal of a state license.
(K.S.A. 41-310)
§ 3-303 POSTING OF RECEIPT.
   Every licensee under this article shall cause the city alcoholic liquor
retailer’s occupation tax receipt to be placed in plain view, next to or below
the state license in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
§ 3-304 HOURS OF SALE.
   No person shall sell at retail any alcoholic liquor:
   (a)   On any Sunday;
   (b)   On Decoration Day or Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day;
   (c)   No person, firm, corporation of partnership is authorized to sell at
any retail alcoholic liquor establishment liquor in the original package before
the hour of 9:00 a.m. or after the hour of 11:00 p.m. on Monday through
Saturday, or before the hour of 9:00 a.m. or after the hour of 8:00 p.m. on
Sunday, and is prohibited at any time on Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, or
Easter, within the corporate limits of the city.
(K.S.A. 41-712) (Ord. 582-C-2021, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 3-305 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for a retailer of alcoholic liquor to:
   (a)   Permit any person to mix drinks in or on the licensed premises unless
the person is preparing or mixing samples for the purposes of conducting wine,
beer or distilled spirit tastings, or any combination thereof, as authorized by
K.S.A. 41-308d, and amendments thereto;
   (b)   Employ any person under the age of 21 years in connection with the
operation of the retail establishment;
   (c)   Employ any person in connection with the operation of the retail
establishment who has been adjudged guilty of a felony;
   (d)   Furnish any entertainment in his or her premises or permit any pinball
machine or game of skill or chance to be located in or on the premises;
   (e)   Have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, cask or
other containers containing alcoholic liquor, except in the original package;
or
   (f)   Sell, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver, or permit the sale,
gift or procuring of any alcoholic liquor to or for any person under 21 years
of age.
(K.S.A. 41-713)
§ 3-306 RESTRICTIONS ON LOCATION.
   No person shall knowingly or unknowingly sell, give away, furnish, dispose
of, procure, exchange or deliver, or permit the selling, giving away,
furnishing, disposing of, procuring, exchanging or delivering of any alcoholic
beverage in any building, structure or premises, for consumption in such
building or upon such premises if such consumption is within 200 feet from the
nearest property line of any existing hospital, school, church or library.
(K.S.A. 41-710)
ARTICLE 4: PRIVATE CLUBS
Section
   
3-401   License required
   
3-402   License fee
   
3-403   Business regulations
§ 3-401 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person granted a private club (Class A and
Class B), drinking establishment or caterers license by the state to sell or
serve any alcoholic liquor authorized by such license within the city, without
first obtaining a local license from the city. The penalty for operation or
attempting to operate without a city license will result in a per diem penalty
of $10 (per day) until such license is obtained. Failure to obtain said city
license may result in denial of future business, license applications and the
right to do business within the city.
(Ord. 603-09-B-2014, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 3-402 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   An annual license fee in the amount of $250 on each club located in
the city which has a drinking establishment license issued by the State
Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control, which fee shall be paid before business
is begun under an original state license and within five days after any renewal
of a state license. For establishments already in existence, such fee shall be
paid within five days of enactment of this division (a).
   (b)   All applications for new or renewal city licenses shall be submitted
to the City Clerk. Upon presentation of a state license, payment of the city
license fee and the license application, the City Clerk shall issue a city
license for the period covered by the state license, if there are no conflicts
with any zoning or alcoholic beverage ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The license period shall extend for the period covered by the state
license. No license fee shall be refunded for any reason.
   (d)   Every licensee shall cause the city club license to be placed in plain
view next to or below the state license in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premises.
(Ord. 603-09, passed 1-20-2009; Ord. 603-09A, passed 8-3-2010)
§ 3-403 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No club licensed hereunder shall allow the serving, mixing or
consumption of alcoholic liquor on its premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 9:00 a.m. on any day.
   (b)   Cereal malt beverages may be sold on premises licensed for the retail
sale of cereal malt beverages for on-premises consumption at any time when
alcoholic liquor is allowed by law to be served on the premises.
   (c)   No club membership shall be sold to any person under 21 years of age,
nor shall alcoholic beverages or cereal malt beverages be given, sold or traded
to any person under 21 years of age.
(K.S.A. 41-2614)
ARTICLE 5: DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
3-501   License required
   
3-502   License fee
   
3-503   Business regulations
§ 3-501 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person granted a private club (Class A and
Class B), drinking establishment or caterers license by the state to sell or
serve any alcoholic liquor authorized by such license within the city, without
first obtaining a local license from the city. The penalty for operation or
attempting to operate without a city license will result in a per diem penalty
of $10 (per day) until such license is obtained. Failure to obtain said city
license may result in denial of future business, license applications and the
right to do business within the city.
(Ord. 603-09-B-2014, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 3-502 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   An annual license fee in the amount of $250 on each drinking
establishment located in the city which has a drinking establishment license
issued by the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control, which fee shall be
paid before business is begun under an original state license and within five
days after any renewal of a state license. For establishments already in
existence, such fee shall be paid within five days of enactment of this
division (a).
   (b)   All applications for new or renewal city licenses shall be submitted
to the City Clerk. Upon presentation of a state license, payment of the city
license fee and the license application, the City Clerk shall issue a city
license for the period covered by the state license, if there are no conflicts
with any zoning or alcoholic beverage ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The license period shall extend for the period covered by the state
license. No license fee shall be refunded for any reason.
   (d)   Every licensee shall cause the city drinking establishment license to
be placed in plain view next to or below the state license in a conspicuous
place on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 603-09, passed 1-20-2009; Ord. 603-09A, passed 8-3-2010)
§ 3-503 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No drinking establishment licensed hereunder shall allow the serving,
mixing or consumption of alcoholic liquor on its premises between the hours of
2:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. on any day.
   (b)   Cereal malt beverages may be sold on premises licensed for the retail
sale of cereal malt beverage for on-premises consumption at any time when
alcoholic liquor is allowed by law to be served on the premises.
   (c)   No alcoholic beverages or cereal malt beverages shall be given, sold
or traded to any person under 21 years of age.
(K.S.A. 41-2614)
ARTICLE 6: CATERERS
Section
   
3-601   License required
   
3-602   License fee
   
3-603   Business regulations
§ 3-601 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person granted a private club (Class A and
Class B), drinking establishment or caterers license by the state to sell or
serve any alcoholic liquor authorized by such license within the city, without
first obtaining a local license from the city. The penalty for operation or
attempting to operate without a city license will result in a per diem penalty
of $10 (per day) until such license is obtained. Failure to obtain said city
license may result in denial of future business, license applications and the
right to do business within the city.
(Ord. 603-09-B-2014, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 3-602 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied an annual license fee in the amount of $200 on
each caterer doing business in the city who has a caterer’s license issued by
the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control, which fee shall be paid
before business is begun under an original state license and within five days
after any renewal of a state license.
   (b)   All applications for new or renewal city licenses shall be submitted
to the City Clerk. Upon presentation of a state license, payment of the city
license fee and the license application, the City Clerk shall issue a city
license for the period covered by the state license, if there are no conflicts
with any zoning or alcoholic beverage ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The license period shall extend for the period covered by the state
license. No license fee shall be refunded for any reason.
   (d)   Every licensee shall cause the caterer license to be placed in plain
view on any premises within the city where the caterer is serving or mixing
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises.
(Ord. 603-09, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 3-603 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No caterer licensed hereunder shall allow the serving, mixing or
consumption of alcoholic liquor between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on
any day.
   (b)   No alcoholic beverages or cereal malt beverages shall be given, sold
or traded to any person under 21 years of age.
(K.S.A. 41-2614)
ARTICLE 7: TEMPORARY PERMITS
Section
   
3-701   Permit required
   
3-702   Permit fee
   
3-703   City temporary permit
   
3-704   Permit regulations
§ 3-701 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person granted a temporary permit by the state
to sell or serve any alcoholic liquor within the city without first obtaining a
local temporary permit from the City Clerk.
§ 3-702 PERMIT FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied a temporary permit fee in the amount of $200)
on each group or individual holding a temporary permit issued by the State
Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control authorizing sales within the city, which
fee shall be paid before the event is begun under the state permit.
   (b)   Every temporary permit holder shall cause the temporary permit receipt
to be placed in plain view on any premises within the city where the holder of
the temporary permit is serving or mixing alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises.
§ 3-703 CITY TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   (a)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct an event under a
state issued temporary permit without first applying for a local temporary
permit at least 14 days before the event.
      (2)   Written application for the local temporary permit shall be made to
the City Clerk and shall clearly state:
         (A)   The name of the applicant;
         (B)   The group for which the event is planned;
         (C)   The location of the event;
         (D)   The date and time of the event; and
         (E)   Any anticipated need for municipal services.
   (b)   Upon presentation of a state temporary permit, payment of the city’s
temporary permit fee and a written application as provided for in division (a)
above, the City Clerk shall issue a local temporary permit to the applicant if
there are no conflicts with any zoning or other ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The City Clerk shall notify the person designated by the city whenever
a temporary permit has been issued and forward a copy of the permit and
application.
§ 3-704 PERMIT REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No temporary permit holder shall allow the serving, mixing or
consumption of alcoholic liquor between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. at
any event for which a temporary permit has been issued.
   (b)   No alcoholic beverages shall be given, sold or traded to any person
under 21 years of age.
ARTICLE 8: SPECIAL EVENT CMB PERMITS
Section
   
3-801   Special event CMB permits; permit required
   
3-802   Same; permit fee
   
3-803   Same; city special event permit
   
3-804   Same; permit regulations
§ 3-801 SPECIAL EVENT CMB PERMITS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or serve any CMB (cereal malt
beverages) at any special event within the city without first obtaining a local
special event permit from the City Clerk.
(K.S.A. 41-2703)
§ 3-802 SAME; PERMIT FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied a special event permit fee in the amount of
$200 on each group or individual, which fee shall be paid before the event
begins. Such fee shall be in addition to the $25 fee to be remitted to the
Division of Alcohol Beverage Control.
   (b)   Every special event permit holder shall cause the permit receipt to be
placed in plain view on any premises within the city where the holder of the
special event permit is serving CMB for consumption on the premises.
(K.S.A. 41-2702)
§ 3-803 SAME; CITY SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT.
   (a)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or serve CMB at a
special event without first applying for a local special event permit at least
14 days before the event. Written application for the local special event
permit shall be made to the City Clerk on the form used for annual cereal malt
beverage sales or, when available, the special event CMB permit application
approved by the Attorney General, as directed by the City Clerk.
      (2)   In addition to any other information required, the applicant shall
provide the following:
         (A)   The name of the applicant;
         (B)   The group for which the event is planned;
         (C)   The location of the event;
         (D)   The date and time of the event; and
         (E)   Any anticipated need for municipal services.
   (b)   Upon meeting the requirements to obtain a special event permit, the
City Clerk shall issue a local special event permit to the applicant if there
are no conflicts with any zoning or other ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The City Clerk shall notify the person designated by the city whenever
a special event permit has been issued and forward a copy of the permit and
application.
§ 3-804 SAME; PERMIT REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No special event permit holder shall allow the serving of CMB between
the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. at any event for which a special event
permit has been issued.
   (b)   No CMB shall be given, sold or traded to any person under 21 years of
age.
   (c)   No more than four special event permits may be issued in a calendar
year to the same applicant.
   (d)   No special event permit issued hereunder may be transferred or
assigned to any other vendor.
   (e)   All local ordinances and state statutes for the sale and consumption
of CMB apply to holders of special event permits.
(K.S.A. 41-2703)
ARTICLE 9: KEG REGISTRATION
Section
   
3-901   Definitions
   
3-902   Retailer duties
   
3-903   Purchaser requirements
   
3-904   Identification requirements
   
3-905   Deposit refund
   
3-906   Violations
§ 3-901 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEER. A beverage, containing more than 3.2% alcohol by weight, obtained by
alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or concoction of barley, or other grain,
malt and hops in water and includes beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and
similar beverages having such alcoholic content.
   CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE. Any fermented but undistilled liquor brewed or made
from malt or from a mixture of malt or malt substitute, but does not include
any such liquor which is more than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   KEG. A reusable container of beer or cereal malt beverage having a liquid
capacity of four or more gallons.
   LEGAL AGE FOR CONSUMPTION. Twenty-one years of age.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, trust or association.
   PROPER PROOF OF IDENTIFICATION. A photographic motor vehicle operator’s
license, a valid passport, a United States military identification card, a
state photographic non-driver’s identification card, or other official or
apparently official document, containing a photograph, signature and birth date
of the person.
   RETAILER. A person who sells at retail, or offers for sale at retail, beer
or cereal malt beverage for use or consumption and not for resale in any form,
and includes sales of beer or cereal malt beverage in a keg returnable to the
seller. Such terms shall not refer to or mean sales by a distributor or sales
by one retailer to another.
   SELL or SELL AT RETAIL. Sales of beer or cereal malt beverage for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form, and includes sales of beer or
cereal malt beverage in a keg returnable to the seller. Such terms shall not
refer to or mean sales by a distributor or sales by one retailer to another.
§ 3-902 RETAILER DUTIES.
   A retailer, or retailer’s employee or agent, prior to or at the time of any
sale at retail of a keg, shall:
   (a)   Affix or cause to be affixed to the keg a keg identification tag, in
accordance with the provisions of §
3-904;
   (b)   Require the purchaser to exhibit proper proof of identification. If
the purchaser fails to provide such proof of identification, the retailer shall
refuse to sell the keg to such person;
   (c)   Require the purchaser to sign a declaration and receipt for the keg in
the form provided for in §
3-904;
   (d)   Record on the declaration the keg identification tag number, the date
of sale, the purchaser’s name and address, and the type, number and expiration
date of the purchaser’s identification;
   (e)   Inform the purchaser, that any deposit paid by the purchaser for the
keg, if required, shall be forfeited if the keg is returned without the
original keg identification tag intact and readable;
   (f)   Require each purchaser of any such keg to acknowledge as part of the
declaration that persons under 21 are not of legal age for consumption of beer
or cereal malt beverage and that the declaration is subject to inspection by
law enforcement personnel; and
   (g)   Provide a copy of the declaration and receipt to the purchaser.
§ 3-903 PURCHASER REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person who purchases a keg or the contents thereof shall:
   (a)   Be of legal age to purchase, possess or use beer and cereal malt
beverage;
   (b)   Provide proof of identification and such other information as the
retailer may require in accordance with §
3-902;
   (c)   Sign a declaration and receipt in the form required by §
3-902;
   (d)   Not allow any person under the age of 21 to consume the keg contacts
except as allowed by law;
   (e)   Not remove, obliterate or allow to be removed or obliterated, the keg
identification tag required by §
3-902; and
   (f)   Maintain a copy of the declaration and receipt with the keg during the
time the keg is in the purchaser’s possession or control.
§ 3-904 IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   The keg identification tag required under this article shall be in the
form of a uniquely numbered and coded tag or label, prescribed and furnished by
the City Clerk. Such tag or label is used for a single sale of the marked keg
and is to be removed from the keg by the retailer upon return of the keg to the
retail seller and maintained with the records of the sale. Such tags shall be
fabricated and made attachable in such a manner as to make the tag removable
for the purpose of the cleaning and reusing the keg by a manufacturer.
   (b)   The declaration and receipt required shall be on a form prescribed and
furnished by the City Clerk and shall include the information as required by §§
3-902 and
3-903 thereof, and may include such other identifying information as the City
Clerk may deem necessary and appropriate.
   (c)   Retailers may apply for and receive keg identification tags and
declaration and receipt forms from the City Clerk upon submittal of an
application on a form as prescribed by the City Clerk and such proof as may be
required by the City Clerk that the applicant is duly licensed to sell beer or
cereal malt beverages in a keg. The City Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for
furnishing the tags and forms required by this article not to exceed the actual
cost of furnishing such tags and forms.
   (d)   The retailer shall retain a copy of all such declarations and receipts
required on the retailer’s licensed premises for a period of six months. Such
declarations and receipts shall be available for inspection and copying by any
law enforcement officer during normal business hours for the purpose of
identifying persons suspected of a violation of law.
   (e)   Falsifying any information on a declaration and receipt shall be a
violation of this section.
§ 3-905 DEPOSIT REFUND.
   No retailer may refund any deposit upon return of a keg that:
   (a)   Does not have the required identification tag; or
   (b)   Has an identification tag that has been defaced to the extent that the
information contained on the tag cannot be read.
§ 3-906 VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Remove from a keg all or part of a keg identification tag required
pursuant to this article;
      (2)   Deface a keg identification tag to the extent the information
contained on the tag cannot be read;
      (3)   Fail to return a keg within ten days of the due date; or
      (4)   Possess a keg that does not have the keg identification tag.
   (b)   Provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply to a
manufacturer, distributor or retailer, and division (a)(4) above shall not
apply to any person who finds a discarded keg on such person’s property.
CHAPTER IV: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
   Article
      
1.   FIRE LIMITS
      
2.   BUILDING CODE
      
3.   ELECTRICAL CODE
      
4.   PLUMBING AND GAS-FITTING CODE
      
5.   MOVING BUILDINGS
      
6.   DANGEROUS AND UNFIT STRUCTURES
      
7.   INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE
      
8.   UNIFORM HOUSING CODE
ARTICLE 1: FIRE LIMITS
Section
   
4-101   Fire limits established
§ 4-101 FIRE LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   The following shall be and are hereby declared to be the fire limits of the
city: city limits of Linwood.
ARTICLE 2: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
4-201   Definitions
   
4-202   International Building Code incorporated
   
4-203   Additional provisions
   
4-204   Building Official; powers; duties
   
4-205   Building Inspector; appointment
   
4-206   Same; duties
   
4-207   Same; powers
   
4-208   Same; right of entry
   
4-209   Clarification; modification
   
4-210   Building permit required; application; approval
   
4-211   Same; application information required
   
4-212   Same; plans and specifications
   
4-213   Same; fees
   
4-214   Same; posting
   
4-215   Certificate of approval
   
4-216   Inspections of building; layout of building; foundations and footings;
notice to Inspector
   
4-217   Request for inspection
   
4-218   Inspection fee
   
4-219   Builder or building contractor defined
   
4-220   Builder’s or building contractor’s license required; building permits;
unlawful acts
   
4-221   Same; application; granting
   
4-222   Same; license fees; conditions; renewal; unlawful acts
   
4-223   Builder’s or building contractor’s bond required; conditions; approval;
rights reserved
   
4-224   Insurance
   
4-225   License suspension; revocation; appeal; unlawful acts
   
4-226   Work by property owners
   
4-227   Liability
   
4-228   Severability
§ 4-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The person designated by the city or his or her
authorized designee.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. The City Attorney of the City of Linwood.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Linwood, Kansas.
§ 4-202 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE INCORPORATED.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of regulating
building within the corporate limits of the city that certain code known as the
International Building Code, Edition of 2018. No fewer than two copies of said
International Building Code shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as
Incorporated by the Code of the City of Linwood, Kansas,” and to which shall be
attached a copy of Ord. 727-2022, and filed with the City Clerk to be open to
inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours.
(Ord. 727-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 4-203 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The following sections of this article are in addition to the provisions of
the standard code incorporated by reference in §
4-202.
§ 4-204 BUILDING OFFICIAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (a)   This and other articles of the city relating generally to building and
structures shall be administered and enforced by the person designated by the
city. The person designated by the city shall act as Chief Building Official
and may assume the responsibilities of or with the consent and approval of the
governing body appoint a Building Inspector and such other assistants as may be
advisable for the issuance of building permits and the inspection of building
work.
   (b)   The person designated by the city shall prepare such application,
permit, inspection and record forms as may be required for the purposes of the
article. The person designated by the city may make and promulgate the
necessary rules and regulations to obtain conformity with this article
pertaining to the making of applications for building permits, issuing of
building permits, and inspecting of buildings and building works.
§ 4-205 BUILDING INSPECTOR; APPOINTMENT.
   The person designated by the city may assume the responsibilities of or
appoint some qualified officer or employee of the city to be and perform the
duties of Building Inspector as may be required, subject to the consent and
approval of the governing body.
§ 4-206 SAME; DUTIES.
   The Building Inspector shall have the following duties:
   (a)   To enforce all regulations relating to construction, alteration,
repair, removal and demolition of building and structures;
   (b)   May permit, with the approval of the governing body, on the basis of
duly authenticated reports from recognized sources, the use of new materials or
modes of construction, not provided for in this article, and may, for the
purpose of carrying out the intent of this article adopt an accepted standard
of material or workmanlike practices of federal or state bureaus, national,
technical organizations or fire underwriters;
   (c)   To examine all buildings in the process of erection, construction,
alteration or relocation in the city for the purpose of determining whether the
work is in compliance with the permit given and in compliance with the
regulations of the city pertaining to such work, including zoning regulations;
and
   (d)   To keep comprehensive records of applications, of permits or
certificates issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered, and of notices
or orders issued. All such records shall be open to public inspection during
stated office hours, but shall not be removed from the office of the Building
Official without his or her written consent.
§ 4-207 SAME; POWERS.
   The Building Inspector shall have the following powers:
   (a)   To enter any building or structure or premises at any reasonable hour,
whether complete or in the process of erection, to perform the duties contained
in this article;
   (b)   To adopt and enforce all such prudent emergency measures as he or she
may deem necessary and expedient for the public safety under the laws of the
city; and
   (c)   May cause any work done in violation of this article to be
discontinued until he or she shall have satisfactory evidence that the work
will be done in accordance with the building regulations of the city, subject
to the right of any builder or owner to appeal to the governing body.
§ 4-208 SAME; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Building Inspector, or his or her agent, upon proper identification,
shall have authority to enter any building, structure or premises at any
reasonable hour to perform his or her duties as set out in this article.
§ 4-209 CLARIFICATION; MODIFICATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall be the final determiner of the scope and
meaning of all provisions of the Building Code which may be unclear, ambiguous
or requiring interpretation.
   (b)   The Building Inspector shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Building Code upon application in writing by the owner or
lessee or his or her authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code. In approving
modifications, the Building Inspector shall see that the spirit of the code is
observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars
of a modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the Inspector
thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Building Inspector and a
signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
§ 4-210 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; APPROVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or authorized agent who intends to
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish or change the occupancy of a
building or structure or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove,
convert or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, the
installation of which is regulated by this code, or to cause any such work to
be done within the city without a building permit being first obtained therefor
from the City Clerk, after approval by the Chief Building Official or his or
her duly authorized assistant. The application for such permit shall be made
and the permit obtained before work is commenced upon any building or structure
or the foundation thereof, or before the removal of any building begins.
§ 4-211 SAME; APPLICATION INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   A building permit shall be issued upon an application in writing
to the office of City Clerk on a form or forms provided for the purpose.
      (2)   This application shall, among other things, disclose the following:
         (A)   The name of the owner of the lot or tract of ground;
         (B)   The location of the building or structure;
         (C)   The building work proposed;
         (D)   The outside dimensions of the building by floors and dimensions
of the basement (if any);
         (E)   The class of occupancy;
         (F)   The class of construction;
         (G)   The kind of materials to be used for walls, floors, ceilings,
roofs and foundations;
         (H)   The estimated cost of the work;
         (I)   The date work will commence;
         (J)   Expected date of completion;
         (K)   Name and address of contractor or contractors doing the work;
and
         (L)   Such other information as may be pertinent to the issuance of
the required permit.
   (b)   (1)   An application for a building permit shall be signed by the
owner or his or her duly authorized agent, or a building contractor licensed by
the city. If the application is made by the owner or his or her agent, it shall
contain the name or names of the licensed contractor or contractors doing the
work described, or a building permit may be issued to the owner upon his or her
application disclosing satisfactory evidence that the proposed work will be
performed by the owner, himself or herself and not by a licensed contractor,
and likewise subject to the final approval of the Building Inspector for work
performed.
      (2)   If an application for a building permit indicates that it is for
commercial or residential roofing services, including construction,
installation, renovation, repair, maintenance, alteration or water-proofing,
the application shall include the contractor’s name, the contractor’s place of
business within the city (and home office if not a resident), the contractor’s
state registration number as issued under the State Roofing Registration Act
(K.S.A. 50-6,121 et seq.), and shall also be signed by the roofing contractor
or contractor’s authorized agent; provided, however, that this division (b)(2)
shall not apply to:
         (A)   An actual owner of commercial or residential property who
physically performs, or has employees who perform, roofing services on such
owner’s own dwelling or other structures located on the residential property
without the assistance of a registered roofing contractor;
         (B)   To those persons identified in K.S.A. 50-6,129(a)(1) through (a)
(8), and amendments there to; or
         (C)   To an “exempt general contractor”, as defined in K.S.A. 50-
6,122, and amendments thereto.
      (3)   If the application for a building permit indicates that it involves
renovation, repairing or painting of a home or child-occupied facility,
including day care centers and schools, built before 1978 and will disturb six
square feet of painted interior surfaces or 20 square feet of painted exterior
surfaces, the contractor performing the services must furnish proof of state
certification as a licensed renovation firm or renovator; provided, however,
that this division (b)(3) does not apply to a home owner performing work on an
owner-occupied residence. In addition, this division (b)(3) does not apply to
any other exception or exemption set forth in the State Department of Health
and Environment Renovation, Repair and Painting Rule, as described in K.A.R.
28-72-1:54 and in 40 C.F.R. pt. 745, and amendments thereto.
   (c)   Upon approval of the completed application, including, if required,
the verification of state roofer registration or other state certification, and
a determination that a permit should be issued, the Chief Building Official or
his or her assistant shall issue a permit to the owner or contractor
authorizing the building work covered by the application. If applicable, the
permit shall include the roofer registration number or any other certification
or license number issued by the state.
   (d)   Any permit issued under this section shall be valid and subsisting for
a period of not more than six months from the date of issuance unless the
permittee shall have commenced, within the period so limited, the building work
authorized by such permit. BUILDING WORK COMMENCED for the purpose of this
section shall mean the beginning of building work other than the preparation of
plans or the staking out of the building location or the letting of a building
contract.
§ 4-212 SAME; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Whenever an application for a building permit is made, the Chief Building
Official may, if he or she finds it necessary to determine whether building
work described in the application will comply with the laws pertaining to such
work, require that the applicant file a written description or drawing of the
proposed building as may be prepared for the purpose. If such drawing or
description is insufficient for the purposes of determining whether a permit
should be issued, the Building Official may require the applicant to file
complete architectural and engineering plans and specifications for such
building, or any part thereof, as may be necessary for the Inspector to
determine compliance with this article. The filing of such plans and
specifications and the approval thereof in connection with an application for a
permit shall not in any way affect the authority of the city to deny or issue a
permit, or to inspect any building work for conformity with this article.
§ 4-213 SAME; FEES.
   The fee for a building permit shall be as set by the governing body,
however, no fee shall be required to obtain a permit where the total estimated
cost, the reasonable value of all services, labor and materials required, as
set by the governing body. The fee herein shall be paid to the City Clerk upon
obtaining a building permit and the same shall be credited to the General
Operating Fund of the city.
§ 4-214 SAME; POSTING.
   A copy of the building permit shall be kept on the premises for public
inspection during the performance of the work and until the completion of the
same. The Building Inspector may require a certified copy of the approved plans
to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work to
the completion thereof.
§ 4-215 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   Upon the completion of any work under a building permit, the Chief Building
Official or the Building Inspector or his or her designee is authorized to
issue a certificate of approval for the occupancy and use of the building or
structure. The certificate shall show the number of inspections made and the
orders and corrections required during the course of the work. A copy of such
certificate shall be given the owner.
§ 4-216 INSPECTIONS OF BUILDING; LAYOUT OF BUILDING; FOUNDATIONS AND FOOTINGS;
NOTICE TO INSPECTOR.
   (a)   The contractor or builder having a permit for new construction, or
additions to existing buildings, shall notify the Chief Building Official or
Building Inspector immediately upon the marking or laying out of the site and
foundation for such work. The Official or Inspector shall inspect the layout
for conformity with this article and with respect to lot lines, setbacks and
location of the proposed buildings to determine conformity with the city zoning
regulations. In case of doubt respecting the required location, the Chief
Building Official may require an official survey of the lot lines to determine
conformity, at the expense of the permit holder.
   (b)   Upon completion of the excavation for the building foundation and
footings and the construction of the necessary forms thereof and before the
foundation and footings are poured or laid, the Official or Inspector shall be
notified as in the first case, and it shall be his or her duty to inspect all
such work for conformity with laws respecting location of the building
foundations and footings.
   (c)   The Building Inspector shall, during the course of all building, make
such other inspections as may be directed by the Chief Building Official to be
made during any successive stage of the construction or other work covered by a
permit in order to secure compliance with laws pertaining thereto.
§ 4-217 REQUEST FOR INSPECTION.
   Upon the completion of any building construction work covered by this
article, it shall be the duty of the person doing such work to notify the
Building Inspector and request that it be inspected; after which such work
shall be inspected promptly as hereinafter provided.
§ 4-218 INSPECTION FEE.
   An initial inspection fee, as set by the governing body, and an inspection
fee, as set by the governing body, for subsequent inspections required shall be
paid before any building or construction work will be approved or a certificate
of approval issued.
§ 4-219 BUILDER OR BUILDING CONTRACTOR DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDER or BUILDING CONTRACTOR.
      (1)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, corporation, association, or any
combination thereof, whether a resident or not of the city:
         (A)   Who or which undertakes with or for another, for a fixed sum,
price, fee or any compensation other than wages, to build, construct, alter,
repair, add to, wreck or move any building or structure (or any portion
thereof), or any sidewalk, driveway entrance or structure in any street, or any
advertising sign, panel poster or billboard, or any other structure, in the
city, for which a building or construction permit may now or hereafter be
required by the laws of the city;
         (B)   Who or which advertises or represents himself, herself or itself
to the public to have the capacity or ability to undertake, or submit a bid or
offer to build, construct, alter, repair, add to or wreck, remove, restore or
replace any building, structure or construction work or any portion thereof; or
         (C)   Who or which builds, constructs, alters, adds to or wrecks any
buildings or structures either on his or her own or other property for purposes
of sale or speculation.
      (2)   A BUILDER or BUILDING CONTRACTOR shall not mean or include:
         (A)   Any subcontractor, except for a roofing contractor, working
under the supervision of a general contractor;
         (B)   Any plumbers, gasfitters, electricians or other specialized
occupation for which special licenses or bonds are required by other city laws;
         (C)   Any owner or his or her authorized agents or employees making
ordinary repairs to his, her or its own building or structure not involving the
structural parts of the building for which a permit is not required or on which
a contractor, as defined, is not required, employed or engaged to perform;
         (D)   Any property owner personally performing any improvements,
alterations or building construction within or upon his or her own residence
and intended for his or her own personal use and permanent occupancy; provided,
the owner shall satisfy the Building Official as to his or her ability to
perform such work secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in accordance
with this article, and apply for an inspection and receive approval. Personal
building construction by an owner under this section shall be by himself,
herself, for himself or herself on his or her own residence, without
compensation and no person shall be employed to assist him or her in any way on
such work except a builder or building contractor licensed by the city; or
         (E)   Any person engaged in construction work not involving a total
cost of greater than a fee as set by the governing body, exclusive of labor.
§ 4-220 BUILDER’S OR BUILDING CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED; BUILDING PERMITS;
UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   Each builder or building contractor shall before entering upon any
building or construction work subject to regulation by city laws, apply to the
City Clerk for a builder’s or building contractor’s license and receive the
same as hereinafter provided and have in his or her possession a valid license
authorizing him, her or it to engage in the trade or occupation of a builder or
building contractor in the city.
   (b)   No permit for any building or construction work shall be issued for
any such work to be performed by a builder or building contractor, as defined,
who has not first obtained a license upon making a proper application and
payment of the license fee as required.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company, association or
corporation to enter into a contract or agreement with another so as to bring
himself, herself or itself under the definition of builder or building
contractor herein, or to perform any work as a builder or building contractor
or any work under a contract for any work involving the construction, wrecking
or moving of any building, without first having obtained a builder’s or
building contractor’s license issued by the city.
§ 4-221 SAME; APPLICATION; GRANTING.
   (a)   Application for a builder’s or building contractor’s license shall be
made upon a form to be supplied by the city which shall disclose the name of
the applicant, his or her place of business in the city (and home office if a
nonresident), the kind of contracting work engaged in (as general contracting,
roofing, siding, masonry, plastering, lathing, excavating, water-proofing,
metal work, foundation work, sign hanging, cement work and painting and paper
hanging, house wrecking, or moving and the like), the length of time engaged in
such work and places where work has been performed within the past two years.
The application shall be signed by the builder or building contractor or his or
her authorized agent. The applications shall be, by the Chief Building
Official, referred to the governing body at its next meeting for action
thereon. Such license shall be issued by the City Clerk, upon payment of the
fees hereinafter provided after approval of the governing body.
   (b)   If the applicant is in the business of a roofing contractor, as
defined by the Kansas Roofing Registration Act (KRRA), K.S.A. 50-6,121 et seq.,
and amendments thereto, the applicant shall be required to have a valid state
registration as required under the KRRA and shall present such certificate to
the City Clerk when applying for a builder’s or building contractor’s license.
No such license shall be issued until it is verified that the roofing
contractor is in good standing pursuant to the KRRA; provided, however, that
this division (b) does not apply to an “exempt general contractor” as defined
in K.S.A. 50-6,122, and amendments thereto.
§ 4-222 SAME; LICENSE FEES; CONDITIONS; RENEWAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The following license fees shall be paid for the calendar year
or major fraction thereof:
         (A)   General builder or building contractor, who shall qualify to
engage in more than one kind of contract work, except house moving, the sum as
set by the governing body;
         (B)   Limited builder or building contractor, who shall qualify to
engage in not more than one kind of contract work, the sum as set by the
governing body;
         (C)   House wreckers or movers, the sum as set by the governing body;
         (D)   Sign hangers and panel posters, the sum as set by the governing
body; and
         (E)   Roofing contractor, the sum as set by the governing body.
      (2)   Any license issued on or after July 1 of each year shall be issued
upon payment of one-half the annual license fee.
   (b)   Each such license shall set forth the kind of contract work in which
the licensee may engage. The licensee shall display his or her license at any
place where he or she may be engaged in contract work or produce the same on
demand of any city officer. All licenses shall be renewable annually as in the
case of an original license on or before January 1 of the year for which
issued.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to contract
for any kind of work covered by this article without having a valid license
issued by the city to perform such contracts.
§ 4-223 BUILDER’S OR BUILDING CONTRACTOR’S BOND REQUIRED; CONDITIONS; APPROVAL;
RIGHTS RESERVED.
   (a)   Before any license shall be issued to any builder or building
contractor required by this article to obtain a license and pay a fee to the
city, the builder or building contractor shall secure and file with the City
Clerk a good and sufficient corporate surety bond in the principal sum, as set
by the governing body, conditioned that the principal named therein shall
faithfully and fully observe all laws of the city relating to the business or
occupation for which a license is desired and further conditioned to hold and
save the city harmless and free of claims for loss or damage to persons or
property, or from damage, injury or destruction of property belonging to the
city, resulting from, or arising out of, the negligence or failure of the
principal or any of his, her or its employees, agents or servants to use due
care or diligence respecting any opening or excavation made in, or adjacent to
any street, alley or public ground in the city, or any materials stored, placed
or used in any such places, or the operation or use of any vehicle, machinery
or equipment in the streets, alleys or public grounds in connection with the
business or occupation licensed. Each such bond shall be issued by a company
authorized to do business in the state and shall be executed by an agent of the
company residing in the county and further conditioned that in the event of
cancellation or expiration that the company or agent will give ten days’ notice
of such fact to the City Clerk. Each such bond shall be approved as to form by
the City Attorney and approved as to surety by the City Accountant and the
approval thereof shall be endorsed on the bond by the City Attorney and by the
Mayor over their signatures.
   (b)   Each bond shall be dated to run from the first day of any license
issued by the city to the principal and may cover a period of not to exceed two
years. No bond shall be renewed by an extension certificate but a new bond
shall be filed by the principal for each successive period following the
renewal thereof. The city reserves the right to furnish the form of all surety
bonds as may be required by this article.
§ 4-224 INSURANCE.
   In addition to obtaining a corporate surety bond as required by §
4-223, a builder or building contractor must procure and maintain a liability
insurance policy in the amount of $100,000 for the death or injury of any one
person and $300,000 for the death or injury of any number of persons in any one
accident and $50,000 for property damage in any one accident. Such policies of
insurance shall be issued by some insurance company authorized to do business
in the state. A builder or building contractor may qualify as to the insurance
requirements by filing a certificate with the City Clerk executed by the
resident agent of such company stating that the required policy of insurance
has been issued by such company for the purpose required by this article and
that such insurer will not cancel the policy except upon giving 30 days’ notice
in writing to the city; and that the certificate shall be filed for an annual
period beginning January 1 and ending December 31 of such year.
§ 4-225 LICENSE SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; APPEAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The license of any builder or building contractor may be
suspended temporarily, for a period of not to exceed 30 days at any one time,
by the Chief Building Official upon his or her own motion or upon a complaint
of the City Building Inspector.
      (2)   Notice shall be given in writing to such builder or building
contractor giving reasonable notice of a time of hearing of the complaint or
the matter alleged against such builder or building contractor involving any
one or more of the following:
         (A)   Misrepresentation of a material fact by applicant in obtaining a
license;
         (B)   Use of license to obtain a building permit for another;
         (C)   Failure or neglect to observe conditions of permit authorizing
encumbering of streets or sidewalks for safety of public;
         (D)   Performance of any building or construction work without a
permit where one is required by law; or
         (E)   Willful disregard of any violation of the building and
construction laws, or failure to comply with any lawful order of the City
Building Inspector.
   (b)   Any licensee may, within 15 days, appeal in writing to the governing
body from any order of the Chief Building Official suspending his or her
license for its final decision thereon. The governing body may upon such
hearing terminate such suspension within not more than 30 days thereafter, or
may revoke such license. If any license shall be revoked, the builder or
building contractor shall not be eligible for a new license during a period of
six months thereafter. No fee shall be refunded in event of the suspension or
revocation of any contractor’s license.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the occupation or trade of builder
or building contractor during the time any license of such builder or building
contractor has been suspended or revoked.
§ 4-226 WORK BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from personally
performing any building or construction work within and upon his or her own
residence and intended for his or her personal use and permanent occupancy;
provided, the owner shall satisfy the Building Inspector as to his or her
ability to perform such work, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in
accordance with this article, and apply for an inspection and receive a
certificate of approval. Personal building or construction performed by an
owner under this section shall be by himself, herself, for himself or herself
on his or her own residence, without compensation and no person shall be
employed to assist him or her in any way on such work except a builder or
building contractor licensed by the city.
§ 4-227 LIABILITY.
   This article shall not be construed to relieve from any liability or lessen
the liability of any person performing any activity connected herewith, nor
shall the city be held as assuming any liability by reason of any inspection
authorized herein, by reason of any certificate of inspection issued by it or
by reason of any permit or license granted herein.
§ 4-228 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of the Uniform Building Code or of this article shall be held
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
then such section shall be considered separate and apart from the remaining
sections, the section to be completely severable from the remaining provisions
which shall continue in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 3: ELECTRICAL CODE
Section
   
4-301   Definitions
   
4-302   Adoption of Electrical Code by reference
   
4-303   Additional provisions
   
4-304   Building Official; authority
   
4-305   Electrical Inspector; appointment
   
4-306   Same; duties
   
4-307   Same; powers
   
4-308   Same; right of entry
   
4-309   Clarification; modification
   
4-310   Electrical permit required; application; approval
   
4-311   Same; application information required
   
4-312   Same; plans and specifications
   
4-313   Same; fees
   
4-314   Same; posting
   
4-315   Request for inspection
   
4-316   Inspection; concealment of prior work
   
4-317   Inspection fee
   
4-318   Certificate of approval
   
4-319   Connection to installations
   
4-320   Reinspection
   
4-321   Condemnation; appeal
   
4-322   Interference by unauthorized person
   
4-323   Electrician or electrical contractors defined
   
4-324   Electrician’s or electrical contractor’s license required; electrical
permits; unlawful acts
   
4-325   Same; application; granting
   
4-326   Same; license fees; conditions; renewal; unlawful acts
   
4-327   Electrician’s or electrical contractor’s bond required; conditions;
approval; rights reserved
   
4-328   Insurance
   
4-329   License suspension; revocation; appeal; unlawful acts
   
4-330   Work by property owners
   
4-331   Approved materials
   
4-332   Liability
   
4-333   Severability
§ 4-301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Approved by the Chief Building Official, the Electrical Inspector,
or his or her designee.
   AUTHORIZED PERSON. Any individual, firm or corporation who or which is
licensed under the provisions of this article to do the work as permitted under
the specified provisions of this article.
   CITY. The territory within the corporate limits of this city.
   CONDUCTOR. A wire or cable or other form of metal suitable for carrying the
electric current or potential.
   ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION OR INSTALLATION.
      (1)   Includes all work and materials used in installing, maintaining or
extending a system of electrical wiring and all appurtenances, apparatus or
equipment used in connection therewith, inside or attached to any building,
structure, lot or premises, except industrial plants where full-time
maintenance is provided and other agencies providing inspections of
installations and facilities.
      (2)   ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION shall not be held to mean or include any of
the following:
         (A)   The replacement of lamps, fuses, bulbs or the connection of
portable electrical equipment to suitable permanently installed receptacles and
replacement of receptacles and switches, lighting fixtures, and apparatus where
no changes or alterations are made to the wiring;
         (B)   Any work involved in the manufacturing, repair or testing of any
electrical equipment or apparatus, but not including any permanent wiring; or
         (C)   Any work in industrial establishments where inspections come
under the scope of other inspection agencies.
   EQUIPMENT. Conductors, materials, fittings, devices, appliances, fixtures,
apparatus, motors and the like, used as a part of or in connection with an
electrical installation.
   INSPECTOR. The Chief Building Official or any individual who has been
appointed by the city as Electrical Inspector.
   PERSON. A natural person, his or her heirs, executors, administrators or
assigns, and also includes a firm, partnership or corporation, its or their
successors, assigns or the agent of any of the aforesaid.
   SPECIAL PERMISSION. The written consent of the Chief Building Official or
the Electrical Inspector.
   SPECIAL RULING. A written ruling filed in the office of the Chief Building
Official or the Electrical Inspector.
§ 4-302 ADOPTION OF ELECTRICAL CODE BY REFERENCE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of adopting a
complete set of electrical related regulations within the corporate limits of
the city, that certain code known as the National Electrical Code, Edition of
2017. No fewer than two copies of said National Electrical Code shall be marked
or stamped “Official Copy as Incorporated by the Code of the City of Linwood,
Kansas,” and to which shall be attached a copy of Ord. 731-2022, and filed with
the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public at all
reasonable hours.
(Ord. 731-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 4-303 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The following sections of this article are in addition to the provisions of
the standard code incorporated by reference in §
4-302.
§ 4-304 BUILDING OFFICIAL; AUTHORITY.
   The person designated by the city or his or her authorized designee shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this article and
appointment of an Electrical Inspector in accordance with §
4-204, which shall apply in a like manner to this article.
§ 4-305 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; APPOINTMENT.
   The person designated by the city may assume the responsibilities of or
appoint some qualified officer or employee of the city to be and perform the
duties of Electrical Inspector as may be required, subject to the consent and
approval of the governing body.
§ 4-306 SAME; DUTIES.
   The Electrical Inspector shall have the following duties:
   (a)   To enforce all regulations relating to electrical construction,
alteration, repair or removal;
   (b)   May permit, with the approval of the governing body, on the basis of
duly authenticated reports from recognized sources, the use of new materials or
modes of electrical construction, not provided for in this article, and may,
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of this article adopt an accepted
standard of material or workmanlike practices of federal or state bureaus,
national, technical organizations or fire underwriters;
   (c)   To examine all buildings requiring electrical construction in the
process of erection, construction, alteration or relocation in the city for the
purpose of determining whether the work is in compliance with the permit given
and in compliance with the regulations of the city pertaining to such work,
including zoning regulations; and
   (d)   To keep comprehensive records of applications, of permits or
certificates issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered, and of notices
or orders issued. All such records shall be open to public inspection during
stated office hours, but shall not be removed from the office of the Building
Official or Electrical Inspector without his or her written consent.
§ 4-307 SAME; POWERS.
   The Electrical Inspector shall have the following powers:
   (a)   To enter any building or structure or premises at any reasonable hour,
whether complete or in the process of erection, to perform the duties contained
in this article;
   (b)   To adopt and enforce all such prudent emergency measures as he or she
may deem necessary and expedient for the public safety under the laws of the
city; and
   (c)   May cause any work done in violation of this article to be
discontinued until he or she shall have satisfactory evidence that the work
will be done in accordance with the electrical regulations of the city, subject
to the right of any installer or owner to appeal to the governing body.
§ 4-308 SAME; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Electrical Inspector, or his or her agent, upon proper identification,
shall have authority to enter any building, structure or premises at any
reasonable hour to perform his or her duties as set out in this article.
§ 4-309 CLARIFICATION; MODIFICATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall be the final determiner of the scope and
meaning of all provisions of the Electrical Code which may be unclear,
ambiguous or requiring interpretation.
   (b)   The Electrical Inspector shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Electrical Code upon application in writing by the owner or
lessee or his or her authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code. In approving
modifications, the Electrical Inspector shall see that the spirit of the code
is observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The
particulars of a modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the
Inspector thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Electrical Inspector
and a signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
§ 4-310 ELECTRICAL PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; APPROVAL.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) below, it shall be unlawful for any
person to engage in any electrical construction as defined in §
4-301 within the city without an electrical permit being first obtained
therefor from the City Clerk, after approval by the Chief Building Official or
his or her duly authorized assistant. The application for such permit shall be
made and the permit obtained before any electrical construction work is
commenced.
   (b)   No electrical permit shall be required for any of the following:
      (1)   The replacement of lamps, fuses, bulbs or the connection of
portable electrical equipment to suitable permanently installed receptacles and
replacement of receptacles and switches, lighting fixtures and apparatus where
no changes or alterations are made to the wiring;
      (2)   Any work involved in the manufacturing, repair or testing of any
electrical equipment or apparatus, but not including any permanent wiring; or
      (3)   Any work in industrial establishments where the issuance of
electrical permits comes under the scope of other agencies.
§ 4-311 SAME; APPLICATION INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   An electrical permit shall be issued upon an application in
writing to the office of City Clerk on a form or forms provided for the
purpose.
      (2)   This application shall, among other things, disclose the following:
         (A)   The name of the owner of the lot or tract of ground;
         (B)   The location of the building or structure;
         (C)   The electrical construction work proposed;
         (D)   The class of occupancy;
         (E)   The class of electrical construction;
         (F)   The kind of materials to be used;
         (G)   The estimated cost of the work;
         (H)   The date work will commence;
         (I)   Expected date of completion;
         (J)   Name and address of electrical contractor or contractors doing
the work; and
         (K)   Such other information as may be pertinent to the issuance of
the required permit.
   (b)   An application for an electrical permit shall be signed by the owner
or his or her duly authorized agent, or an electrician or electrical contractor
licensed by the city. If the application is made by the owner or his or her
agent, it shall contain the name or names of the licensed electrician or
electrical contractor or contractors doing the work described, or an electrical
permit may be issued to the owner upon his or her application disclosing
satisfactory evidence that the proposed work will be performed by the owner,
himself or herself and not by a licensed electrical contractor, and likewise
subject to the final approval of the Electrical Inspector for work performed.
   (c)   Upon approval of the completed application and a determination that a
permit should be issued, the Chief Building Official or his or her assistant
shall issue a permit to the owner, electrician or electrical contractor
authorizing the electrical construction work covered by the application.
   (d)   Any permit issued under this section shall be valid and subsisting for
a period of not more than six months from the date of issuance unless the
permittee shall have commenced, within the period so limited, the electrical
construction work authorized by such permit. ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION WORK
COMMENCED, for the purpose of this section, shall mean the beginning of
electrical construction work other than the preparation of plans or the letting
of an electrical contract.
§ 4-312 SAME; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Whenever an application for a electrical permit is made, the Chief Building
Official or the Electrical Inspector may, if he or she finds it necessary to
determine whether electrical construction work described in the application
will comply with the laws pertaining to such work, require that the applicant
file a written description or drawing of the proposed electrical construction
as may be prepared for the purpose. If such drawing or description is
insufficient for the purposes of determining whether a permit should be issued,
the Building Official may require the applicant to file complete electrical and
engineering plans and specifications for such electrical construction, or any
part thereof, as may be necessary for the Inspector to determine compliance
with this article. The filing of such plans and specifications and the approval
thereof in connection with an application for a permit shall not in any way
affect the authority of the city to deny or issue a permit, or to inspect any
electrical construction work for conformity with this article.
§ 4-313 SAME; FEES.
   The fee for an electrical permit shall be as set by the governing body,
however, no fee shall be required to obtain a permit where the total estimated
cost, the reasonable value of all services, labor and materials required, as
set by the governing body. The fee herein shall be paid to the City Clerk upon
obtaining an electrical permit and the same shall be credited to the General
Operating Fund of the city.
§ 4-314 SAME; POSTING.
   A copy of the electrical permit shall be kept on the premises for public
inspection during the performance of the work and until the completion of the
same. The Electrical Inspector may require a certified copy of the approved
plans to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work
to the completion thereof.
§ 4-315 REQUEST FOR INSPECTION.
   Upon the completion of any electrical work covered by this article, it shall
be the duty of the person doing such work to notify the Electrical Inspector
and request that it be inspected; after which such work shall be inspected
promptly as hereinafter provided.
§ 4-316 INSPECTION; CONCEALMENT OF PRIOR WORK.
   (a)   When any electric equipment is to be hidden from view by the permanent
placement of parts of the building, the person, firm or corporation installing
the equipment shall notify the Building Inspector and such equipment shall not
be concealed until it has been inspected, approved or authorized by the
Electrical Inspector or until 24 hours, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays, shall have elapsed from the time of such notification. On large
installations, where the concealment of equipment proceeds continuously, the
person, firm or corporation installing the electrical equipment shall give the
Electrical Inspector due notice and inspections shall be made periodically
during the progress of the work.
   (b)   The Electrical Inspector shall have the authority to require building
contractors to open such work which, in any manner, conceals electrical wiring
that has been closed without his or her knowledge or permission, and in no case
shall the Inspector issue a certificate of approval until satisfied that the
work is in accordance with the provisions of this article. The Inspector shall
also have the right to refuse to issue a certificate of approval on any wiring,
that is concealed in such manner that it cannot be fully determined that it has
been done in accordance with this article.
§ 4-317 INSPECTION FEE.
   An initial inspection fee, as set by the governing body, and an inspection
fee, as set by the governing body, for subsequent inspections required shall be
paid before any electrical installation will be approved or a certificate of
approval issued.
§ 4-318 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   (a)   When the Electrical Inspector finds an electrical construction or
installation to be in conformity with the provisions of this article, he or she
shall issue to the person, firm or corporation performing the electrical
construction work or making the installation, a certificate of approval, with
duplicate copy for delivery to the owner, authorizing the use of the
installation and connection to the supply of electricity.
   (b)   When a certificate of approval is issued authorizing the connection
and use of a temporary installation, the certificate shall expire at a time to
be stated therein and shall be revocable for cause by the Electrical Inspector.
   (c)   In no case shall certificates of approval be issued on electrical
construction, installations or parts of installations where the work installed
does not conform to the requirements of this article.
   (d)   If, upon inspection, the installation is not found to be fully in
conformity with the provisions of this article, the Electrical Inspector shall
immediately notify the person, firm or corporation performing the electrical
construction work or making the installation of the existing defects.
   (e)   No certificate of approval shall be issued unless the electric
conductor or equipment has been installed in strict conformity with the
provisions of this article and unless the electrical construction or
installation is made in compliance with nationally approved methods of
construction for safety to life and property as herein set forth.
   (f)   The Electrical Inspector shall be deemed the judge of whether the
installation of electric conductors and equipment has been made in accordance
with the requirements of this article.
   (g)   No certificate of approval shall be required for any of the following:
      (1)   The replacement of lamps, fuses, bulbs or the connection of
portable electrical equipment to suitable permanently installed receptacles and
replacement of receptacles and switches, lighting fixtures and apparatus where
no changes or alterations are made to the wiring;
      (2)   Any work involved in the manufacturing, repair or testing of any
electrical equipment or apparatus, but not including any permanent wiring; or
      (3)   Any work in industrial establishments where inspections come under
the scope of other inspection agencies.
§ 4-319 CONNECTION TO INSTALLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make connection
to a supply of electricity to any building or electrical equipment for which an
inspection is required, or which has been disconnected by the order of the
Electrical Inspector, until a certificate of approval has been issued by the
Electrical Inspector authorizing the connection and use of such electric
supply. The Electrical Inspector may, at his or her discretion, authorize a
temporary connection.
§ 4-320 REINSPECTION.
   The Electrical Inspector shall periodically re-inspect existing
installations of electrical conductors and equipment. When the installation of
any conductors or equipment is found to be in a dangerous or unsafe condition,
the person, firm or corporation owning, using or operating the installation
shall be notified in writing and shall make the necessary repairs or changes
required to place the conductors or equipment in safe condition and have the
work completed within the period specified by the Electrical Inspector.
§ 4-321 CONDEMNATION; APPEAL.
   (a)   If, in the judgment of the Electrical Inspector, after an inspection,
any electrical conductors, appliances or equipment in any building are unsafe
or dangerous to persons or property, the Inspector shall have the power to
cause the wires or appliances to be disconnected from the source of electrical
energy supplying these conductors or equipment, and may, at his or her
discretion, seal the control switches for the same in an open or disconnected
position, whereupon he or she shall give notice to the owner, or his or her
agent, or by posting such notice at the site and shall also notify the
utilities serving the premises. Thereafter, it shall be unlawful for any person
to cause or permit electric current to be supplied to the electrical
conductors, appliances or equipment so sealed until they shall have been made
safe and the Inspector shall have issued a certificate of approval to that
effect.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the Electrical Inspector to cause all dead
wires, unused poles or electric apparatus on the outside of the buildings or in
streets or alleys to be removed at the expense of the owners thereof by giving
the owners written notice.
   (c)   When the Electrical Inspector condemns all or part of any electrical
installation, the owner may, within ten days after receiving written notice
thereof, file a petition in writing for review of the action of the Building
Inspector by the governing body, upon the receipt of which the governing body
shall at once proceed to determine the facts, and within ten days from
receiving the petition make a decision in accordance with their findings.
§ 4-322 INTERFERENCE BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSON.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to, in any manner, change
or alter electrical conductors or equipment in or on any building. If, in the
course of the erection of a building or structure, electrical conductors or
equipment are in such position as to interfere with the erection or completion
of the structure, notice shall be immediately given the authorized person or
firm installing the electrical conductors or equipment, and the needed change
shall be made by such authorized person or firm.
§ 4-323 ELECTRICIAN OR ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS DEFINED.
   (a)   An ELECTRICIAN or ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR for purposes of this article
shall be any person, firm, co-partnership, corporation, association or any
combination thereof, whether a resident or not of the city:
      (1)   Who or which undertakes with or for another, for a fixed sum,
price, fee or any other compensation to install, construct, alter, repair, add
to or move any electrical installation or performs any electrical construction
work in the city, for which an electrical construction permit may now or
hereafter be required by the laws of the city;
      (2)   Who or which advertises or represents himself, herself or itself to
the public to have the capacity or ability to undertake, or submit a bid or
offer to install, construct, alter, repair, add to, remove, restore or replace
any electrical installation or perform any electrical construction work; or
      (3)   Who or which installs, constructs, alters, adds to or removes any
electrical installation or performs any electrical construction work either on
his or her own or other property for purposes of sale or speculation.
   (b)   An ELECTRICIAN or ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR as defined shall not mean or
include:
      (1)   Any owner or his or her authorized agents or employees making
ordinary repairs to his, her or its own building or structure not involving
electrical construction and for which a permit is not required or on which an
electrician or electrical contractor, as defined, is not required, employed or
engaged to perform; or
      (2)   Any property owner personally performing any improvements,
alterations or electrical construction within or upon his or her own residence
and intended for his or her own personal use and permanent occupancy; provided,
the owner shall satisfy the Electrical Inspector as to his or her ability to
perform such work, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in accordance
with this article, and apply for an inspection and receive approval. Personal
electrical construction by an owner under this section shall be by himself,
herself, for himself or herself on his or her own residence, without
compensation and no person shall be employed to assist him or her in any way on
such work except an electrician or electrical contractor licensed by the city.
§ 4-324 ELECTRICIAN’S OR ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED; ELECTRICAL
PERMITS; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   Each electrician or electrical contractor shall, before entering upon
any electrical construction work subject to regulation by city laws, apply to
the City Clerk for an electrician’s or electrical contractor’s license and
receive the same as hereinafter provided and have in his or her possession a
valid license authorizing him, her or it to engage in the trade or occupation
of electrician or electrical contractor in the city.
   (b)   No permit for any electrical construction work shall be issued for any
such work to be performed by an electrician or electrical contractor, as
defined, who has not first obtained a license upon making a proper application
and payment of the license fee as required.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company, association or
corporation to enter into a contract or agreement with another so as to bring
himself, herself or itself under the definition of an electrician or electrical
contractor herein, or to perform any work as an electrician or electrical
contractor or any work under a contract for any work involving electrical
construction, without first having obtained an electrician’s or electrical
contractor’s license issued by the city.
§ 4-325 SAME; APPLICATION; GRANTING.
   Application for an electrician’s or electrical contractor’s license shall be
made upon a form to be supplied by the city which shall disclose the name of
the applicant, his or her place of business in the city (and home office if a
nonresident), the kind of contracting work engaged in the length of time
engaged in such work, and places where work has been performed within the past
two years. The application shall be signed by the electrician or electrical
contractor or his or her authorized agent. The applications shall be, by the
Chief Building Official, referred to the governing body at its next meeting for
action thereon. Such license shall be issued by the City Clerk, upon payment of
the fees hereinafter provided after approval of the governing body.
§ 4-326 SAME; LICENSE FEES; CONDITIONS; RENEWAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The following license fees shall be paid for the calendar year
or major fraction thereof:
         (A)   General electrician or electrical contractor, who shall qualify
to engage in more than one kind of electrical construction work, the sum as set
by the governing body; and
         (B)   Limited electrician or electrical contractor, who shall qualify
to engage in not more than one kind of electrical construction work, the sum as
set by the governing body.
      (2)   Any license issued on or after July 1 of each year shall be issued
upon payment of one-half the annual license fee.
   (b)   Each such license shall set forth the kind of electrical construction
work in which the licensee may engage. The licensee shall display his or her
license at any place where he or she may be engaged in contract work or produce
the same on demand of any city officer. All licenses shall be renewable
annually as in the case of an original license on or before January 1 of the
year for which issued.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to contract
for any kind of work covered by this article without having a valid license
issued by the city to perform such contracts.
§ 4-327 ELECTRICIAN’S OR ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR’S BOND REQUIRED; CONDITIONS;
APPROVAL; RIGHTS RESERVED.
   (a)   Before any license shall be issued to any electrician or electrical
contractor required by this article to obtain a license and pay a fee to the
city, the electrician or electrical contractor shall secure and file with the
City Clerk a good and sufficient corporate surety bond in the principal sum, as
set by the governing body conditioned that the principal named therein shall
faithfully and fully observe all laws of the city relating to the business or
occupation for which a license is desired and further conditioned to hold and
save the city harmless and free of claims for loss or damage to persons or
property, or from damage, injury or destruction of property belonging to the
city, resulting from, or arising out of, the negligence or failure of the
principal or any of his, her or its employees, agents or servants to use due
care or diligence respecting any opening or excavation made in, or adjacent to
any street, alley or public ground in the city, or any materials stored, placed
or used in any such places, or the operation or use of any vehicle, machinery
or equipment in the streets, alleys or public grounds in connection with the
business or occupation licensed. Each such bond shall be issued by a company
authorized to do business in the state and shall be executed by an agent of the
company residing in the county and further conditioned that in the event of
cancellation or expiration that the company or agent will give ten days’ notice
of such fact to the City Clerk. Each such bond shall be approved as to form by
the City Attorney and approved as to surety by City Accountant and the approval
thereof shall be endorsed on the bond by the City Attorney and by the Mayor
over their signatures.
   (b)   Each bond shall be dated to run from the first day of any license
issued by the city to the principal and may cover the period of not to exceed
two years. No bond shall be renewed by an extension certificate but a new bond
shall be filed by the principal for each successive period following the
renewal thereof. The city reserves the right to furnish the form of all surety
bonds as may be required by this article.
§ 4-328 INSURANCE.
   In addition to obtaining a corporate surety bond as required by §
4-327, an electrician or electrical contractor must procure and maintain a
liability insurance policy in the amount of $100,000 for the death or injury of
any one person and $300,000 for the death or injury of any number of persons in
any one accident and $50,000 for property damage in any one accident. Such
policies of insurance shall be issued by some insurance company authorized to
do business in the state. An electrician or electrical contractor may qualify
as to the insurance requirements by filing a certificate with the City Clerk
executed by the resident agent of such company stating that the required policy
of insurance has been issued by such company for the purpose required by this
article and that such insurer will not cancel the policy except upon giving 30
days’ notice in writing to the city; and that the certificate shall be filed
for an annual period beginning January 1 and ending December 31 of such year.
§ 4-329 LICENSE SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; APPEAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The license of any electrician or electrical contractor may be
suspended temporarily, for a period of not to exceed 30 days at any one time,
by the Chief Building Official upon his or her own motion or upon a complaint
of the City Electrical Inspector.
      (2)   Notice shall be given in writing to such electrician or electrical
contractor giving reasonable notice of a time of hearing of the complaint or
the matter alleged against such electrician or electrical contractor involving
any one or more of the following:
         (A)   Misrepresentation of a material fact by applicant in obtaining a
license;
         (B)   Use of license to obtain an electrical permit for another;
         (C)   Failure or neglect to observe conditions of permit authorizing
encumbering of streets or sidewalks for safety of public;
         (D)   Performance of any electrical construction work without a permit
where one is required by law; or
         (E)   Willful disregard of any violation of the electrical
construction laws, or failure to comply with any lawful order of the City
Electrical Inspector.
   (b)   Any licensee may, within 15 days, appeal in writing to the governing
body from any order of the Chief Building Official suspending his or her
license for its final decision thereon. The governing body may upon such
hearing terminate such suspension within not more than 30 days thereafter, or
may revoke such license. If any license shall be revoked, the electrician or
electrical contractor shall not be eligible for a new license during a period
of six months thereafter. No fee shall be refunded in event of the suspension
or revocation of any electricians or electrical contractor’s license.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the occupation or trade of
electrician or electrical contractor during the time any license of such
electrician or electrical contractor has been suspended or revoked.
§ 4-330 WORK BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from personally
performing any electrical construction or installing electrical wiring or
equipment within and upon his or her own residence and intended for his or her
personal use and permanent occupancy; provided, the owner shall satisfy the
Electrical Inspector as to his or her ability to perform such work or install
such electrical wiring, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in
accordance with this article, and apply for an inspection and receive a
certificate of approval. Personal electrical construction or installation
performed by an owner under this section shall be by himself, herself, for
himself or herself on his or her own residence, without compensation and no
person shall be employed to assist him or her in any way on such work except an
electrician or electrical contractor licensed by the city.
§ 4-331 APPROVED MATERIALS.
   No electric materials for wiring of appliances or equipment shall be
installed in the city unless they are in conformity with the provisions of this
article and with the approved standards of construction for safety to life and
property. Conformity of materials for wiring appliances and equipment to the
standards of the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. shall be prima facie evidence
that the materials, devices, appliances and equipment comply with the
requirements of this article.
§ 4-332 LIABILITY.
   This article shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or
installing any electrical equipment for damages to persons or property caused
by any defect therein, nor shall the city be held as assuming any such
liability, by reason of the inspection or re-inspection authorized herein, or
the certificate of approval of any work or equipment authorized herein or by
reason of any permit or license granted herein.
§ 4-333 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of the National Electrical Code or of this article shall be
held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then such section shall be considered separate and apart from the
remaining provisions of the National Electrical Code or of this article, the
section is to be completely severable from the remaining provisions which shall
continue in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 4: PLUMBING AND GAS-FITTING CODE
Section
   
4-401   Definition
   
4-402   International Plumbing Code incorporated
   
4-403   Additional provisions
   
4-404   Building Official; authority
   
4-405   Plumbing Inspector; appointment
   
4-406   Same; duties
   
4-407   Same; powers
   
4-408   Same; right of entry
   
4-409   Clarification; modification
   
4-410   Plumbing permit required; exception
   
4-411   Same; application information required
   
4-412   Same; plans and specifications
   
4-413   Same; fees
   
4-414   Same; posting
   
4-415   Request for inspection
   
4-416   Inspection; concealment of prior work
   
4-417   Inspection fee
   
4-418   Certificate of approval
   
4-419   Connection to gas or water supply
   
4-420   Condemnation; appeal
   
4-421   Plumber or plumbing contractor; defined
   
4-422   Plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license required; plumbing permits;
unlawful acts
   
4-423   Same; application; granting
   
4-424   Same; license fees; conditions; renewal; unlawful acts
   
4-425   Plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s bond required; conditions; approval;
rights reserved
   
4-426   Insurance
   
4-427   License suspension; revocation; appeal; unlawful acts
   
4-428   Excavations
   
4-429   Work by property owners
   
4-430   Approved materials
   
4-431   Liability
   
4-432   Severability
§ 4-401 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PLUMBING. The installation of gas or water pipes, fixtures, apparatus and
the necessary connections either for supplying gas or water to premises or for
the removing of liquid and water-borne wastes from premises in the city, or
both such purposes, and shall also denote installed fixtures, drainage and vent
systems and gas or water distribution systems as the case may be.
§ 4-402 INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE INCORPORATED.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of adopting a
complete set of plumbing related regulations within the corporate limits of the
city that certain code known as the “International Plumbing Code,” Edition of
2018. No fewer than two copies of said International Plumbing Code shall be
marked or stamped “Official Copy as Incorporated by the Code of the City of
Linwood, Kansas,” and to which shall be attached a copy of Ord. 729-2022, and
filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public
at all reasonable hours.
(Ord. 729-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 4-403 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The following sections of this article are in addition to the provisions of
the standard code incorporated by reference in §
4-402.
§ 4-404 BUILDING OFFICIAL; AUTHORITY.
   The person designed by the city or his or her authorized designee shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this article and
appointment of a Plumbing Inspector in accordance with §
4-204, which apply in a like manner to this article.
§ 4-405 PLUMBING INSPECTOR; APPOINTMENT.
   The person designated by the city may assume the responsibilities of or
appoint some qualified officer or employee of the city to be and perform the
duties of Plumbing Inspector as may be required, subject to the consent and
approval of the governing body.
§ 4-406 SAME; DUTIES.
   The Plumbing Inspector shall have the following duties:
   (a)   To enforce all regulations relating to plumbing construction,
alteration, repair or removal;
   (b)   May permit, with the approval of the governing body, on the basis of
duly authenticated reports from recognized sources, the use of new materials or
modes of construction, not provided for in this article, and may, for the
purpose of carrying out the intent of this article adopt an accepted standard
of material or workmanlike practices of federal or state bureaus, national,
technical organizations or fire underwriters;
   (c)   To examine all buildings in the process of erection, construction,
alteration or relocation in the city for the purpose of determining whether the
work is in compliance with the plumbing permit given and in compliance with the
regulations of the city pertaining to such work, including zoning regulations;
and
   (d)   To keep comprehensive records of applications, of permits or
certificates issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered, and of notices
or orders issued. All such records shall be open to public inspection during
stated office hours, but shall not be removed from the office of the Building
Official or Plumbing Inspector without his or her written consent.
§ 4-407 SAME; POWERS.
   The Plumbing Inspector shall have the following powers:
   (a)   To enter any building or structure or premises at any reasonable hour,
whether complete or in the process of erection, to perform the duties contained
in this article;
   (b)   To adopt and enforce all such prudent emergency measures as he or she
may deem necessary and expedient for the public safety under the laws of the
city; and
   (c)   May cause any work done in violation of this article to be
discontinued until he or she shall have satisfactory evidence that the work
will be done in accordance with the plumbing regulations of the city, subject
to the right of any plumber, plumbing contractor or owner to appeal to the
governing body.
§ 4-408 SAME; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Plumbing Inspector, or his or her agent, upon proper identification,
shall have authority to enter any building, structure or premises at any
reasonable hour to perform his or her duties as set out in this article.
§ 4-409 CLARIFICATION; MODIFICATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall be the final determiner of the scope and
meaning of all provisions of the Plumbing Code which may be unclear, ambiguous
or requiring interpretation.
   (b)   The Plumbing Inspector shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Plumbing Code upon application in writing by the owner or
lessee or his or her authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code. In approving
modifications, the Plumbing Inspector shall see that the spirit of the code is
observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars
of a modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the Inspector
thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Plumbing Inspector and a
signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
§ 4-410 PLUMBING PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to install, alter or reconstruct any plumbing or
plumbing system, as defined by the Plumbing Code and § 4-401, in any building
in the city without first making application to and receiving a permit therefor
from the City Clerk, after approval by the Chief Building Official or his or
her authorized assistant. The application for such permit shall be made and the
permit obtained before any plumbing work is commenced.
   (b)   No permit shall be required for making minor repairs of any plumbing
including repair of leaks in water pipes, traps or cocks, opening up stoppage
in waste or supply pipes, traps or drains, replacing fixtures when waste pipes
are not disturbed, or replacing frozen pipes inside the building, and like
repair work not involving original installation or reconstruction.
§ 4-411 SAME; APPLICATION INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   A plumbing permit shall be issued upon an application in writing
to the office of City Clerk on a form or forms provided for the purpose.
      (2)   This application shall, among other things, disclose the following:
         (A)   The name of the owner of the lot or tract of ground;
         (B)   The location of the building or structure;
         (C)   The plumbing work proposed;
         (D)   The class of occupancy;
         (E)   The class of construction;
         (F)   The kind of materials to be used;
         (G)   The estimated cost of the work;
         (H)   The date work will commence;
         (I)   Expected date of completion;
         (J)   Name and address of plumber, plumbing contractor or contractors
doing the work; and
         (K)   Such other information as may be pertinent to the issuance of
the required permit.
   (b)   An application for a plumbing permit shall be signed by the owner or
his or her duly authorized agent, or a plumber or plumbing contractor licensed
by the city. If the application is made by the owner or his or her agent, it
shall contain the name or names of the licensed plumber, plumbing contractor or
contractors doing the work described, or a plumbing permit may be issued to the
owner upon his or her application disclosing satisfactory evidence that the
proposed work will be performed by the owner, himself or herself and not by a
licensed plumber or plumbing contractor, and likewise subject to the final
approval of the Plumbing Inspector for work performed.
   (c)   Upon approval of the completed application and a determination that a
permit should be issued, the Chief Building Official or his or her assistant
shall issue a permit to the owner or contractor authorizing the plumbing work
covered by the application.
   (d)   Any permit issued under this section shall be valid and subsisting for
a period of not more than six months from the date of issuance unless the
permittee shall have commenced, within the period so limited, the plumbing work
authorized by such permit. Plumbing work commenced for the purpose of this
section shall mean the beginning of plumbing work other than the preparation of
plans or the letting of a plumbing contract.
§ 4-412 SAME; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Whenever an application for a plumbing permit is made, the Chief Building
Official or the Plumbing Inspector may, if he or she finds it necessary to
determine whether work described in the application will comply with the laws
pertaining to such work, require that the applicant file a written description
or drawing of the proposed plumbing construction as may be prepared for the
purpose. If such drawing or description is insufficient for the purposes of
determining whether a permit should be issued, the Chief Building Official or
the Plumbing Inspector may require the applicant to file complete architectural
and engineering plans and specifications for such building or construction, or
any part thereof, as may be necessary for the Inspector to determine compliance
with this article. The filing of such plans and specifications and the approval
thereof in connection with an application for a permit shall not in any way
affect the authority of the city to deny or issue a permit, or to inspect any
plumbing work for conformity with this article.
§ 4-413 SAME; FEES.
   The fee for a plumbing permit, as set by the governing body, shall be
required to obtain a permit where the total estimated cost, the reasonable
value of all services, labor and materials required, as set by the governing
body. The fee herein shall be paid to the City Clerk upon obtaining a plumbing
permit and the same shall be credited to the General Operating Fund of the
city.
§ 4-414 SAME; POSTING.
   A copy of the plumbing permit shall be kept on the premises for public
inspection during the performance of the work and until the completion of the
same. The Plumbing Inspector may require a certified copy of the approved plans
to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work to
the completion thereof.
§ 4-415 REQUEST FOR INSPECTION.
   Upon the completion of any plumbing work covered by this article, it shall
be the duty of the person doing such work to notify the Plumbing Inspector and
request that it be inspected; after which such work shall be inspected promptly
as hereinafter provided.
§ 4-416 INSPECTION; CONCEALMENT OF PRIOR WORK.
   (a)   When any plumbing is to be hidden from view by the permanent placement
of parts of the building, the person, firm or corporation installing the
plumbing shall notify the Plumbing Inspector and such equipment shall not be
concealed until it has been inspected, approved or authorized by the Plumbing
Inspector or until 24 hours, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays,
shall have elapsed from the time of such notification. On large installations,
where the concealment of plumbing proceeds continuously, the person, firm or
corporation installing the plumbing shall give the Plumbing Inspector due
notice and inspections shall be made periodically during the progress of the
work.
   (b)   The Plumbing Inspector shall have the authority to require owners or
contractors to open such work which, in any manner, conceals plumbing that has
been closed without his or her knowledge or permission, and in no case shall
the Inspector issue a certificate of approval until satisfied that the work is
in accordance with the provisions of this article. The Inspector shall also
have the right to refuse to issue a certificate of approval on any plumbing,
that is concealed in such manner that it cannot be fully determined that it has
been done in accordance with this article.
§ 4-417 INSPECTION FEE.
   An initial inspection fee, as set by the governing body, and an inspection
fee, as set by the governing body, for subsequent inspections required shall be
paid before any plumbing will be approved or a certificate of approval issued.
§ 4-418 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   (a)   When the Plumbing Inspector finds plumbing construction to be in
conformity with the provisions of this article, he or she shall issue to the
person, firm or corporation performing the plumbing construction, a certificate
of approval, with duplicate copy for delivery to the owner, authorizing the use
of the plumbing system and connection to the supply of gas or water, as the
case may be.
   (b)   When a certificate of approval is issued authorizing the connection
and use of a temporary gas or water supply, the certificate shall expire at a
time to be stated therein and shall be revocable for cause by the Plumbing
Inspector.
   (c)   In no case shall certificates of approval be issued on plumbing or
plumbing systems or parts of systems where the work installed does not conform
to the requirements of this article.
   (d)   If, upon inspection, the plumbing or plumbing system is not found to
be fully in conformity with the provisions of this article, the Plumbing
Inspector shall immediately notify the person, firm or corporation making the
installation of the existing defects.
   (e)   No certificate of approval shall be issued unless the plumbing or
plumbing system has been installed in strict conformity with the provisions of
this article and unless the plumbing or plumbing system is made in compliance
with nationally approved methods of construction for safety to life and
property as herein set forth.
   (f)   The Plumbing Inspector shall be deemed the judge of whether the
plumbing or plumbing system has been made in accordance with the requirements
of this article.
   (g)   No certificate of approval shall be required for making minor repairs
of any plumbing including repair of leaks in water pipes, traps or cocks,
opening up stoppage in waste or supply pipes, traps or drains, replacing
fixtures when waste pipes are not disturbed, or replacing frozen pipes inside
the building, and like repair work not involving original installation or
reconstruction.
§ 4-419 CONNECTION TO GAS OR WATER SUPPLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make connection
to a supply of gas or water for which an inspection is required, or which has
been disconnected by the order of the Plumbing Inspector, until a certificate
of approval has been issued by the Plumbing Inspector authorizing the
connection and use of such plumbing or plumbing system. The Plumbing Inspector
may, at his or her discretion, authorize a temporary connection.
§ 4-420 CONDEMNATION; APPEAL.
   (a)   If in the judgment of the Plumbing Inspector, after inspection, the
plumbing or plumbing system in any building are unsafe or dangerous to persons
or property, the Inspector shall have the power to cause the plumbing or
plumbing system to be disconnected from the supply of gas or water and may, at
his or her discretion, seal the control valves for the same in a closed or
disconnected position, whereupon he or she shall give notice to the owner, or
his or her agent, or by posting such notice at the site and shall also notify
the utilities serving the premises. Thereafter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to cause or permit gas or water to be supplied to the plumbing or
plumbing system so sealed until they shall have been made safe and the
Inspector shall have issued a certificate of approval to that effect.
   (b)   When the Plumbing Inspector condemns all or part of any plumbing
system, the owner may, within ten days after receiving written notice thereof,
file a petition in writing for review of the action of the Plumbing Inspector
by the governing body, upon the receipt of which the governing body shall at
once proceed to determine the facts, and within ten days from receiving the
petition make a decision in accordance with their findings.
§ 4-421 PLUMBER OR PLUMBING CONTRACTOR; DEFINED.
   (a)   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PLUMBER or PLUMBING CONTRACTOR.
         (A)   Any person engaged in the business of installing, altering,
maintaining or repairing plumbing, which shall include all materials and
plumbing fixtures, water pipes, portable water treatment equipment, traps,
drainage and vent piping, and building drains, including their respective
points, connections, devices, receptacles and appurtenances located within the
property lines of any premises or in any building; and
         (B)   Any gasfitter or person engaged in the business of installing,
altering or repairing fuel gas piping, gas systems or fixtures.
   (b)   A plumber or plumbing contractor as defined in division (a) above
shall not mean or include the owner of a residence who personally installs
plumbing piping or equipment within and upon his or her own residence and
intended for his or her own personal use and permanent occupancy; provided, the
owner shall satisfy the Plumbing Inspector as to his or her ability to install
such piping or equipment, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in
accordance with this article and apply for an inspection and receive approval.
Personal installation by an owner under this section shall be himself, herself,
for himself or herself on his or her own residence, without compensation and no
person shall be employed to assist him or her in any way on such work except a
plumber or plumbing contractor licensed by the city.
§ 4-422 PLUMBER’S OR PLUMBING CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED; PLUMBING PERMITS;
UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   Each plumber or plumbing contractor shall, before entering upon any
plumbing work subject to regulation by city laws, apply to the City Clerk for a
plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license and receive the same as hereinafter
provided and have in his or her possession a valid license authorizing him, her
or it to engage in the trade or occupation of a plumber or plumbing contractor
in the city.
   (b)   No permit for any plumbing work shall be issued for any such work to
be performed by a plumber or plumbing contractor, as defined, who has not first
obtained a license upon making a proper application and payment of the license
fee as required.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company, association or
corporation to enter into a contract or agreement with another so as to bring
himself, herself or itself under the definition of a plumber or plumbing
contractor herein, or to perform any work as a plumber or plumbing contractor
or any work under a contract for any work involving plumbing construction,
without first having obtained a plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license
issued by the city.
§ 4-423 SAME; APPLICATION; GRANTING.
   Application for a plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license shall be made
upon a form to be supplied by the city which shall disclose the name of the
applicant, his or her place of business in the city (and home office if a
nonresident), the kind of contracting work engaged in, the length of time
engaged in such work and places where work has been performed within the past
two years. The application shall be signed by the plumber or plumbing
contractor or his or her authorized agent. The applications shall be, by the
Chief Building Official referred to the governing body at its next meeting for
action thereon. Such license shall be issued by the City Clerk, upon payment of
the fees hereinafter provided after approval of the governing body.
§ 4-424 SAME; LICENSE FEES; CONDITIONS; RENEWAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The following license fees shall be paid for the calendar year
or major fraction thereof:
         (A)   General plumber or plumbing contractor, who shall qualify to
engage in more than one kind of plumbing work, the sum as set by the governing
body; and
         (B)   Limited plumber or plumbing contractor, who shall qualify to
engage in not more than one kind of plumbing work, the sum as set by the
governing body.
      (2)   Any license issued on or after July 1 of each year shall be issued
upon payment of one-half the annual license fee.
   (b)   Each such license shall set forth the kind of plumbing work in which
the licensee may engage. The licensee shall display his or her license at any
place where he or she may be engaged in plumbing work or produce the same on
demand of any city officer. All licenses shall be renewable annually as in the
case of an original license on or before January 1 of the year for which
issued.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to contract
for any kind of work covered by this article without having a valid license
issued by the city to perform such contracts.
§ 4-425 PLUMBER’S OR PLUMBING CONTRACTOR’S BOND REQUIRED; CONDITIONS; APPROVAL;
RIGHTS RESERVED.
   (a)   Before any license shall be issued to any plumber or plumbing
contractor required by this article to obtain a license and pay a fee to the
city, the plumber or plumbing contractor shall secure and file with the City
Clerk a good and sufficient corporate surety bond in the principal sum, as set
by the governing body conditioned that the principal named therein shall
faithfully and fully observe all laws of the city relating to the business or
occupation for which a license is desired and further conditioned to hold and
save the city harmless and free of claims for loss or damage to persons or
property, or from damage, injury or destruction of property belonging to the
city, resulting from, or arising out of, the negligence or failure of the
principal or any of his, her or its employees, agents or servants to use due
care or diligence respecting any opening or excavation made in, or adjacent to
any street, alley or public ground in the city, or any materials stored, placed
or used in any such places, or the operation or use of any vehicle, machinery
or equipment in the streets, alleys or public grounds in connection with the
business or occupation licensed. Each such bond shall be issued by a company
authorized to do business in the state and shall be executed by an agent of the
company residing in the county and further conditioned that in the event of
cancellation or expiration that the company or agent will give ten days’ notice
of such fact to the City Clerk. Each such bond shall be approved as to form by
the City Attorney and approved as to surety by the City Accountant and the
approval thereof shall be endorsed on the bond by the City Attorney and by the
Mayor over their signatures.
   (b)   Each bond shall be dated to run from the first day of any license
issued by the city to the principal and may cover the period of not to exceed
two years. No bond shall be renewed by an extension certificate but a new bond
shall be filed by the principal for each successive period following the
renewal thereof. The city reserves the right to furnish the form of all surety
bonds as may be required by this article.
§ 4-426 INSURANCE.
   In addition to obtaining a corporate surety bond as required by §
4-425, a plumber or plumbing contractor must procure and maintain a liability
insurance policy in the amount of $100,000 for the death or injury of any one
person and $300,000 for the death or injury of any number of persons in any one
accident and $50,000 for property damage in any one accident. Such policies of
insurance shall be issued by some insurance company authorized to do business
in the state. A plumber or plumbing contractor may qualify as to the insurance
requirements by filing a certificate with the City Clerk executed by the
resident agent of such company stating that the required policy of insurance
has been issued by such company for the purpose required by this article and
that such insurer will not cancel the policy except upon giving 30 days’ notice
in writing to the city; and that the certificate shall be filed for an annual
period beginning January 1 and ending December 31 of such year.
§ 4-427 LICENSE SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; APPEAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The license of any plumber or plumbing contractor may be
suspended temporarily, for a period of not to exceed 30 days at any one time,
by the Chief Building Official upon his or her own motion or upon a complaint
of the City Plumbing Inspector.
      (2)   Notice shall be given in writing to such plumber or plumbing
contractor giving reasonable notice of a time of hearing of the complaint or
the matter alleged against such plumber or plumbing contractor involving any
one or more of the following:
         (A)   Misrepresentation of a material fact by applicant in obtaining a
license;
         (B)   Use of license to obtain a plumbing permit for another;
         (C)   Failure or neglect to observe conditions of a permit authorizing
encumbering of streets or sidewalks for safety of public;
         (D)   Performance of any plumbing work without a permit where one is
required by law; or
         (E)   Willful disregard of any violation of the plumbing laws, or
failure to comply with any lawful order of the City Plumbing Inspector.
   (b)   Any licensee may, within 15 days, appeal in writing to the governing
body from any order of the Chief Building Official suspending his or her
license for its final decision thereon. The governing body may, upon such
hearing, terminate such suspension within not more than 30 days thereafter, or
may revoke such license. If any license shall be revoked, the plumber or
plumbing contractor shall not be eligible for a new license during a period of
six months thereafter. No fee shall be refunded in event of the suspension or
revocation of any plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the occupation or trade of plumber
or plumbing contractor during the time any license of such plumber or plumbing
contractor has been suspended or revoked.
§ 4-428 EXCAVATIONS.
   When it appears that the laying or repairing of any water or sewer pipes or
the making of any connection therewith shall require excavation in any street,
alley or public way of the city or the cutting or removal of any pavement, curb
or gutter or any sidewalk, during the course of such work, the application for
a permit shall so state and describe the location and extent of the excavation,
cutting or removal. Before the City Clerk shall issue any permit for such work,
the applicant shall pay any fee required by this code. All excavations shall be
barricaded and guarded as provided by the appropriate sections of this code.
Before any such excavation shall be backfilled, new plumbing work therein shall
be inspected and the bottom of the excavation holding any sewer, drain or water
pipe shall be so filled, leveled and tamped as to properly support the pipe and
permit proper drainage when carrying sewage, and the excavation shall be
backfilled and all paving, curbing, guttering or sidewalks shall be restored as
near as possible to their last condition, subject always to the approval of the
Plumbing Inspector or the Superintendent of Streets.
§ 4-429 WORK BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from personally
installing plumbing piping or equipment within and upon his or her own
residence and intended for his or her personal use and permanent occupancy;
provided, the owner shall satisfy the Plumbing Inspector as to his or her
ability to install such piping or equipment, secure a permit, pay required
fees, do work in accordance with this article, and apply for an inspection and
receive approval. Personal installation by an owner under this section shall be
by himself, herself, for himself or herself on his or her own residence,
without compensation and no person shall be employed to assist him or her in
any way on such work except a plumber or plumbing contractor licensed by the
city.
§ 4-430 APPROVED MATERIALS.
   No plumbing materials, appliances or equipment shall be installed in the
city unless they are in conformity with the provisions of this article and with
the approved standards of construction for safety to life and property.
Conformity of materials for plumbing materials, appliances and equipment to the
standards of the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. shall be prima facie evidence
that the materials, devices, appliances and equipment comply with the
requirements of this article.
§ 4-431 LIABILITY.
   This article shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or
performing any plumbing construction for damages to persons or property caused
by any defect therein, nor shall the city be held as assuming any such
liability, by reason of the inspection or re-inspection authorized herein, or
the certificate of approval of any work or equipment authorized herein or by
reason of any permit or license granted herein.
§ 4-432 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of the Uniform Plumbing Code or of this article shall be held
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
then such section shall be considered separate and apart from the remaining
provisions of the Uniform Plumbing Code or of this article, the section is to
be completely severable from the remaining provisions which shall continue in
full force and effect.
ARTICLE 5: MOVING BUILDINGS
Section
   
4-501   Building Official; authority
   
4-502   Permit required
   
4-503   Same: application for permit
   
4-504   Same; bond, insurance required
   
4-505   Same; fee
   
4-506   Contractor; license required; fee
   
4-507   Route; duties of Building Official
   
4-508   Notice to owners
   
4-509   Duty of owners
   
4-510   Interfering with poles; wires
   
4-511   Display of lanterns
§ 4-501 BUILDING OFFICIAL; AUTHORITY.
   The person designated by the city or his or her authorized designee shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this article and
appointment of an inspector in accordance with §§
4-204 through
4-209, which apply in a like manner to this article.
§ 4-502 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall move, haul or transport any house,
building, derrick or other structure of the height when loaded for movement of
16 feet or more from the surface of the highway, road, street or alley, or a
width of eight feet or more or which cannot be moved at a speed of four mph or
faster, upon, across or over any street, alley or sidewalk in this city without
first obtaining a permit therefor.
(K.S.A. 17-1914)
§ 4-503 SAME: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   All applications for permits required under the provisions of this article
shall be made in writing to the City Clerk specifying the day and hour said
moving is to commence and the route through the city’s streets over which the
house, building, derrick or other structure shall be moved and stating whether
it will be necessary to cut and move, raise or in any way interfere with any
wires, cables or other aerial equipment of any public or municipally-owned
utility, and if so, the application shall also state the name of the public or
municipally-owned utility, and the time and location that the applicant’s
moving operations shall necessitate the cutting, moving, raising or otherwise
interfering with such aerial facilities.
(K.S.A. 17-1915)
§ 4-504 SAME; BOND, INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of any person at the time of making application
for a permit as provided in this article to give a good and sufficient surety
bond to the city, to be approved by the governing body, indemnifying the city
against any loss or damage resulting from the failure of any such person to
comply with the provisions of this article or for any damage or injury caused
in moving any such house or structure. The bond herein shall be in the sum of
$5,000, or cash may be deposited in lieu of such surety bond.
   (b)   A public liability insurance policy issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state, in the amount of $100,000 per person,
$300,000 per accident as to personal injury, and $50,000 property damage may be
permitted in lieu of a bond.
§ 4-505 SAME; FEE.
   Before any permit to move any house or structure is given under the
provisions of this article, the applicant shall pay a fee of not less than $5
to the City Clerk, plus the additional cost for the time for any city crews
involved in such moving.
§ 4-506 CONTRACTOR; LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   The provisions of §§
4-219 through
4-225 shall apply in a like manner to this article.
§ 4-507 ROUTE; DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The City Clerk shall, upon filing of the above application, refer the same
to the Chief Building Official or his or her authorized designee to check the
proposed route and determine if it is practical to move such house or other
structure over the route proposed. If it shall appear that such route is not
practical, and another route may be used equally well with less danger to
street and travel, then he or she may designate such other route as the one to
be used and shall notify the applicant of the same. The Building Official may
also require the planking of any street, bridge or culvert or any part thereof
to prevent damage thereto. It shall also be the duty of the Chief Building
Official or his or her authorized designee to inspect the progress of moving
any house or other structure to see that the same is being moved in accordance
with the provisions of this article.
§ 4-508 NOTICE TO OWNERS.
   (a)   Upon issuance of a moving permit, the applicant shall give not less
than 15 days’ written notice to any person owning or operating any wires,
cables or other aerial equipment along the proposed route of the intent to move
the structure, giving the time and location that the applicants moving
operation shall necessitate the cutting, moving, raising or interfering of any
wires, cables or other aerial equipment.
   (b)   The notice provision of division (a) above shall not apply where the
person owning or operating any wires, cables or other aerial equipment has
waived their right to advance notice.
   (c)   Should the moving operation be delayed, the applicant shall give the
owner or his or her agent not less than 24 hours’ advance notice of the actual
operation.
(K.S.A. 17-1916)
§ 4-509 DUTY OF OWNERS.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the person or the city owning or operating
such poles or wires after service of notice as provided herein, to furnish
competent lineman or workers to remove such poles, or raise or cut such wires
as will be necessary to facilitate the moving of such house or structure. The
necessary expense which is incurred thereby shall be paid by the holder of the
moving permit.
   (b)   The owner of any wires, cables or other aerial equipment, after
service of notice as provided in §
4-508, shall be liable to the permit holder for damages in an amount not to
exceed $100 per day for each day the owner shall fail or refuse to accommodate
the permit holder’s moving operations.
(K.S.A. 17-1917)
§ 4-510 INTERFERING WITH POLES; WIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in moving any house or other
structure to raise, cut or in any way interfere with any wires or poles bearing
wires or any other aerial equipment.
(K.S.A. 17-1918)
§ 4-511 DISPLAY OF LANTERNS.
   It shall be the duty of any person moving any of the structures mentioned in
this article upon or across any street, alley or sidewalk or other public
place, in this city, to display red lanterns thereon in such a manner as to
show the extreme height and width thereof from sunset to sunrise.
ARTICLE 6: DANGEROUS AND UNFIT STRUCTURES
Section
   
4-601   Purpose
   
4-602   Definitions
   
4-603   Enforcing officer; duties
   
4-604   Procedure; petition
   
4-605   Same; notice
   
4-606   Same; publication
   
4-607   Same; hearing, order
   
4-608   Duty of owner
   
4-609   Same; failure to comply
   
4-610   Same; make site safe
   
4-611   Assessment of costs
   
4-612   Immediate hazard
   
4-613   Appeals from order
   
4-614   Scope of article
   
4-615   International Residential Code incorporated
§ 4-601 PURPOSE.
   The governing body has found that there exists within the corporate limits
of the city structures which are unfit for human use or habitation because of
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire or accidents, structural
defects or other conditions which render such structures unsafe, unsanitary or
otherwise inimical to the general welfare of the city, or conditions which
provide a general blight upon the neighborhood or surrounding properties. It is
hereby deemed necessary by the governing body to require or cause the repair,
closing or demolition or removal of such structures as provided in this
article.
(K.S.A. 12-1751)
§ 4-602 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENFORCING OFFICER. The person designated by the city or his or her
authorized representative.
   STRUCTURE. Includes any building, wall, superstructure or other structure
which requires location on the ground, or is attached to something having a
location on the ground.
(K.S.A. 12-1750)
§ 4-603 ENFORCING OFFICER; DUTIES.
   The enforcing officer is hereby authorized to exercise such powers as may be
necessary to carry out the purposes of this article, including the following:
   (a)   Inspect any structure which appears to be unsafe, dangerous or unfit
for human habitation;
   (b)   Have authority to enter upon premises at reasonable hours for the
purpose of making such inspections. Entry shall be made so as to cause the
least possible inconvenience to any person in possession of the structure. If
entry is denied, the enforcing officer may seek an order for this purpose from
a court of competent jurisdiction;
   (c)   Report all structures which he or she believes to be dangerous, unsafe
or unfit for human habitation to the governing body; and
   (d)   Receive petitions as provided in this article.
§ 4-604 PROCEDURE; PETITION.
   Whenever a petition is filed with the enforcing officer by at least five
residents charging that any structure is dangerous, unsafe or unfit for human
habitation, or whenever it appears to the enforcing officer on his or her own
motion that any structure is dangerous, unsafe or unfit for human habitation,
he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for
such charges, report such findings to the governing body.
§ 4-605 SAME; NOTICE.
   The governing body, upon receiving a report as provided in §
4-604, shall by resolution fix a time and place at which the owner, the owner’s
agent, any lienholder of records and any occupant of the structure may appear
and show cause why the structure should not be condemned and ordered repaired
or demolished.
(K.S.A. 12-1752)
§ 4-606 SAME; PUBLICATION.
   (a)   The resolution shall be published once each week for two consecutive
weeks on the same day of each week. At least 30 days shall elapse between the
last publication and the date set for the hearing.
   (b)   A copy of the resolution shall be mailed by certified mail within
three days after its first publication to each owner, agent, lienholder and
occupant at the last known place of residence and shall be marked “deliver to
addressee only”.
(K.S.A. 12-1752)
§ 4-607 SAME; HEARING, ORDER.
   If, after notice and hearing, the governing body determines that the
structure under consideration is dangerous, unsafe or unfit for human use or
habitation, it shall state in writing its findings of fact in support of such
determination and shall cause the resolution to be published once in the
official city newspaper and a copy mailed to the owners, agents, lienholders of
record and occupants in the same manner provided for the notice of hearing. The
resolution shall fix a reasonable time within which the repair or removal of
such structure shall be commenced and a statement that if the owner of such
structure fails to commence the repair or removal of such structure within the
time stated or fails to diligently prosecute the same until the work is
completed, the governing body will cause the structure to be razed and removed.
§ 4-608 DUTY OF OWNER.
   Whenever any structure within the city shall be found to be dangerous,
unsafe or unfit for human use or habitation, it shall be the duty and
obligation of the owner of the property to render the same secure and safe, or
to remove the same.
§ 4-609 SAME; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (a)   If, within the time specified in the order, the owner fails to comply
with the order to repair, alter, improve or vacate the structure, the enforcing
officer may cause the structure to be repaired, altered, improved or to be
vacated and closed.
   (b)   If, within the time specified in the order, the owner fails to comply
with the order to remove or demolish the structure, the enforcing officer may
cause the structure to be removed and demolished.
§ 4-610 SAME; MAKE SITE SAFE.
   Upon removal of any structure, the owner shall fill any basement or other
excavation located upon the premises and take any other action necessary to
leave the premises in a safe condition. If the owner fails to take such action,
the enforcing officer may proceed to make the site safe.
§ 4-611 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (a)   The cost to the city of any repairs, alterations, improvements,
vacating, removal or demolition by the enforcing officer, including making the
site safe, shall be reported to the City Clerk.
   (b)   The city shall give notice to the owner of the structure by restricted
mail of the cost of removing the structure and making the premises safe and
secure. The notice shall also state that payment of the cost is due and payable
within 30 days following receipt of the notice.
   (c)   If the costs remain unpaid after 30 days following receipt of notice,
the City Clerk may sell any salvage from the structure and apply the proceeds
or any necessary portion thereof to pay the cost of removing the structure and
making the site safe. Any proceeds in excess of that required to recover the
costs shall be paid to the owner of the premises upon which the structure was
located.
   (d)   If the proceeds of the sale of salvage or from the proceeds of any
insurance policy in which the city has created a lien pursuant to K.S.A. 40-
3901 et seq., and amendments thereto, are insufficient to recover the above
stated costs, or if there is no salvage, the balance shall be collected in the
manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or shall be
assessed as special assessments against the lot or parcel of land on which the
structure was located and the City Clerk, at the time of certifying other city
taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs to the County Clerk and
who shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county against such lot or
parcel of land and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer and paid to
the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may pursue
collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner provided by
K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, but only until the full cost and
applicable interest has been paid in full.
   (e)   If there is no salvage material, or if the monies received from the
sale of salvage or from the proceeds of any insurance policy in which the city
has created a lien pursuant to K.S.A. 40-3901 et seq., and amendments thereto,
are insufficient to pay the costs of the work and the costs of providing
notice, such costs or any portion thereof in excess of that received from the
sale of salvage or any insurance proceeds may be financed, until the costs are
paid, out of the General Fund or by the issuance of no-fund warrants.
(K.S.A. 12-1755)
§ 4-612 IMMEDIATE HAZARD.
   When, in the opinion of the governing body, any structure is in such
condition as to constitute an immediate hazard requiring immediate action to
protect the public, the governing body may direct the enforcing officer to
erect barricades or cause the property to be vacated, taken down, repaired,
shored or otherwise made safe without delay. Such action may be taken without
prior notice to or hearing of the owners, agents, lienholders and occupants.
The cost of any action under this section shall be assessed against the
property as provided in §
4-611.
(K.S.A. 12-1756)
§ 4-613 APPEALS FROM ORDER.
   Any person affected by an order issued by the governing body under this
article may, within 30 days following service of the order, petition the
District Court of the county in which the structure is located for an
injunction restraining the enforcing officer from carrying out the provisions
of the order pending final disposition of the case.
§ 4-614 SCOPE OF ARTICLE.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers
of the courts or of any department of the city to enforce any provisions of its
charter or its ordinances or regulations, nor to prevent or punish violations
thereof; and the powers conferred by this article shall be in addition to and
supplemental to the powers conferred by the Constitution, any other law or
ordinance. Nothing in this article shall be construed to impair or limit in any
way the power of the city to define and declare nuisances and to cause their
removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise or to exercise those
powers granted specifically by K.S.A. 12-1750 to 1756.
§ 4-615 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE INCORPORATED.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of regulating
minimum requirements for one and two family dwellings within the corporate
limits of the city that certain code known as the “International Residential
Code,” Edition of 2018. No fewer than two copies of said International
Residential Code shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as Incorporated by
the Code of the City of Linwood, Kansas,” and to which shall be attached a copy
of Ord. 730-2022, and filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and
available to the public at all reasonable hours.
(Ord. 730-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
ARTICLE 7: INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE
Section
   
4-701   International Mechanical Code incorporated
§ 4-701 INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE INCORPORATED.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of adopting a
complete set of mechanical related regulations within the corporate limits of
the city, that certain code known as the “International Mechanical Code”,
Edition of 2018. No fewer than two copies of said International Mechanical Code
shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as Incorporated by the Code of the
City of Linwood, Kansas”, and to which shall be attached a copy of Ord. 728-
2022, and filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to
the public at all reasonable hours.
(Ord. 728-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
ARTICLE 8: UNIFORM HOUSING CODE
Section
   
4-801   Regulations incorporated
§ 4-801 REGULATIONS INCORPORATED.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference within the corporate limits of the
city “The Uniform Housing Code, 1997 Edition”, as published by the
International Conference of Building Officials, such incorporation being
authorized by K.S.A. 12-3009 through 12-3012. No less than three copies of said
“Uniform Housing Code, 1997 Edition”, shall be marked “Official Copy as
Incorporated by Ord. 632 of the City of Linwood”, and be filed with the City
Clerk to be open for inspection and to be available to the public at all
reasonable hours.
(Ord. 632, passed 7-21-1998)
CHAPTER V: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL REGULATIONS AND LICENSES
      
2.   RESERVED
      
3.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL REGULATIONS AND LICENSES
Section
   
5-101   License required
   
5-102   License tax
   
5-103   Exemptions
   
5-104   Rules and regulations of businesses
   
5-105   License period; duration
   
5-106   License fees
   
5-107   Application for license
   
5-108   Payment of license
   
5-109   Not assignable or transferable
   
5-110   More than one business
   
5-111   Display of license
   
5-112   Expiration of licenses
   
5-113   Violation of ordinances
   
5-114   Licenses signed by City Clerk
§ 5-101 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   No person, firm, company, association or corporation, either as
principal, officer, agent, member, servant or employee, shall conduct, pursue,
carry on, or operate in the city, any business, trade, occupation or profession
or render or furnish any service hereinafter specifies, (shall not include
small businesses of minor children) without first making application to the
City Clerk for a license therefore, and paying the licenses tax hereinafter
prescribed at the time said license is issued.
   (b)   Any person, firm or corporation which shall conduct, pursue, carry on
or operate within the limits of the city, any business, trade, occupation or
profession or rendering or furnishing any service, for which a license or the
payment of a license tax is required by this chapter, or shall assist directly
or indirectly in so doing in any manner to any extent, either as owner or
proprietor, or as an officer of any corporation, or as manager, superintendent,
agent, servant, or employee of any person, firm or corporation after a license
tax should have been paid or a license obtained to conduct, pursue, carry on or
operate such business, trade, occupation or profession or rendering or
furnishing any service, shall be deemed to do so unlawfully, and for such
violation of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 671, passed 4-21-2006)
§ 5-102 LICENSE TAX.
   (a)   The license tax hereby levied shall be in the amount of $25 for all
businesses, trades, professions and occupations for rendering or furnishing any
services conducted, pursued, carried on or operated within the limits of the
city, from January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2006, and thereafter for each annual
period unless a shorter time is specifically stated. The tax levied can be
increased upon written notice to the owner/agent.
   (b)   All licenses shall be due and payable immediately upon the
commencement of business, trade, occupation or profession or rendering or
furnishing any service for which the same are issued, commencing with the
calendar year 2006.
   (c)   In any case where a tax is specifically imposed upon a certain trade,
occupation, business or profession by chapter and which trade, occupation,
business or profession would be liable under some general provisions of the
ordinances of this city, if the specific provisions herein were absent, then,
and that case, the tax shall be that specifically imposed.
(Ord. 671, passed 4-21-2006)
§ 5-103 EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   Farmer. No producer or grower, or his or her agents or employees,
selling farm or garden products, or fruits grown within this state, in this
city shall be required to pay any license or occupation tax imposed by this
chapter and they are hereby exempt from the payment of any such license tax or
securing of any license.
   (b)   Special events. City-sponsored, or not-for-profit organizations
sponsored special events consisting of five consecutive days or less are hereby
exempt from the payment of any such license tax or the securing of any license.
(Ord. 671, passed 4-21-2006)
§ 5-104 RULES AND REGULATIONS OF BUSINESSES.
   This chapter shall not be construed to amend, modify or repeal any of the
rules and regulations of the businesses, trades, occupations or professions or
rendering or furnishing any services provided for in any other ordinance of
this city.
(Ord. 671, passed 4-21-2006)
§ 5-105 LICENSE PERIOD; DURATION.
   All licenses shall be issued for a term of 12 months from January 1 of each
year, except those issued for shorter terms by the terms and conditions of the
code of ordinances of this city.
(Ord. 671, passed 4-21-2006)
§ 5-106 LICENSE FEES.
   (a)   Unless otherwise provided, the annual license fee for each occupation,
business or profession shall be as set from time to time by the City Council.
   (b)   Every person, firm or corporation making application for or receiving
an annual license after January 31 of each year for a business not previously
carried on or licensed in this city shall pay a prorated amount of the license
fee. Such amount to be prorated on a quarterly basis including the quarter
wherein application is made. No license fees other than the annual fees shall
be prorated.
   (c)   An additional $50 penalty shall be charged to businesses doing
business within the city limits for failure to secure or renew their
occupational license by February 1 for each annual year.
(Ord. 671, passed 4-21-2006; Ord. 671-A-2014, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 5-107 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Any person desiring a license required by the provisions of this chapter
shall make application therefore to the City Clerk upon forms provided by the
city for such purpose. In the event such applicant had not been in business
within the city within six months preceding such application, he or her shall
file an affidavit stating when and at what location such person began business.
(Ord. 671, passed 4-21-2006)
§ 5-108 PAYMENT OF LICENSE.
   All licenses required by this chapter shall be issued by the City Clerk upon
payment of the proper tax levied therefore. Where other provisions of the code
of ordinances of this city require the posting of bonds, carrying of insurance
policies or other similar measures for the protection of the city or residents
thereof, no license shall be issued until satisfactory proof has been presented
to the City Clerk (or proper city officer designated in such provision) showing
that such requirements have been met and complied with in full.
(Ord. 671, passed 4-21-2006)
§ 5-109 NOT ASSIGNABLE OR TRANSFERABLE.
   No license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be transferable
or assignable.
(Ord. 671, passed 4-21-2006)
§ 5-110 MORE THAN ONE BUSINESS.
   Any person who shall engage in or carry on more than one kind of business at
the same place at the same time, shall be required to but on license tax for
all businesses in which he or she is engaged; provided, that the license tax
paid shall be for the business or occupation upon which the highest tax is
levied.
(Ord. 671, passed 4-21-2006)
§ 5-111 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   All persons doing business in permanent location shall have their license
conspicuously displayed in their place of business, and all persons to who
license are issued not having a permanent place are hereby required to carry
their licenses with them, and any licensee shall present the license for
inspection when required to do so by any citizen or officer of the city.
(Ord. 671, passed 4-21-2006)
§ 5-112 EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided, all licenses issued under this
chapter shall expire on the last day of December next following the date of
issuance thereof.
(Ord. 671, passed 4-21-2006)
§ 5-113 VIOLATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (a)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as to permit any licensee
licensed under the provisions of this chapter to violate any law of the United
States, the state, or any ordinances of the city.
   (b)   Should any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
chapter be declared to be unconstitutional or invalid or unreasonable for any
reason, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 671, passed 4-21-2006)
§ 5-114 LICENSES SIGNED BY CITY CLERK.
   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be signed by the City Clerk and
the Clerk shall affix the corporate seal of the city thereto.
(Ord. 671, passed 4-21-2006)
ARTICLE 2: RESERVED
ARTICLE 3: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
5-301   Regulations incorporated
§ 5-301 REGULATIONS INCORPORATED.
   The Sexually Oriented Entertainment Businesses Ordinance of the City of
Linwood, Kansas is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set forth at
length herein.
(Ord. 621, passed 4-7-1994)
CHAPTER VI: ELECTIONS
   Article
      
1.   CITY ELECTIONS
ARTICLE 1: CITY ELECTIONS
Section
   
6-101   Conduct of election
   
6-102   Hours of voting
   
6-103   Election of Mayor and Council members
§ 6-101 CONDUCT OF ELECTION.
   The election of city officials shall be conducted in all respects as
provided by the laws of the state governing the holding of city elections.
(K.S.A. 25-2101 et seq.)
§ 6-102 HOURS OF VOTING.
   At all city elections the polls shall be open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 7:00
p.m., unless different hours are set and publicly announced by the County
Election Officer.
(K.S.A. 25-2111, 26-206)
§ 6-103 ELECTION OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (a)   The city, by the power vested in it by Article 12, § 5 of the Kansas
Constitution, hereby elects to and does exempt itself from and make
inapplicable to it K.S.A. 15-201, which applies to this city, but is part of an
enactment which does not apply uniformly to all cities.
   (b)   The governing body shall consist of a Mayor and five Council members
to be elected to terms as set forth herein. The Mayor and Council members shall
be residents and qualified electors of the city.
   (c)   Those governing body positions with terms expiring in April 2017 shall
expire on the second Monday in January of 2018, when the city officials elected
in the November 2017 general election take office. Those governing body
positions with terms expiring in April 2019 shall expire on the second Monday
in January of 2020, when the city officials elected in the November 2019
general election take office.
   (d)   In accordance with K.S.A. 25-205, and amendments thereto, any person
may become a candidate for city office elected by having filed on their behalf,
a declaration of candidacy, accompanied by any fee required by law.
   (e)   All elections for the city shall be nonpartisan.
(Charter Ord. 1-2017, passed 2-21-2017)
CHAPTER VII: FIRE
   Article
      
1.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
2.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
3.   FIREWORKS
ARTICLE 1: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
7-101   Fire Department services
   
7-102   Fire equipment; emergency right-of-way and use
   
7-103   Obstruction of fire hydrant
   
7-104   False alarm
§ 7-101 FIRE DEPARTMENT SERVICES.
   The Township of Sherman provides fire protection to the city. Sherman
Township has the right to use the city fire station building owned by the city.
The city shall pay all utilities and insurance on the building. Maintenance
expenses shall be shared equally by the city and Sherman Township. Sherman
Township agrees to keep the facility as clean as possible and to keep the
facility secured when not in use. The city retains the right to use the
facility for purposes that do not interfere with the use by Sherman Township.
The city does not pay cash payments to Sherman Township for fire protection to
the city.
(Ord. passed 12-7-1993; Ord. passed 12-7-1999)
§ 7-102 FIRE EQUIPMENT; EMERGENCY RIGHT-OF-WAY AND USE.
   (a)   All fire apparatus and equipment is hereby given and granted the
exclusive right-of-way over and through all streets, avenues, alleys and public
thoroughfares in the city while en route to fires or in response to any alarm,
and it shall be unlawful for any person or persons to in any manner obstruct or
hinder the apparatus or equipment.
   (b)   All emergency vehicles of the Fire Department, while proceeding on
official business, shall be operated in strict accordance with the requirements
of the state statutes regarding the operation of emergency vehicles, and each
departmental member assigned to the operation of emergency vehicles shall
familiarize himself or herself with the requirements of the law and govern
himself or herself accordingly. Any operator violating the provisions of the
state law shall be liable for disciplinary action.
§ 7-103 OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE HYDRANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed upon or
about any fire hydrant any rubbish, building material, fence or other
obstruction of any character, or in any manner obstruct, hinder or delay the
Fire Department in the performance of its duties in case of fire. Nor shall any
person fasten to any fire hydrant any guy rope or brace, nor stand any vehicle
within 15 feet of any such hydrant.
§ 7-104 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make or sound or cause to
be made or sounded, or by any other means, any false alarm.
ARTICLE 2: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
7-201   Fire Prevention Code incorporated
   
7-202   Same; enforcement
   
7-203   Same; amendments
   
7-204   Open burning
   
7-205   Accumulation of rubbish and trash
   
7-206   Stacking of hay or straw
   
7-207   Keeping of packing materials
   
7-208   Storage of ashes
   
7-209   Filling gasoline tanks of motor vehicles
   
7-210   Fire hazards generally
   
7-211   Same; inspections to discover
   
7-212   Abatement of fire hazards; issuing order
   
7-213   Same; service of order; records
§ 7-201 FIRE PREVENTION CODE INCORPORATED.
   There in hereby incorporated by reference within the corporate limits of the
city, “The Uniform Fire Code, 1997 Edition”, as published by the International
Conference of Building Officials, such incorporation being authorized by K.S.A.
12-3009 through 12-3012. No less than three copies of said “Uniform Fire Code,
1997 Edition” shall be marked “Official Copy, as Incorporated by Ord. 633 of
the City of Linwood”, and shall be filed with the City Clerk to open for
inspection and to be available to the public at all reasonable hours.
(Ord. 633, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 7-202 SAME; ENFORCEMENT.
   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Fire Department.
§ 7-203 SAME; AMENDMENTS.
   (a)   Wherever the word MUNICIPALITY is used in the code hereby adopted, it
shall be held to mean the City of Linwood.
   (b)   All sections of the Uniform Fire Code relating to fireworks are hereby
deleted in their entirety.
§ 7-204 OPEN BURNING.
   [Reserved]
§ 7-205 ACCUMULATION OF RUBBISH AND TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow to accumulate or to keep in any
part of any building or outside of and adjacent to any building or in any
alley, sidewalk, street or premises within 30 feet of any building any rubbish,
trash, waste paper, excelsior, empty boxes, barrels or other combustibles that
shall constitute a fire hazard.
§ 7-206 STACKING OF HAY OR STRAW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, stack or store any hay or
straw within 500 feet of any building located inside the fire limits of the
city.
§ 7-207 KEEPING OF PACKING MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful to keep excelsior or other packing material in any
other than metal or wood metal lined boxes or bins having self-closing or
automatic covers. All refuse and trash from rooms where packing or unpacking is
done shall be removed daily.
§ 7-208 STORAGE OF ASHES.
   It shall be unlawful to store ashes inside of any non-fire-proof building
unless they are stored in a noncombustible container or receptacle, and a
clearance of at least five feet shall be maintained between such container or
receptacle and any combustible materials not placed therein. Ashes shall not be
stored outside of any building in wooden, plastic or paper product receptacles
or dumped in contact with or in close proximity to any combustible materials.
§ 7-209 FILLING GASOLINE TANKS OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   The engines of motor vehicles shall be stopped when the gasoline tanks of
such vehicles are being filled with gasoline at service stations or other
places where gasoline is supplied to motor vehicles. The driver or person in
control of such vehicle when the gasoline tank of same is being filled who
refuses, neglects or fails to stop the engine of such vehicle shall likewise be
guilty of a violation of this code.
§ 7-210 FIRE HAZARDS GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful for any person to cause or create anywhere within the city,
or to permit on any premises under his or her control, any situation or
condition that is conducive to or likely to cause or permit the outbreak of
fire or the spreading of fire. Any situation or condition conducive to the
outbreak of or spreading of fire is declared to be a fire hazard. The violation
of or failure to comply with any law pertaining to the storage, handling or use
of inflammable oils, explosives, liquefied petroleum gases or fertilizers and
all wires and other conductors charged with electricity, is declared to be a
fire hazard. The placing of stools, chairs or any other obstruction in the
aisles, hallways, doorway or exit of any theater, public hall, auditorium,
church or other place of indoor public assemblage, or the failure to provide
any such place of public assemblage with sufficient, accessible and
unobstructed fire exits and escapes is also declared to be a fire hazard. The
obstruction of any street, avenue, alley, fire hydrant or any other condition
that might delay the Fire Department in fighting fire is declared to be
unlawful.
§ 7-211 SAME; INSPECTIONS TO DISCOVER.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to inspect or cause to be
inspected, as often as may be necessary, all buildings, particularly all
mercantile buildings, manufacturing plants, warehouses, garages, hotels,
boarding houses, rooming houses, theaters, auditoriums and all places of public
assemblage, for the purpose of discovering the violation of any fire preventive
law or any fire hazard and ascertaining and causing to be corrected any
conditions liable to cause fires and to see that all places of public
assemblage, hotels and rooming houses have sufficient and unobstructed
facilities for escape therefrom in case of fire.
§ 7-212 ABATEMENT OF FIRE HAZARDS; ISSUING ORDER.
   Whenever any officer or member of the Fire Department shall find or discover
any fire hazard or shall find in any building or upon any premises combustible
or explosive material or dangerous accumulation of rubbish or unnecessary
accumulation of paper, boxes, shavings or any other inflammable material, so
situated as to endanger property by the probability of fire, or shall find or
discover any violation of this chapter or any other law hazardous to public
safety from fires, the Fire Department shall order the fire hazard or danger
from the fire forthwith abated and remedied and such order shall be complied
with immediately by the owner or occupant of such buildings or premises. If the
hazard or condition ordered abated and remedied is a violation of, or a failure
to comply with any law, the Fire Department shall report the matter to the City
Attorney and he or she shall, if he or she deems it advisable, prosecute the
offender.
§ 7-213 SAME; SERVICE OF ORDER; RECORDS.
   Any order made under §
7-212 shall be in writing and may be served personally upon the owner or
occupant of the premises or by leaving it with any person in charge of the
premises or if the premises are unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident of
the city, then by mailing a copy to the owner’s last known post office address.
One notice to either the occupant or owner shall be sufficient. The Fire
Department shall keep a record of and copies of all such orders and notices and
shall follow up such notices at the expiration of the time for compliance
therewith and when complied with make proper entry, and if not complied with,
file complaint with the Municipal Court against the property owner and/or
occupant.
ARTICLE 3: FIREWORKS
Section
   
7-301   Definitions
   
7-302   Fireworks generally
   
7-303   Storage, sale and handling
   
7-304   Storage near flammable substances prohibited
   
7-305   Fire extinguishers required
   
7-306   Sale and discharge days permitted
   
7-307   Exposure for sale restricted
   
7-308   Storage, sale near gasoline or other stations selling flammable liquids
   
7-309   Discharge from or into or under vehicles
   
7-310   Insurance
   
7-311   Licenses
   
7-312   Penalties
§ 7-301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLASS C FIREWORKS (COMMON FIREWORKS). Fireworks designed primarily to
produce visible effects by combustion. The definition of CLASS C FIREWORKS is
based on the definition of the United States Department of Transportation of
common fireworks (C.F.R. Title 49, § 173.120). Some small devices designed to
produce and audible effect are included but only when containing two grains or
less of pyrotechnic compositions. Propelling or expelling charges consisting of
a mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and potassium nitrate (saltpeter are not
considered as designed to produce and audible effect).
   FIREWORKS. Any combustible or deflagrating composition, article, or device
suitable for the use of the public for the purpose of producing a visible or
audible effect by combustion, deflagaration, or detonation and previously
approved for transportation by the chemical laboratory of the United States
department of transportation.
(Ord. 570, passed 6-18-1986)
§ 7-302 FIREWORKS GENERALLY.
   (a)   Toy devices. Nothing in this article shall be construed as applying to
toy smoke devices defined as smoke balls, or tubes containing a pyrotechnic
mixture which upon ignition produces a visible cloud of smoke (white and black
smokes are considered colored); or to toy paper caps containing not more than
.25 of a grain of explosive composition per cap, and to the manufacture,
storage, sale or use of signals necessary for the safe operation of railroads
or other classes of public or private transportation, not applying to the
military or naval forces or the United States or of this slate, or to peace
officers, nor as prohibiting the firing of sky rockets or missiles when
produced by a science class of any school and when under supervision of the
science instructor and when the place and time of firing the sky rockets or
missiles has been approved by the Fire Department.
   (b)   Bottle rockets; sale and use prohibited; exceptions:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A):
         (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell, offer to sell, or to possess with
intent to sell or offer for sale a bottle rocket; and
         (B)   It shall be unlawful to ignite, fire, set-off or otherwise use a
bottle rocket.
      (2)   Any person violating the provisions of subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than
$100.
      (3)   The provisions of this division (b) shall not prohibit the
possession or transportation of bottle rockets by a manufacturer or wholesaler
thereof for sale outside this sate if such manufacturer or wholesaler is
currently registered with the State Fire Marshal pursuant to state statutes.
   (c)   Approval by State Fire Marshal. All fireworks offered for sale in the
city shall be of the type that has been tested and approved for sale and use
within the state by the State Fire Marshal. All new pieces of fireworks not
having been tested by the State Fire Marshal shall be submitted to the State
Fire Marshal for test and approval or rejection before offered for sale to
retailers or individuals with the state.
   (d)   Illegal fireworks. All fireworks not bearing the label I.C.D. or
D.O.T. class C common fireworks shall be illegal to be sold and possessed.
(Ord. 570, passed 6-18-1986)
§ 7-303 STORAGE, SALE AND HANDLING.
   Fireworks to be sold at wholesale shall be stored in a room set aside for
the storage of fireworks only. The entrance to this room shall be posted with a
sigh reading, “fireworks - no smoking - keep open flames away”.
(Ord. 570, passed 6-18-1986)
§ 7-304 STORAGE NEAR FLAMMABLE SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED.
   Fireworks shall not be sold or kept for sale in a place of business where
paints, oils, varnishes, turpentine or gasoline or oilier flammable substances
are kept in containers, unless in a separate and distinct section or department
of the store.
(Ord. 570, passed 6-18-1986)
§ 7-305 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS REQUIRED.
   Two approved fire extinguishers must be provided and kept in close proximity
to the stock of fireworks in all buildings where fireworks are sold. Small
stands, temporarily erected to be used as a place for storing and selling
fireworks only, shall have a fire extinguisher, or in lieu of the fire
extinguisher a barrel of water with at least two buckets, or a loaded water
hose with nozzle and within 15 feet of fireworks stand.
(Ord. 570, passed 6-18-1986)
§ 7-306 SALE AND DISCHARGE DAYS PERMITTED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall offer fireworks for sale to individuals
at retail stands or locations before July 1 and after July 4.
   (a)   Applicant may sell fireworks on July 1 and 2 from 8:00 a.m. to 10:00
p.m. and on July 3 and 4 from 8:00 a.m. to midnight.
   (b)   Fireworks may be discharged on private property between the hours of
8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. on July 3 and from 8:00 a.m. to midnight on July 4 of
each year.
   (c)   City sponsored displays shall be exempt for date restrictions in
division (b) above.
(Ord. 570, passed 6-18-1986; Ord. 570-A, passed 6-6-2000)
§ 7-307 EXPOSURE FOR SALE RESTRICTED.
   All retailers are forbidden to expose fireworks where the sun shines through
glass on the merchandise displayed, except where such fireworks are in the
original package, and all fireworks kept for sale on front counters must remain
in original packages, except where an attendant is on constant duty at all
times at counters where such fireworks are on display; provided, however, that
fireworks in open stock may be kept in show cases or counters out of reach of
the public without and attendant being on duty. Signs reading, “fireworks for
sale - no smoking allowed” shall be displayed in the section of the store set
aside for the sale of fireworks.
(Ord. 570, passed 6-18-1986)
§ 7-308 STORAGE, SALE NEAR GASOLINE OR OTHER STATIONS SELLING FLAMMABLE
LIQUIDS.
   Fireworks shall not be stored, kept, sold or discharged within 50 feet of
any gasoline pump, gasoline filling station, gasoline bulk station or any
building in which gasoline or volatile liquids are sold in quantities in excess
of one gallon, except in stores where cleaners, paints, and oils are handled in
sealed containers only.
(Ord. 570, passed 6-18-1986)
§ 7-309 DISCHARGE FROM OR INTO OR UNDER VEHICLES.
   No person shall ignite or discharge any fireworks into, under, from, or on a
car or vehicle, whether moving or standing still. Fireworks shall not be
discharges within 50 feet of any retain fireworks stand or facility where
fireworks are stored.
(Ord. 570, passed 6-18-1986)
§ 7-310 INSURANCE.
   The permittee shall furnish a bond or certificate of insurance in the amount
of $50,000 per person and $200,000 per occasion and $100,000 for property
damage by reason of the permitted display and arising from any acts of the
permittee, his agents, employees or subcontractors.
(Ord. 570, passed 6-18-1986)
§ 7-311 LICENSES.
   Every person, firm or corporation before selling or offering for sale
fireworks in the city shall make application to the City Clerk five days prior
to July 1, for a license to sell the same. The application shall be approved by
the Fire Department before the license shall be issued. The license fee for the
license shall be in the amount of $100 per year. The governing body, upon
request may waive the fee to not-for-profit firms or organizations.
(Ord. 570, passed 6-18-1986)
§ 7-312 PENALTIES.
   Penalties for violation by any person, firm or corporation violating the
terms of this article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $10 and not more than $500 for such an offense.
(Ord. 570, passed 6-18-1986)
CHAPTER VIII: HEALTH AND WELFARE
   Article
      
1.   RESERVED
      
2.   HEALTH NUISANCES
      
2A.   ENVIRONMENTAL CODE
      
3.   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
      
4.   WEEDS
      
5.   MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
      
6.   RODENT CONTROL
      
7.   INSURANCE PROCEEDS FUND
      
8.   EXCESSIVE NOISE
ARTICLE 1: RESERVED
ARTICLE 2: HEALTH NUISANCES
Section
   
8-201   Nuisances unlawful; defined
   
8-202   Public officer
   
8-203   Complaints; inquiry and inspection
   
8-204   Right of entry
   
8-205   Notice
   
8-206   Same; contents
   
8-207   Failure to comply; penalty
   
8-208   Abatement
   
8-209   Hearing
   
8-210   Costs assessed
§ 8-201 NUISANCES UNLAWFUL; DEFINED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit any nuisance
within the city as defined, without limitation, as follows:
   (a)   Filth, excrement, lumber, rocks, dirt, cans, paper, trash, metal or
any other offensive or disagreeable thing or substance thrown or left or
deposited upon any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, park, public or private
enclosure, or lot whether vacant or occupied;
   (b)   All dead animals not removed within 24 hours after death;
   (c)   Any place or structure or substance that emits or causes any
offensive, disagreeable or nauseous odors;
   (d)   All stagnant ponds or pools of water;
   (e)   All grass or weeds longer than eight inches or other unsightly
vegetation not usually cultivated or grown for domestic use or to be marketed
or for ornamental purposes;
   (f)   Abandoned iceboxes or refrigerators kept on the premises under the
control of any person, or deposited on the sanitary landfill, or any icebox or
refrigerator not in actual use unless the door, opening or lid thereof is
unhinged or unfastened and removed therefrom;
   (g)   All articles or things whatsoever caused, kept, maintained or
permitted by any person to the injury, annoyance or inconvenience of the public
or of any neighborhood;
   (h)   Any fence, structure, thing or substance placed upon or being upon any
street, sidewalk, alley or public ground so as to obstruct the same, except as
permitted by the laws of the city; and
   (i)   (1)   Any motor vehicle which is not currently registered or tagged
pursuant to K.S.A. 8-126 to 8-149 inclusive, as amended; or parked in violation
of city ordinance; or incapable of moving under its own power; or in a junked ,
wrecked or inoperable condition. Any one of the following conditions shall
raise the presumption that a vehicle is junked, wrecked or inoperable:
         (A)   Absence of current registration plates upon the vehicle;
         (B)   Placement of the vehicle or parts thereof upon jacks, blocks, or
other supports; or
         (C)   Absence of one or more parts of the vehicle necessary for the
lawful operation of the vehicle upon street or highway.
      (2)   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to any motor
vehicle which is enclosed in a garage or other building; to the parking or
storage of a vehicle inoperable for a period of 30 consecutive days or less; or
to any person conducting a business enterprise in compliance with existing
zoning regulations or who places such vehicles behind screening of sufficient
size, strength and density to screen such vehicles from the view of the public
and to prohibit ready access to stored vehicles by children. However, nothing
in this subsection shall be construed to authorize the maintenance of a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 600, passed 5-1-1990)
§ 8-202 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The Mayor, with the approval of the Council shall designate a public officer
to be charged with the administration and enforcement of this article.
(Ord. 600, passed 5-1-1990)
§ 8-203 COMPLAINTS; INQUIRY AND INSPECTION.
   (a)   The public officer shall make inquiry and inspection of premises upon
receiving a complaint or complaints in writing signed by two or more persons
stating that a nuisance exists and describing the same and where located, or is
informed that a nuisance may exist by the Fire Chief.
   (b)   The public officer may make such inquiry and inspection when he or she
observes conditions that appear to constitute a nuisance. Upon making any
inquiry and inspection, the public officer shall make a written report of
findings.
(Ord. 600, passed 5-1-1990)
§ 8-204 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be a violation of this article to deny the public officer the right
of access and entry upon private property at any reasonable time for the
purpose of making inquiry and inspection to determine if a nuisance exists.
(Ord. 600, passed 5-1-1990)
§ 8-205 NOTICE.
   Any person, corporation, partnership or association found by the public
officer to be in violation of §
8-201 shall be served a notice of such violation. The notice shall be served by
restricted mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested or be personally
served by the public officer.
(Ord. 600, passed 5-1-1990)
§ 8-206 SAME; CONTENTS.
   (a)   The notice shall state the condition(s) that is (are) in violation of
§
8-201. The notice shall also inform the person, corporation, partnership or
association that:
      (1)   He, she or they shall have ten days from the date of serving the
notice to abate the condition(s) in violation of §
8-201; or
      (2)   He, she or they have ten days from the serving of the notice to
request a hearing before the governing body or its designated representative of
the matter as provided by §
8-209.
   (b)   Failure to abate the condition(s) or to request a hearing within the
time allowed may result in prosecution as provided by §
8-207 and/or abatement of the condition(s) by the city as provided by §
8-208.
(Ord. 600, passed 5-1-1990)
§ 8-207 FAILURE TO COMPLY; PENALTY.
   Should the person, corporation, partnership or association fail to comply
with the order to abate the nuisance or request a hearing, the public officer
may file a complaint in the Municipal Court of the city against such person,
corporation, partnership or association and upon conviction of any violation of
provisions of § 8-201, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100, or be
imprisoned not to exceed 30 days or be both fined and imprisoned. Each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues after notice has been served
shall constitute an additional or separate offense.
(Ord. 600, passed 5-1-1990)
§ 8-208 ABATEMENT.
   (a)   In addition to, or as an alternative to prosecution as provided in §
8-207, the public officer may seek to remedy violations of this article in the
following manner. If a person to whom an order has been served pursuant to §
8-205 has neither alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation nor
requested a hearing before the governing body within the time periods specified
in §
8-206, the public officer may present a resolution to the governing body for
adoption authorizing the public officer or other agents of the city to abate
the conditions causing the violation at the end of ten days after passage of
the resolution. The resolution shall further provide that the costs incurred by
the city shall be charged against the lot or parcel of ground on which the
nuisance was located as provided in §
8-210.
   (b)   A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the person in violation
in one of the following ways:
      (1)   Personal service upon the person in violation;
      (2)   Service by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested; or
      (3)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the
same cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an
affidavit to that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the
City Clerk, and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the
same once each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper
and by posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition
exists.
(Ord. 600, passed 5-1-1990; Ord. passed 600A, passed 4-17-2001)
§ 8-209 HEARING.
   If a hearing is requested within the ten-day-period as provided in §
8-206, such request shall be made in writing to the governing body. Failure to
make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a waiver of the person’s
right to contest the findings of the public officer before the governing body.
The hearing shall be held by the governing body as soon as possible after the
filing of the request therefore, and the person shall be advised by the city of
the time and place of the hearing at least five days in advance thereof. At any
such hearing, the person may be represented by counsel, and the person and the
city may introduce such witnesses and evidence as is deemed necessary and
proper by the governing body. The hearing need not be conducted according to
the formal rules of evidence. Upon conclusion of the hearing, the governing
body shall record its determination of the matter by means of adopting a
resolution and serving the resolution upon the person in the manner provided in
§
8-208.
(Ord. 600, passed 5-1-1990)
§ 8-210 COSTS ASSESSED.
   If the city abates the nuisance pursuant to §
8-208, the cost of the abatement shall be charged against the lot or parcel of
ground on which the nuisance was located. The City Clerk shall, at the time of
certifying other city taxes to the County Clerk, certify the costs as provided
in this section. The County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax roll and it
shall be collected by the County Treasurer and paid to the city as other city
taxes are collected and paid.
(Ord. 600, passed 5-1-1990)
ARTICLE 2A: ENVIRONMENTAL CODE
Section
   
8-2A01   Title
   
8-2A02   Legislative finding of fact
   
8-2A03   Purpose
   
8-2A04   Rules of construction
   
8-2A05   Definitions
   
8-2A06   Public officer
   
8-2A07   Enforcement standards
   
8-2A08   Unlawful acts
   
8-2A09   Order of violation
   
8-2A10   Penalty
   
8-2A11   Abatement
   
8-2A12   Hearing
   
8-2A13   Appeals
   
8-2A14   Costs assessed
   
8-2A15   Construction
§ 8-2A01 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Environmental Code”.
§ 8-2A02 LEGISLATIVE FINDING OF FACT.
   The governing body has found that there exists within the city unsightly and
hazardous conditions due to: dilapidation, deterioration or disrepair of walls,
siding, fences or structure exteriors; accumulations increasing the hazards of
accidents or other calamities; structural defects; uncleanliness; unsightly
stored or parked material, equipment, supplies, machinery, vehicles or parts
thereof. Such conditions are inimical to the general welfare of the community
in that they have a blighting influence on the adjoining properties, the
neighborhood and the city, or are injurious to the health and safety of the
residents of the city. The governing body desires to promote the public health,
safety and welfare by the repair, removal, abatement and regulation of such
conditions in the manner hereafter provided.
§ 8-2A03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to protect, preserve, upgrade and regulate
the environmental quality of industrial, commercial and residential
neighborhoods in this city, by outlawing conditions which are injurious to the
health, safety, welfare or aesthetic characteristics of the neighborhoods and
to provide for the administration and enforcement thereof.
§ 8-2A04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following rules of construction shall
apply.
   (a)   Any part thereof. Whenever the words premises, structure, building or
yard are used, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the
words “or any part thereof”.
   (b)   Gender. Words of gender shall be construed to mean neuter, feminine or
masculine, as may be applicable.
   (c)   Number. Words of number shall be construed to mean singular or plural,
as may be applicable.
   (d)   Tense. Words of tense shall be construed to mean present or future, as
may be applicable.
   (e)   Shall. The word shall is mandatory and not permissive.
§ 8-2A05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that is not currently registered
or tagged pursuant to K.S.A. 8-126 to 8-149 inclusive, as amended; or parked in
violation of the ordinance; or incapable of moving under its own power; or in a
junked or wrecked condition.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A secondary structure detached from the principal
structure but on the same premises, including, but not limited to, garages,
sheds, barns or outbuildings.
   COMMERCIAL or INDUSTRIAL. Used or intended to be used primarily for other
than residential purposes.
   DILAPIDATION, DETERIORATION or DISREPAIR. Any condition characterized by,
but not limited to, holes, breaks, rot, decay, crumbling, cracking, peeling or
flaking paint, rusting or other evidence of physical damage, neglect, lack of
maintenance, excessive use or weathering.
   EXTERIOR. Those parts of a structure that are exposed to the weather or
subject to contact with the elements; including, but not limited to, sidings,
facings, veneers, masonry, roofs, foundations, porches, screens, shutters,
windows, doors or signs.
   GARBAGE. Without limitation, any accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable
waste matter that results from the handling, preparation, cooking, serving,
delivering, storage or use of foodstuffs.
   PERSON. Any individual, individuals, corporation, partnership,
unincorporated association, other business organization, committee, board,
trustee, receiver, agent or other representative who has charge, care, control
or responsibility for maintenance of any premises, regardless of status as
owner, renter, tenant or lessee, whether or not in possession.
   PREMISES. Any lot, plot or parcel of land including the structures thereon.
PREMISES shall also mean any lot, plot or parcel of land without any structures
thereon.
   REFUSE. Garbage and trash.
   RESIDENTIAL. Used or intended to be used primarily for human habitation.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or is attached to something having a location on the ground, including
any appurtenances belonging thereto.
   TRASH. Combustible waste consisting of, but not limited to, papers, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, furniture, bedding, rags, leaves, yard
trimmings or tree branches and non-combustible waste consisting of, but not
limited to, metal, tin, cans, glass, crockery, plastics, mineral matter, ashes,
clinkers, or street rubbish and sweepings.
   WEATHERED. Deterioration caused by exposure to the elements.
   YARD. The area of the premises not occupied by any structure.
§ 8-2A06 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The person designated by the city shall designate a public officer to be
charged with the administration and enforcement of this article.
§ 8-2A07 ENFORCEMENT STANDARDS.
   No person shall be found in violation of this article unless the public
officer, after a reasonable inquiry and inspection of the premises, believes
that conditions exist of a quality and appearance not commensurate with the
character of the neighborhood. Such belief must be supported by evidence of a
level of maintenance significantly below that of the rest of the neighborhood.
Such evidence shall include conditions declared unlawful under §
8-2A08, but shall not include conditions that are not readily visible from any
public place or from any surrounding private property.
§ 8-2A08 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow to exist on any
residential, commercial or industrial premises, conditions that are injurious
to the health, safety or general welfare of the residents of the community or
conditions that are detrimental to adjoining property, the neighborhood or the
city.
   (b)   For the purpose of fair and efficient enforcement and administration,
such unlawful conditions shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   Exterior conditions (yard) shall include, but not be limited to,
the scattering over or the parking, leaving, depositing or accumulation on the
yard of any of the following:
         (A)   Lumber, wire, metal, tires, concrete, masonry products, plastic
products, supplies, equipment, machinery, auto parts, junk or refuse;
         (B)   Abandoned motor vehicles;
         (C)   Furniture, stoves, refrigerators, televisions, sinks, bicycles,
lawn mowers or other such items of personal property; or
         (D)   Nauseous substances, carcasses of dead animals or places where
animals are kept in an offensive manner.
      (2)   Exterior conditions (structure) shall include, but not be limited
to, deteriorated, dilapidated or unsightly:
         (A)   Exteriors of any structure;
         (B)   Exteriors of any accessory structure; or
         (C)   Fences, walls or retaining walls.
§ 8-2A09 ORDER OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall serve upon the owner, any agent of the owner
of the property or any other person, corporation, partnership or association
found by the public officer to be in violation of §
8-2A08 an order stating the violation. The order shall be served on the owner
or agent of such property by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service. If the property is unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident,
then by mailing the order by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
last known address of the owner.
   (b)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24- month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first class mail. The order shall
state:
      (1)   The condition that has caused the violation of this article; and
      (2)   That the person in violation shall have:
         (A)   Ten days from the receipt of the order to alleviate the exterior
conditions (yard) violation; and/or
         (B)   Forty-five days from the receipt of the order to alleviate the
exterior conditions (structure) violation; or
         (C)   Ten days from the receipt of the order, plus any additional time
granted under subsection (c) of this section, to request, as provided in §
8-2A12 a hearing before the governing body or its designated representative on
the matter.
   (c)   Provided, however, that the governing body (or its designee named
herein) shall grant one or more extensions to the time periods stated in
subsections (b)(2)(A) and (b)(2)(B) above, if the owner or agent of the
property demonstrates that due diligence is being exercised in the abatement of
the conditions that have caused the violation of this article; and
   (d)   That failure to alleviate the condition or to request a hearing may
result in prosecution under §
8-2A10 and/or abatement of the condition by the city according to §
8-2A11 with the costs assessed against the property under §
8-2A14.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
§ 8-2A10 PENALTY.
   The public officer may file a complaint in the Municipal Court against any
person found to be in violation of §
8-2A08, provided however, that such person shall first have been sent an order
of violation as provided in §
8-2A09 and that the person has neither alleviated the conditions causing the
alleged violation nor requested a hearing before the governing body within the
time periods specified in §
8-2A09. Upon such complaint in the Municipal Court, any person found to be in
violation of §
8-2A08 shall upon conviction be punished by a fine of not less than $100, or by
imprisonment, for not more than 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment,
for each offense. For the purposes of this article, a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which such violation is permitted to
exist.
§ 8-2A11 ABATEMENT.
   (a)   In addition to, or as an alternative to prosecution as provided in §
8-2A10, the public officer may seek to remedy violations of this article in the
following manner. If a person to whom an order has been served pursuant to §
8-2A09 has neither alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation nor
requested a hearing before the governing body within the time periods specified
in §
8-2A09, the public officer may present a resolution to the governing body for
adoption authorizing the public officer or other agents of the city to abate
the conditions causing the violation at the end of ten days after passage of
the resolution. The resolution shall further provide that the costs incurred by
the city shall be charged against the lot or parcel of ground on which the
nuisance was located as provided in §
8-2A14.
   (b)   A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the person in violation
in one of the following ways:
      (1)   Personal service upon the person in violation;
      (2)   Certified mail, return receipt requested; or
      (3)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the
same cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an
affidavit to that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the
City Clerk, and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the
same once each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper
and by posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition
exists.
   (c)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first-class mail.
§ 8-2A12 HEARING.
   If a hearing is requested within the ten-day period as provided in §
8-2A09, such request shall be made in writing to the governing body. Failure to
make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a waiver of the person’s
right to contest the findings of the public officer. The hearing shall be held
by the governing body or its designated representative as soon as possible
after the filing of the request therefor, and the person shall be advised by
the city of the time and place of the hearing at least five days in advance
thereof. At any such hearing, the person may be represented by counsel, and the
person and the city may introduce such witnesses and evidence as is deemed
necessary and proper by the governing body or its designated representative.
The hearing need not be conducted according to the formal rules of evidence.
Upon conclusion of the hearing, the findings of the governing body or its
designated representative shall be prepared in resolution form, adopted by the
governing body, and the resolution shall be served upon the person in the
manner provided in §
8-2A11.
§ 8-2A13 APPEALS.
   Any person affected by any determination of the governing body under §§
8-2A11 and
8-2A12 may appeal such determination in the manner provided by K.S.A. 60-2101.
§ 8-2A14 COSTS ASSESSED.
   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to §
8-2A11, the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, of the total cost of the abatement or
removal incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the payment is
due within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also may recover
the cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section.
The notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or abatement is not
paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or removal shall be
collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or
shall be assessed as special assessments and charged against the lot or parcel
of land on which the nuisance was located and the City Clerk, at the time of
certifying other city taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs and
the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county against
such lot or parcel of land and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer
and paid to the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may
pursue collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner
provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, but only until the full
cost and applicable interest has been paid in full.
§ 8-2A15 CONSTRUCTION.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers
of the courts or of any department of the city to enforce any provisions of its
laws nor to prevent or punish violations thereof. The powers conferred by this
article shall be in addition to and supplemental to the powers conferred by the
State Constitution, by any other law or by ordinance.
ARTICLE 3: JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
Section
   
8-301   Findings of governing body
   
8-302   Definitions
   
8-303   Nuisances unlawful; defined; exceptions
   
8-304   Public officer
   
8-305   Complaints; inquiry and inspection
   
8-306   Right of entry
   
8-307   Order of violation
   
8-308   Same; contents
   
8-309   Failure to comply; penalty
   
8-310   Abatement
   
8-311   Disposition of vehicle; recovery of vehicle
   
8-312   Hearing
   
8-313   Costs assessed
§ 8-301 FINDINGS OF GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body finds that junked, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative or
abandoned vehicles affect the health, safety and general welfare of citizens of
the city because they:
   (a)   Serve as a breeding ground for flies, mosquitoes, rats and other
insects and rodents;
   (b)   Are a danger to persons, particularly children, because of broken
glass, sharp metal protrusions, insecure mounting on blocks, jacks or other
supports;
   (c)   Are a ready source of fire and explosion;
   (d)   Encourage pilfering and theft;
   (e)   Constitute a blighting influence upon the area in which they are
located; and
   (f)   Constitute a fire hazard because they frequently block access for fire
equipment to adjacent buildings and structures.
§ 8-302 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE. A condition of being junked, wrecked, wholly or partially
dismantled, discarded, abandoned or unable to perform the function or purpose
for which it was originally constructed.
   VEHICLE. Without limitation, any automobile, truck, tractor or motorcycle
which as originally built contained an engine, regardless of whether it
contains an engine at any other time.
§ 8-303 NUISANCES UNLAWFUL; DEFINED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit any motor vehicle
nuisance within the city.
   (a)   (1)   A MOTOR VEHICLE NUISANCE is any motor vehicle that is not
currently registered or tagged pursuant to K.S.A. 8-126 to 8-149 inclusive, as
amended; or parked in violation of city ordinance; or incapable of moving under
its own power; or in a junked, wrecked or inoperable condition.
      (2)   Any one of the following conditions shall raise the presumption
that a vehicle is junked, wrecked or inoperable:
         (A)   Absence of a current registration plate upon the vehicle;
         (B)   Placement of the vehicle or parts thereof upon jacks, blocks or
other supports; or
         (C)   Absence of one or more parts of the vehicle necessary for the
lawful operation of the vehicle upon street or highway.
   (b)   The provisions of this article shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any motor vehicle that is enclosed in a garage or other building;
      (2)   To the parking or storage of a vehicle inoperable for a period of
30 consecutive days or less; or
      (3)   To any person conducting a business enterprise in compliance with
existing zoning regulations or who places such vehicles behind screening of
sufficient size, strength and density to screen such vehicles from the view of
the public and to prohibit ready access to stored vehicles by children,
however, nothing in this division (b)(3) shall be construed to authorize the
maintenance of a public nuisance.
§ 8-304 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The person designated by the city shall designate a public officer to be
charged with the administration and enforcement of this article.
§ 8-305 COMPLAINTS; INQUIRY AND INSPECTION.
   The public officer shall make inquiry and inspection of premises upon
receiving a complaint or complaints in writing signed by two or more persons
stating that a nuisance exists and describing the same and where located or is
informed that a nuisance may exist by the Chief of Police or the Fire Chief.
The public officer may make such inquiry and inspection when he or she observes
conditions that appear to constitute a nuisance. Upon making any inquiry and
inspection, the public officer shall make a written report of findings.
§ 8-306 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The public officer has the right of access and entry upon private property
at any reasonable time for the purpose of making inquiry and inspection to
determine if a nuisance exists.
§ 8-307 ORDER OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall serve upon the owner, any agent of the owner
of the property, or any other person, corporation, partnership or association
found by the public officer to be in violation of §
8-303 an order stating the violation. The order shall be served on the owner or
agent of such property by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service. If the property is unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident,
then by mailing the order by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
last known address of the owner.
   (b)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first-class mail.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
§ 8-308 SAME; CONTENTS.
   (a)   The order shall state the condition(s) which is (are) in violation of
§
8-303.
   (b)   The order shall also inform the person, corporation, partnership or
association that:
      (1)   He, she or they shall have ten days from receipt of the order to
abate the condition(s) in violation of §
8-303; or
      (2)   He, she or they have ten days from receipt of the order to request
a hearing before the governing body or its designated representative of the
matter as provided by §
8-312;
   (c)   Failure to abate the condition(s) or to request a hearing within the
time allowed may result in prosecution as provided by §
8-309 and/or abatement of the condition(s) by the city as provided by §
8-310.
§ 8-309 FAILURE TO COMPLY; PENALTY.
   Should the person fail to comply with the order to abate the nuisance or
request a hearing, the public officer may file a complaint in the Municipal
Court of the city against such person and upon conviction of any violation of
provisions of § 8-303, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100, or be
imprisoned not to exceed 30 days, or be both fined and imprisoned. Each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues after notice has been served
shall constitute an additional or separate offense.
§ 8-310 ABATEMENT.
   (a)   In addition to, or as an alternative to prosecution as provided in §
8-309, the public officer may seek to remedy violations of this article in the
following manner. If a person to whom an order has been sent pursuant to §
8-307 has neither alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation or
requested a hearing before the governing body within the time period specified
in §
8-308, the public officer may present a resolution to the governing body for
adoption authorizing the public officer or other agents of the city to abate
the conditions causing the violation at the end of ten days after passage of
the resolution.
   (b)   (1)   The resolution shall further provide that the costs incurred by
the city shall be charged against the lot or parcel of ground on which the
nuisance was located as provided in §
8-313.
      (2)   A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the person in
violation in one of the following ways:
         (A)   Personal service upon the person in violation;
         (B)   Service by certified mail, return receipt requested; or
         (C)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the
same cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an
affidavit to that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the
City Clerk, and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the
same once each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper
and by posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition
exists.
      (3)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed
to accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or
order sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first-class mail.
§ 8-311 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE; RECOVERY OF VEHICLE.
   (a)   Disposition of any motor vehicle removed and abated from private
property pursuant to this article shall be as provided by K.S.A. 8-1102, as
amended.
   (b)   Any person attempting to recover a motor vehicle impounded as provided
in this article, shall show proof of valid registration and ownership of the
motor vehicle before the motor vehicle shall be released. In addition, the
person desiring the release of the motor vehicle shall pay all reasonable costs
associated with the impoundment of the motor vehicle, including transportation
and storage fees, prior to the release of the motor vehicle.
§ 8-312 HEARING.
   If a hearing is requested within the ten-day period as provided in §
8-308, such request shall be made in writing to the governing body. Failure to
make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a waiver of the person’s
right to contest the findings of the public officer. The hearing shall be held
by the governing body or its designated representative as soon as possible
after the filing of the request therefor, and the person shall be advised by
the city of the time and place of the hearing at least five days in advance
thereof. At any such hearing, the person may be represented by counsel, and the
person and the city may introduce such witnesses and evidence as is deemed
necessary and proper by the governing body or its designated representative.
The hearing need not be conducted according to the formal rules of evidence.
Upon conclusion of the hearing, the findings of the governing body or its
designated representative shall be prepared in resolution form, adopted by the
governing body, and the resolution shall be served upon the person in the
matter provided in §
8-310.
§ 8-313 COSTS ASSESSED.
   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to §
8-310, the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent by certified
mail, return receipt requested, of the total cost of the abatement or removal
incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the payment is due
within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also may recover the
cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section. The
notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or abatement is not
paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or removal shall be
collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or
shall be assessed as special assessments and charged against the lot or parcel
of land on which the nuisance was located and the City Clerk, at the time of
certifying other city taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs and
the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county against
such lot or parcel of land and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer
and paid to the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may
pursue collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner
provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, but only until the full
cost and applicable interest has been paid in full.
ARTICLE 4: WEEDS
Section
   
8-401   Weeds to be removed
   
8-402   Definitions
   
8-403   Public officer; notice to remove
   
8-404   Abatement; assessment of costs
   
8-405   Right of entry
   
8-406   Unlawful interference
   
8-407   Noxious weeds
§ 8-401 WEEDS TO BE REMOVED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent, lessee, tenant or other person
occupying or having charge or control of any premises to permit weeds to remain
upon said premises or any area between the property lines of said premises and
the centerline of any adjacent street or alley, including, but not specifically
limited to, sidewalks, streets, alleys, easements, rights-of-way and all other
areas, public or private. All weeds as hereinafter defined are hereby declared
a nuisance and are subject to abatement as hereinafter provided.
§ 8-402 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS. As used herein, means any of the following:
      (1)   Brush and woody vines shall be classified as weeds;
      (2)   Weeds and grasses that may attain such large growth as to become,
when dry, a fire menace to adjacent improved property;
      (3)   Weeds that bear or may bear seeds of a downy or wingy nature;
      (4)   Weeds that are located in an area that harbors rats, insects,
animals, reptiles or any other creature that either may or does constitute a
menace to health, public safety or welfare; and
      (5)   Weeds and grasses on or about residential property that, because of
its height, has a blighting influence on the neighborhood. Any such weeds and
indigenous grasses shall be presumed to be blighting if they exceed 12 inches
in height.
§ 8-403 PUBLIC OFFICER; NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (a)   The city shall designate a public officer to be charged with the
administration and enforcement of this article. The public officer or
authorized assistant shall give written notice to the owner, occupant or agent
of such property by certified mail, return receipt requested or by personal
service to cut or destroy weeds; provided, however, that if the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, such notice shall be sent by
certified, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the owner.
Such notice shall be given only once per calendar year.
   (b)   The notice to be given hereunder shall state:
      (1)   That the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property is in
violation of the city weed control law;
      (2)   That the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property is
ordered to cut or destroy the weeds within ten days of the receipt of the
notice;
      (3)   That the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property may
request a hearing before the governing body or its designated representative
within five days of the receipt of the notice or, if the owner is unknown or a
nonresident, and there is no resident agent, ten days after notice has been
published by the City Clerk in the official city newspaper;
      (4)   That if the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property
does not cut or destroy the weeds or fails to request a hearing within the
allowed time the city or its authorized agent will cut or destroy the weeds and
assess the cost of the cutting or destroying the weeds, including a reasonable
administrative fee, against the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the
property;
      (5)   That the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property will
be given an opportunity to pay the assessment, and if it is not paid within 30
days of such notice, it will be added to the property tax as a special
assessment;
      (6)   That no further notice will be given during the current calendar
year prior to the removal of weeds from the property; and
      (7)   That the public officer should be contacted if there are questions
regarding the order.
   (c)   If there is a change in the record owner of title to property
subsequent to the giving of notice pursuant to this section, the city may not
recover any costs or levy an assessment for the costs incurred by the cutting
or destruction of weeds on such property unless the new record owner of title
to such property is provided notice as required by this article.
(K.S.A. 12-1617f)
§ 8-404 ABATEMENT; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (a)   If the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property has neither
alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation nor requested a hearing
within the time periods specified in §
8-403, the public officer or an authorized assistant shall abate or remove the
conditions causing the violation. If the city has to abate/mow, there will be a
fee of $100 assessed.
   (b)   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to this section,
the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent by certified mail,
return receipt requested, of the total cost of the abatement or removal
incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the payment is due
within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also may recover the
cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section.
   (c)   The notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or
abatement is not paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or
removal shall be collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and
amendments thereto, or shall be assessed as special assessments and charged
against the lot or parcel of land on which the nuisance was located and the
City Clerk, at the time of certifying other city taxes, shall certify the
unpaid portion of the costs and the County Clerk shall extend the same on the
tax rolls of the county against such lot or parcel of land and it shall be
collected by the County Treasurer and paid to the city as other city taxes are
collected and paid. The city may pursue collection both by levying a special
assessment and in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments
thereto, but only until the full cost and applicable interest has been paid in
full.
(K.S.A. 12-1617f)
§ 8-405 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The public officer and the public officer’s authorized assistants,
employees, contracting agents or other representatives are hereby expressly
authorized to enter upon private property at all reasonable hours for the
purpose of cutting, destroying and/or removing such weeds in a manner not
inconsistent with this article.
§ 8-406 UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or to attempt to
prevent the public officer or the public officer’s authorized representative
from entering upon any such lot or piece of ground or from proceeding with such
cutting and destruction. Such interference shall constitute a code violation.
§ 8-407 NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   (a)   Nothing in this article shall affect or impair the rights of the city
under the provisions of K.S.A. Ch. 2, Art. 13, relating to the control and
eradication of certain noxious weeds.
   (b)   For the purpose of this article, the term noxious weeds shall mean
kudzu (Pueraria lobata), field bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea repens), hoary cress (Cardaria draba), Canada thistle
(Cirsium arvense), quackgrass (Agropyron repens), leafy spurge (Euphorbia
esula), bur ragweed (Ambrosia grayii), pignut (Hoffmannseggia densiflora), musk
(nodding) thistle (Carduus nutans L.), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense) and
sericea lespedeza (Lespedeza cuneata)
(K.S.A. 2-1314)
ARTICLE 5: MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
Section
   
8-501   Title
   
8-502   General
   
8-503   Declaration of policy
   
8-504   Definitions
   
8-505   Duty of occupant or owner of occupied or unoccupied building and its
premises or vacant premises
   
8-506   Regulations for the use and occupancy of dwellings
   
8-507   Maintenance and repair; dwellings
   
8-508   Designation of unfit dwellings
   
8-509   Designation of blighted premises (residential and nonresidential)
   
8-510   Designation of blighted buildings and premises (nonresidential)
   
8-511   Inspection of buildings, structures and premises
   
8-512   Notice of violations; procedures
   
8-513   Public officer; authority
   
8-514   Governing body; authority
   
8-515   Order to correct and/or repair, remove or demolish
   
8-516   Demolition by public officer; procedure and costs
   
8-517   Conflict of laws; effect or partial invalidity
   
8-518   Governing body; appeals
   
8-519   Right of petition
§ 8-501 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Minimum Standard for Housing and
Premises Code”, and will be referred to herein as “this code”.
§ 8-502 GENERAL.
   Buildings used in whole or in part as a home or residence of a single family
or person and every building used in whole or in part as a home or residence of
two or more persons or families living in separate apartments and all premises,
either residential or nonresidential, shall conform to the requirements of this
code.
§ 8-503 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The governing body declares the purpose of this code is to protect, preserve
and promote the physical and mental health of the people; investigate and
control communicable diseases; regulate privately- and publicly-owned
structures or dwellings and all premises for the purpose of sanitation, public
health and general appearance; protect the safety of the people; and promote
the general welfare by legislation that shall be applicable to all dwellings,
structures and premises now in existence or hereafter constructed or developed
and which legislation:
   (a)   Establishes minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities for
light, ventilation and heating, for safety from fire, for the use and location
and amount of space for human occupancy, and for safe and sanitary maintenance;
   (b)   Establishes standards concerning unsightly and blighted buildings and
premises, both residential and nonresidential structures;
   (c)   Determines the responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants;
and
   (d)   Provides for the administration and enforcement thereof.
§ 8-504 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
following definitions shall apply to the enforcement of this code.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly underground, but having
less than half its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of the
adjoining ground.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground, and
having half or more than half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
   DWELLING. Any building that is wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided, that temporary housing
hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used, or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   HABITABLE DWELLING. Any structure or part thereof that shall be used as a
home or place of abode by one or more persons.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room designed to be used for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking purposes, excluding bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls and storage
places, or other similar places, not used by persons for extended periods.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of insects, rodents
or other pests.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, owns or has control of a premises
or of a building or structure or part thereof, in which dwelling units or
rooming units are let.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation, who jointly or severally along with
others, shall be in actual possession of, or have charge, care and control of
any structure or dwelling unit or premises within the city as owner, employee
or agent of the owner, or as trustee or guardian of the estate or person of the
title holder, and such person shall be deemed and taken to be the owner or
owner of such property within the true intent and meaning of this code and
shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this article to the same extent
as the record owner and notice to any such person shall be deemed and taken to
be a good and sufficient notice as if such person or persons were actually the
record owner or owner of such property.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, corporation, association or
partnership.
   PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and equipment:
gas or fuel pipes; gas or fuel burning equipment; water pipes; garbage disposal
units; waste pipes; water closets; sinks; installed dishwashers; lavatories;
bathtubs; shower baths; installed clothes-washing machines; catch basins;
drains; vents; and any other similar supplied fixtures, together with all
connections to water, sewer, gas or fuel lines.
   PREMISES. Any lot or land area, either residential or nonresidential, not
covered by a structure and which is subject to a city tax in part or in whole.
   PUBLIC OFFICER. The person designated by the city.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of a dwelling containing one or
more rooming units in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father,
or sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   REFUSE. For the purpose of this article, REFUSE shall include garbage and
trash.
      (1)   GARBAGE. Any accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable waste
matter that attends the preparation of, use of, cooking of, delivering of, or
storage of meats, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable.
      (2)   TRASH (COMBUSTIBLE). For the purpose of this article, COMBUSTIBLE
TRASH shall mean waste consisting of papers, cartons, boxes, barrels, wood and
excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture, bedding and leaves,
or any other combustible materials.
      (3)   TRASH (NON-COMBUSTIBLE). For the purpose of this article, NON-
COMBUSTIBLE TRASH shall mean waste consisting of metals, tin cans, glass,
crockery, other mineral refuse and ashes and street rubbish and sweepings,
dirt, sand, concrete scrap or any other non-combustible material.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to
something having a location on the ground.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter that is designed to be transportable and that is not attached to the
ground, house or building or another structure, or to any utilities system on
the same premises for more than 30 consecutive days, except when located in a
mobile home court duly licensed under laws of the city.
   WORDS, MEANINGS. Whenever the words “dwelling”, “dwelling unit”, “rooming
house”, “rooming unit”, “premises” are used in this article, they shall be
construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof”.
§ 8-505 DUTY OF OCCUPANT OR OWNER OF OCCUPIED OR UNOCCUPIED BUILDING AND ITS
PREMISES OR VACANT PREMISES.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the owner of every occupied or unoccupied
dwelling, building and premises, or vacant premises, including all yards, lawns
and courts to keep such property clean and free from any accumulation of filth,
rubbish, garbage or any similar matter as covered by §§
8-508 and
8-509.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of each occupant of a dwelling unit to keep in
clean condition the portion of the property that he or she occupies and of
which he or she has exclusive control, to comply with the rules and
regulations, and to place all garbage and refuse in proper containers. Where
care of the premises is not the responsibility of the occupant, then the owner
is responsible for violations of this code applicable to the premises.
   (c)   If receptacles are not provided by the owner, then the occupant shall
provide receptacles as may be necessary to contain all garbage and trash.
   (d)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single-dwelling unit shall
be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests
therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling
containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the unit primarily infested.
   (e)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, whenever
infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a
vermin-proof or reasonable insect-proof condition, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner and operator.
   (f)   Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the dwelling units in
any dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two
or more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of
the owner.
§ 8-506 REGULATIONS FOR THE USE AND OCCUPANCY OF DWELLINGS.
   (a)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for
occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit for the purpose of living, sleeping,
cooking or eating therein, that does not comply with the following
requirements.
   (b)   The following requirements are hereby declared essential to the health
and safety of the occupants of such dwelling or dwelling unit.
      (1)   Attached garages or non-dwelling areas. All non-dwelling
occupancies shall be separated from the dwelling unit by a fire-resistant wall
and if the dwelling and garage are covered by a common or connecting roof, then
the ceiling also must have a fire resistance rating of not less than one hour
as defined in the Building Code.
      (2)   Basement or cellar. The basement or cellar of any dwelling shall be
reasonably dry and ventilated and shall be kept free from rubbish accumulation.
      (3)   Basement dwelling units. The use of basements or cellars for
dwelling units is prohibited unless they comply with division (b)(18) below
governing ventilation, provided however, if occupied at the time of the passage
of this code and if it complies with all other provisions of this code, the
public officer may approve less than the required windows, if in his or her
opinion, the window area is not detrimental to the occupants.
      (4)   Bathing facilities. Every dwelling unit shall contain within a room
which affords privacy to a person in the room, a bathtub or shower in good
working condition and properly connected to an approved water and sewer system.
      (5)   Boarding and rooming houses. No room shall be used for sleeping
purposes unless the ceiling height is at least seven feet and there are at
least 400 cubic feet of air space for each occupant over six years of age. For
sleeping rooms with sloping ceilings, the ceiling height shall be at least
seven feet over at least 50% of the floor area.
         (A)   Bathing facilities shall be provided in the form of a tub or
shower for each eight occupants. Separate facilities shall be provided for each
sex and plainly marked.
         (B)   A flush water closet shall be provided for each six occupants
and shall be separated with the separate access from bathing facilities if more
than four occupants are served by each. Separate facilities shall be provided
for each sex and shall be plainly marked.
      (6)   Drainage. All courts, yards or other areas on the premises of any
dwelling shall be so graded and drained that there is no pooling of the water
thereon. Properly constructed wading and swimming pools and fish ponds are
excepted from this section.
      (7)   Entrances.
         (A)   There shall be for each dwelling unit a normally used separate
access either to a hallway, stairway or street that is safe and in good repair.
         (B)   A secondary exit to the ground shall be available in case of
fire through windows, porch roofs, ladders or any combination that is free of
hazard or egress.
      (8)   Floor area. Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square
feet of floor space for the first occupant thereof and at least 100 additional
square feet of floor space for every additional occupant thereof. The floor
space shall be calculated on the basis of total habitable room area, inside
measurements. No floor space shall be included in determining habitable room
area over which the ceiling is less than seven feet above the floor for the
purpose of this division (b)(8).
      (9)   Garbage and trash receptacles. Every dwelling and every dwelling
unit shall be provided with such receptacles, not exceeding 32-gallon capacity,
as may be necessary to contain all garbage and trash and such receptacles shall
at all times be maintained in good repair.
      (10)   Heating. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit shall be so
constructed, insulated and maintained and be provided by owner or occupant with
heating units so that it is capable of reaching an air temperature of 70°F
under ordinary winter conditions. The chimney of the dwelling or dwelling unit
shall be maintained in good order and the owner of the approved heating
equipment shall maintain it in good order and repair.
      (11)   Kitchen sink. In every dwelling unit containing two or more rooms,
there shall be at least one kitchen sink with public water under pressure and
connected to the public sewer, or if that sewer system is not available, to a
sewage disposal system approved by the City Health Department.
      (12)   Lavatory facilities. Every dwelling unit shall contain within its
walls a lavatory basin in good working condition and properly connected to an
approved water and sewer system and located in the same room as the required
flush water closet or as near to the room as practicable.
      (13)   Lighting. Every habitable room shall have a ceiling electric
outlet and a duplex outlet in wall or floor, or at least two wall or floor
outlets.
      (14)   Lighting of toilets and bathrooms. Every toilet and every bathroom
in every dwelling shall have at least one electric light in either the ceiling
or on the wall.
      (15)   Plumbing. All plumbing, water closets and other plumbing fixtures
in every dwelling or dwelling unit shall be maintained in good working order.
      (16)   Privies. All pit privies, privy vaults, “dry hopper” sewer-
connected privies and frost-proof closets are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
      (17)   Toilet facilities. There shall be at least one flush water closet
in good working condition for each dwelling unit, which flush water closet
shall be located within the dwelling and in a room that affords privacy.
      (18)   Ventilation. Every habitable room in a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall contain a window or windows openable directly to the outside air and the
total area of such window or windows shall be not less than 5% of the floor
area of such room. An approved system of mechanical ventilation or air
conditioning may be used in lieu of openable windows. Such system shall be
capable of providing not less than four air changes per hour, except that in
toilet compartments such system shall provide a complete air change every five
minutes and be automatically put in operation when the toilet compartment light
is in the “on” position.
      (19)   Water heating facilities. Every dwelling shall have supplied water
heating facilities that are installed in an approved manner and are maintained
and operated in a safe and good working condition and are properly connected
with the hot water lines to the kitchen sink, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
      (20)   Windows and doors. Every window and exterior door shall be
reasonably weather-tight, lockable and rodent-proof and shall be kept in good
working condition and good repair.
§ 8-507 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR; DWELLINGS.
   Every dwelling and every part thereof shall be maintained in good repair by
the owner or agent and be fit for human habitation. The roof shall be
maintained so as not to leak and all rainwater shall be drained therefrom so as
not to cause dampness in the walls or ceilings. All floors, stairways, doors,
porches, windows, skylights, chimneys, toilets, sinks, walls and ceilings shall
be kept in good repair and usable condition.
§ 8-508 DESIGNATION OF UNFIT DWELLINGS.
   The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and placarding of such unfit dwellings or dwelling units shall be carried out
in compliance with the following requirements.
   (a)   Existence of conditions. The public officer may determine, or five
citizens may petition in writing, that any dwelling unit is unfit for human use
or habitation if he, she or they find that conditions exist in such structure
that are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or morals of the
occupants of such buildings or other residents of the neighborhood, or which
shall have a blighting influence on properties in the area.
   (b)   Conditions generally. Such conditions may include the following
without limitation:
      (1)   Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accident or other
calamities.
      (2)   Lack of:
         (A)   Adequate ventilation;
         (B)   Light;
         (C)   Cleanliness; and
         (D)   Sanitary facilities.
      (3)   Dilapidation;
      (4)   Disrepair;
      (5)   Structural defects;
      (6)   Overcrowding;
      (7)   Inadequate ingress and egress;
      (8)   Unsightly appearance that constitute a blight to the adjoining
property, the neighborhood or the city; and
      (9)   Air pollution.
   (c)   Placarding; order to vacate. Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned
as unfit for human habitation, and so designated and placarded by the public
officer, shall be vacated within a reasonable time as so ordered.
   (d)   Notice of violation. Procedures as outlined in §
8-512 are applicable hereto.
   (e)   Compliance required before re-occupancy. No dwelling or dwelling unit
that has been condemned and placarded as unfit for human habitation shall again
be used for human habitation until written approval is secured from, and such
placard is removed by the public officer.
      (1)   The public officer shall remove such placard whenever the defect or
defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based have been
eliminated.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to let, lease, occupy or permit the
occupancy, whether for a consideration or not, of any dwelling so posted and
any violation of this provision shall constitute a public offense within the
meaning of this code.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface or remove the placard
from any dwelling or dwelling unit that has been condemned as unfit for human
habitation and placarded as such, except the public officer as herein provided,
and any violation of this provision shall constitute a public offense within
the meaning of this code.
§ 8-509 DESIGNATION OF BLIGHTED PREMISES (RESIDENTIAL AND NONRESIDENTIAL).
   The designation of unsightly and blighted premises and elimination thereof
shall be carried out in compliance with the following requirements.
   (a)   Public officer determinations. The public officer may determine, or
five citizens may petition in writing, that if the appearance of a premises is
not commensurate with the character of the properties in the neighborhood or
otherwise constitutes a blight to the adjoining property or the neighborhood or
the city for such reasons as, but not limited to:
      (1)   Dead trees or other unsightly natural growth;
      (2)   Unsightly stored or parked material, equipment, supplies,
machinery, trucks or automobiles or parts thereof; vermin infestation,
inadequate drainage; and
      (3)   Violation of any other law or regulations relating to the use of
land and the use and occupancy of the buildings and improvements.
   (b)   Notice of violation. Procedures as outlined in §
8-512 are applicable hereto.
§ 8-510 DESIGNATION OF BLIGHTED BUILDINGS AND PREMISES (NONRESIDENTIAL).
   (a)   Certain blighted conditions. Certain blighted conditions covered in §§
8-508 and
8-509 concerning buildings and premises that are on the tax roll of the city
are applicable to all nonresidential buildings and premises.
   (b)   Notice of violation. Procedures of notification shall follow those
prescribed in §
8-512.
§ 8-511 INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND PREMISES.
   (a)   For the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this
code, the public officer or his or her authorized representative is hereby
authorized to make inspections to determine the condition, use and occupancy of
dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and the premises upon which the same
are located. This requirement is applicable to existing dwellings or buildings.
   (b)   The public officer is not limited by the conditions in division (a)
above where new construction or vacant premises are involved and may make such
inspections at any appropriate time.
   (c)   The owner, operator and occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit and
rooming unit shall give the public officer, or his or her authorized
representative, during reasonable hours, free access to such dwelling, dwelling
unit and rooming unit, and its premises, for the purpose of such inspection,
examination and survey after identification by proper credentials.
   (d)   Every occupant of a dwelling shall give the owner thereof, or his or
her authorized agent or employee, access to any part of such dwelling, or its
premises, at all reasonable times, for the purpose of making such repairs or
alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the provisions of this
code or with any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated, or any order
issued pursuant to the provisions of this code.
§ 8-512 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Informal discussion. Whenever the public officer or his or her
authorized representative determines that there has been a violation of any
provision of this code, the public officer will arrange with the alleged
violator for an informal discussion of violations, and whether repair and
correction is justified.
   (b)   Formal hearing. If a satisfactory solution to the violations either by
correction, demolition or removal is not forthcoming, then a legal notice of a
formal hearing will be issued according to the following procedures:
      (1)   Shall be in writing;
      (2)   Shall list the violations alleged to exist or to have been
committed;
      (3)   Shall provide a reasonable time, but not less than 30 days in any
event for the correction of the violations particularized;
      (4)   Shall be addressed to and served upon the owner of the property,
the operator of the dwelling and the occupant of the dwelling unit or the
rooming unit concerned, if the occupant is or may be responsible for violation;
      (5)   If one or more persons whom the notice is addressed cannot be found
or served after diligent effort to do so, service may be made upon such person
or persons by posting a notice in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling
affected by the notice, in which event the public officer or his or her
authorized representative shall include in the record a statement as to why
such posting was necessary; and
      (6)   Delivery shall be by certified mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service. If service is made by certified mail, the public officer
or his or her authorized representative shall include in the record a verified
statement giving details regarding the mailing.
§ 8-513 PUBLIC OFFICER; AUTHORITY.
   For the purpose of protecting the city against unsightly or blighted
premises, also the health, welfare and safety of the inhabitants of dwellings
or dwelling units, the public officer referred heretofore is hereby authorized,
with the consent and prior knowledge of the governing body, to enforce
provisions of this code and of other laws that regulate or set standards
affecting buildings and premises.
§ 8-514 GOVERNING BODY; AUTHORITY.
   The governing body is hereby authorized:
   (a)   To informally review all alleged violations as provided in §
8-512(a) prior to notification prescribed in §
8-512(b);
   (b)   To take action as prescribed in §
8-512(b);
   (c)   To hear appeals if there is opposition to any order, requirement,
decision or determination by the public officer in enforcement of this code as
outlined in §
8-518; and
   (d)   Discretionary authority may be exercised in specific cases where
variance from the terms of the code as:
      (1)   Will not adversely affect the public health, safety or welfare of
inhabitants of the city;
      (2)   Is in harmony with the spirit of this code; and
      (3)   Where literal enforcement of the code will result in unnecessary
hardship.
§ 8-515 ORDER TO CORRECT AND/OR REPAIR, REMOVE OR DEMOLISH.
   At the time of the placarding and order to vacate specified by §
8-508(c) hereof, the public officer shall also issue and cause to be served
upon the owner a notice advising of the option of removal or demolition in lieu
of correction and/or repair following the procedures as outlined in §
8-512.
§ 8-516 DEMOLITION BY PUBLIC OFFICER; PROCEDURE AND COSTS.
   (a)   Failure to comply with the order under §
8-515 for the alteration or improvement of such structure, the public officer,
with the consent and prior knowledge of the governing body, may cause such
condemned structure to be removed or demolished and the premises improved to
eliminate the conditions outlined in §
8-509.
   (b)   The cost of demolition by a public officer shall be a lien upon the
property upon which the cost was incurred and such lien, including as a part
thereof an allowance of his or her costs and necessary attorney’s fees, may be
foreclosed in judicial proceedings in the manner provided or authorized by law
for loans secured by liens on real property or shall be assessed as a special
assessment upon the lot or parcel of land on which the structure was located
and the City Clerk at the time of certifying other city taxes, shall certify
the unpaid portion of the aforesaid costs and the County Clerk shall extend the
same on the tax rolls against the lot or parcel of land.
   (c)   If the structure is removed or demolished by the public officer, he or
she shall offer for bids and sell the structure or the materials of such
structure. The proceeds of such sale shall be credited against the cost of the
removal or demolition and, if there is any balance remaining, it shall be paid
to the parties entitled thereto after deduction of costs or judicial
proceedings, if any, including the necessary attorney’s fees incurred therein,
as determined by the court, if involved.
§ 8-517 CONFLICT OF LAWS; EFFECT OR PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
   (a)   Conflicts between the provisions of this code and with a provision of
any zoning, building, fire, safety or health ordinance or code of the city,
existing on the effective date of this article, the provision shall prevail
that establishes the higher standard.
   (b)   Conflicts between this article with a provision of any other ordinance
or code of the city existing on the effective date of this article that
establishes a lower standard, the provisions of this article shall be deemed to
prevail and such other laws or codes are hereby declared to be repealed to the
extent that they may be found in conflict with this code.
§ 8-518 GOVERNING BODY; APPEALS.
   (a)   Any person, firm or corporation considering themselves aggrieved by
the decision of the public officer and who desires to present a formal protest
to the governing body shall in writing, request a hearing before the governing
body within ten days after receiving notice of the decision from the public
officer, as provided in §
8-512(b). Such protest and request for a hearing shall be filed with the office
of the City Clerk.
   (b)   Upon receipt of a protest and request for a hearing, the City Clerk
shall notify in writing the governing body of such appeal.
   (c)   The governing body shall, within 30 days of receipt of protest and
request for a hearing, determine a date for the hearing.
   (d)   Notice of the date for the hearing shall be sent to the appellant at
least ten days before the hearing.
   (e)   Except where an immediate hazard exists as described in §
4-612 of this code, the filing of a protest and request for a hearing before
the governing body as specified in division (a) above shall operate as a stay
of the enforcement of the public officer’s order until such time as the
governing body has reached a decision on the matter.
§ 8-519 RIGHT OF PETITION.
   After exhausting the remedy provided in §
8-518, any person aggrieved by an order issued by the public officer and
approved by the governing body after a hearing on the matter may, within 30
days from the date that the order became final, petition the District Court of
the county in which the property is located to restrain the public officer from
carrying out the provisions of the order.
ARTICLE 6: RODENT CONTROL
Section
   
8-601   Definitions
   
8-602   Building maintenance
   
8-603   Notice to rat-stop; when city to do work
   
8-604   Failure to comply
   
8-605   Replace rat-stoppage
   
8-606   Notice to eradicate rats
   
8-607   Conditions conducive to harborage of rats
   
8-608   Inspections
§ 8-601 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure, whether public or private, that is adapted for
occupancy as a residence; the transaction of business; the rendering of
professional services; amusement; the display, sale or storage of goods, wares
or merchandise; or the performance of work or labor, including office
buildings, public buildings, stores, theaters, markets, restaurants, workshops
and all other houses, sheds and other structures on the premises used for
business purposes.
   OCCUPANT. The person that has the use of, controls or occupies any business
building or any portion thereof, whether owner or tenant. In the case of vacant
business buildings or any vacant portion of a business building, the owner,
agent or other person having custody of the building shall have the
responsibilities of an OCCUPANT of a building.
   OWNER. The owner of any building or structure, whether individual, firm,
partnership or corporation.
   RAT HARBORAGE. Any condition that provides shelter or protection for rats,
thus favoring their multiplication and continued existence in, under or outside
a structure of any kind.
   RAT-STOPPAGE. A form of rat-proofing to prevent the ingress of rats into
buildings from the exterior or from one building to another, consisting
essentially of the closing of all openings in the exterior walls, ground or
first floors, basements, roofs and foundations, that may be reached by rats
from the ground by climbing or by burrowing, with material or equipment
impervious to rat-gnawing.
§ 8-602 BUILDING MAINTENANCE.
   All buildings and structures located within the present or future boundaries
of the city shall be rat-stopped, freed of rats and maintained in a rat-stopped
and rat-free condition.
§ 8-603 NOTICE TO RAT-STOP; WHEN CITY TO DO WORK.
   Upon receipt of written notice from the governing body, the owner of any
building or structure specified therein shall take immediate measures for the
rat-stoppage of such building or structure. The work shall be completed in the
time specified in the written notice, which shall be within 15 days, or within
the time of any written extension thereof that may have been granted by the
governing body.
§ 8-604 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If the owner fails to comply with such written notice or extension, then the
governing body is authorized to take such action as may be necessary to
completely rat-stop the building or structure at the expense of the owner, and
the City Clerk shall submit bills for the expense thereof to the owner of the
building or structure. If the bills are not paid within 60 days, the City Clerk
shall certify the amount due to the City Accountant and the charge shall be a
lien against the property where the work has been done, and the owner shall be
promptly billed therefor. The expense thereof shall include the cost of labor,
materials, equipment and any other actual expense necessary for rat-stoppage.
§ 8-605 REPLACE RAT-STOPPAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any occupant, owner, contractor, public utility
company, plumber or any other person to remove the rat-stoppage from any
building or structure for any purpose and fail to restore the same in a
satisfactory condition or to make any new openings that are not closed or
sealed against the entrance of rats.
§ 8-606 NOTICE TO ERADICATE RATS.
   Whenever the governing body notifies in writing the owner of any building or
structure theretofore rat-stopped as hereinabove defined, that there is
evidence of rat infestation of the building or structure, the owner shall
immediately institute appropriate measures for freeing the premises so occupied
of all rats. Unless suitable measures for freeing the building or structure of
rats are instituted within five days after the receipt of notice, and unless
continually maintained in a satisfactory manner, the city is hereby authorized
to free the building or structure of rats at the expense of the owner thereof
and the City Clerk shall submit bills for the expense thereof to the owner of
the building or structure and if the same are not paid, the City Clerk shall
certify the amount due from the owner to the City Accountant, and the owner
shall be promptly billed therefor. The expense thereof shall include the cost
of labor, materials, equipment and any other actual expense necessary for the
eradication measures.
§ 8-607 CONDITIONS CONDUCIVE TO HARBORAGE OF RATS.
   (a)   All food and feed kept within the city for feeding animals shall be
kept and stored in rat-free and rat-proof containers, compartments or rooms
unless kept in a rat-stopped building.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, leave, dump or permit to
accumulate any garbage or trash in any building or premises so that the same
shall afford food and harborage for rats.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to accumulate or to permit the
accumulation on any premises or on any open lot any lumber, boxes, barrels,
bricks, stone or similar materials that may be permitted to remain thereon and
that are rat harborages, unless the same shall be placed on open racks that are
elevated not less than 12 inches above the ground, evenly piled or stacked.
   (d)   Whenever conditions inside or under any building or structure provide
such extensive harborage for rats that the Health Department deems it necessary
to eliminate such harborage, he or she may require the owner to install
suitable cement floors in basements or to replace wooden first or ground floors
or require the owner to correct such other interior rat harborage as may be
necessary to facilitate the eradication of rats in a reasonable time and
thereby to reduce the cost of such eradication.
§ 8-608 INSPECTIONS.
   The person designated by the city is empowered to make such inspections and
re-inspections of the interior and exterior of any building or structure as in
his or her opinion may be necessary to determine full compliance with this
article.
ARTICLE 7: INSURANCE PROCEEDS FUND
Section
   
8-701   Scope and application
   
8-702   Lien created
   
8-703   Same; encumbrances
   
8-704   Same; pro rata basis
   
8-705   Procedure
   
8-706   Fund created; deposit of monies
   
8-707   Building Inspector; investigation, removal of structure
   
8-708   Removal of structure; excess monies
   
8-709   Same; disposition of funds
   
8-710   Effect upon insurance policies
   
8-711   Insurers; liability
§ 8-701 SCOPE AND APPLICATION.
   The city is hereby authorized to utilize the procedures established by
K.S.A. 40-3901 et seq., whereby no insurance company shall pay a claim of a
named insured for loss or damage to any building or other structure located
within the city, where the amount recoverable for the loss or damage to the
building or other structure under all policies is in excess of 75% of the face
value of the policy covering such building or other insured structure, unless
there is compliance with the procedures set out in this article.
§ 8-702 LIEN CREATED.
   The governing body of the city hereby creates a lien in favor of the city on
the proceeds of any insurance policy based upon a covered claim payment made
for damage or loss to a building or other structure located within the city,
where the amount recoverable for all the loss or damage to the building or
other structure under all policies is in excess of 75% of the face value of the
policy(s) covering such building or other insured structure. The lien arises
upon any unpaid tax, special ad valorem levy, or any other charge imposed upon
real property by or on behalf of the city which is an encumbrance on real
property, whether or not evidenced by written instrument, or such tax, levy,
assessment, expense, or other charge that has remained undischarged for at
least one year prior to the filing of a proof of loss.
§ 8-703 SAME; ENCUMBRANCES.
   Prior to final settlement on any claim covered by § 8-702, the insurer or
insurers shall contact the County Treasurer, Leavenworth County, Kansas, to
determine whether any such encumbrances are presently in existence. If the same
are found to exist, the insurer or insurers shall execute and transmit in an
amount equal to that owing under the encumbrances a draft payable to the County
Treasurer, Leavenworth County, Kansas.
§ 8-704 SAME; PRO RATA BASIS.
   Such transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro rata basis by all insurance
companies insuring the building or other structure.
§ 8-705 PROCEDURE.
   (a)   When final settlement on a covered claim has been agreed to or arrived
at between the named insured or insureds and the company or companies, and the
final settlement exceeds 75% of the face value of the policy covering any
building or other insured structure, and when all amounts due the holder of a
first real estate mortgage against the building or other structure, pursuant to
the terms of the policy and endorsements thereto, shall have been paid, the
insurance company or companies shall execute a draft payable to the City
Accountant in an amount equal to the sum of 15% of the covered claim payment,
unless the Chief Building Inspector of the city has issued a certificate to the
insurance company or companies that the insured has removed the damaged
building or other structure, as well as all associated debris, or repaired,
rebuilt, or otherwise made the premises safe and secure.
   (b)   Such transfer of funds shall be on a pro rata basis by all companies
insuring the building or other structure. Policy proceeds remaining after the
transfer to the city shall be disbursed in accordance with the policy terms.
   (c)   Upon the transfer of the funds as required by division (a) above, the
insurance company shall provide the city with the name and address of the named
insured or insureds, the total insurance coverage applicable to said building
or other structure, and the amount of the final settlement agreed to or arrived
at between the insurance company or companies and the insured or insureds,
whereupon the Chief Building Inspector shall contact the named insured or
insureds by certified mail, return receipt requested, notifying them that said
insurance proceeds have been received by the city and apprise them of the
procedures to be followed under this article.
§ 8-706 FUND CREATED; DEPOSIT OF MONIES.
   The City Accountant is hereby authorized and shall create a fund to be known
as the Insurance Proceeds Fund. All monies received by the City Accountant as
provided for by this article shall be placed in said fund and deposited in an
interest-bearing account.
§ 8-707 BUILDING INSPECTOR; INVESTIGATION, REMOVAL OF STRUCTURE.
   (a)   Upon receipt of monies as provided for by this article, the City
Accountant shall immediately notify the Chief Building Inspector of said
receipt, and transmit all documentation received from the insurance company or
companies to the Chief Building Inspector.
   (b)   Within 30 days of the receipt of said moneys, the Chief Building
Inspector shall determine, after prior investigation, whether the city shall
instigate proceedings under the provisions of K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as
amended.
   (c)   Prior to the expiration of the 30 days established by division (b)
above, the Chief Building Inspector shall notify the City Accountant whether he
or she intends to initiate proceedings under K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as
amended.
   (d)   If the Chief Building Inspector has determined that proceedings under
K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as amended shall be initiated, he or she will do so
immediately but no later than 45 days after receipt of the monies by the City
Accountant.
   (e)   Upon notification to the City Accountant by the Chief Building
Inspector that no proceedings shall be initiated under K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq.,
as amended, the City Accountant shall return all such monies received, plus
accrued interest, to the insured or insureds as identified in the communication
from the insurance company or companies. Such return shall be accomplished
within 45 days of the receipt of the monies from the insurance company or
companies.
§ 8-708 REMOVAL OF STRUCTURE; EXCESS MONIES.
   If the Chief Building Inspector has proceeded under the provisions of K.S.A.
12-1750 et seq., as amended, all monies in excess of that which is ultimately
necessary to comply with the provisions for the removal of the building or
structure, less salvage value, if any, shall be paid to the insured.
§ 8-709 SAME; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   If the Chief Building Inspector, with regard to a building or other
structure damaged determines that it is necessary to act under K.S.A. 12-1756,
any proceeds received by the City Accountant under the authority of §
8-705(a) relating to that building or other structure shall be used to
reimburse the city for any expenses incurred by the city in proceeding under
K.S.A. 12-1756. Upon reimbursement from the insurance proceeds, the Chief
Building Inspector shall immediately effect the release of the lien resulting
therefrom. Should the expenses incurred by the city exceed the insurance
proceeds paid over to the City Accountant under §
8-705(a), the Chief Building Inspector shall publish a new lien as authorized
by K.S.A. 12-1756, in an amount equal to such excess expenses incurred.
§ 8-710 EFFECT UPON INSURANCE POLICIES.
   This article shall not make the city a party to any insurance contract, nor
is the insurer liable to any party for any amount in excess of the proceeds
otherwise payable under its insurance policy.
§ 8-711 INSURERS; LIABILITY.
   Insurers complying with this article or attempting in good faith to comply
with this article shall be immune from civil and criminal liability and such
action shall not be deemed in violation of K.S.A. 40-2404 and any amendments
thereto, including withholding payment of any insurance proceeds pursuant to
this article, or releasing or disclosing any information pursuant to this
article.
ARTICLE 8: EXCESSIVE NOISE
Section
   
8-801   Excessive noise prohibited
   
8-802   Horns, warning devices
   
8-803   Radios, phonographs, etc.
   
8-804   Loudspeakers, sound amplifiers
   
8-805   Defect in vehicle or load
   
8-806   Heavy equipment
   
8-807   Blowers and engines
   
8-808   Screeching of tires
   
8-809   Power mowers; construction and demolition
§ 8-801 EXCESSIVE NOISE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise which either
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of others, within the city.
(Ord. 736-2023, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 8-802 HORNS, WARNING DEVICES.
   The sounding of any horn or other warning device on any automobile,
motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or public place of the city, except
as a danger warning, the creating by means of any such warning device of any
unreasonably loud or harsh sound, the sounding of any such device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time, and the use of such warning device
when traffic for any reason is held up, shall be deemed a violation of this
article.
(Ord. 736-2023, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 8-803 RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, ETC.
   (a)   Using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any
radio receiving set, television set, musical instrument, phonograph or other
machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such a manner as
to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants, or at
any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the
persons who are in the room, vehicle or chamber in which such machine or device
is operated and who are voluntary listeners thereto, shall be deemed a
violation of this article.
   (b)   The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or
device between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be
plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building, structure or
vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of
this section.
(Ord. 736-2023, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 8-804 LOUDSPEAKERS, SOUND AMPLIFIERS
   It is unlawful for any person to play, use or operate on the streets, alleys
or public grounds of the city any instrument known as a loudspeaker or sound
amplifier without first procuring a permit therefore from the City Manager.
Such permit shall be granted or refused at the discretion of the City Manager.
The fee for permits under this section shall be as provided in the city fee
schedule.
(Ord. 736-2023, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 8-805 DEFECT IN VEHICLE OR LOAD.
   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded
or in such manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling
or other noise shall be deemed a violation of this article.
(Ord. 736-2023, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 8-806 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   The operation between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any pile
driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or
other appliance, the use of which is attended by loud or unusual noise, shall
be deemed a violation of this article.
(Ord. 736-2023, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 8-807 BLOWERS AND ENGINES.
   The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan or any internal-
combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to the explosion of
operating gases or fluids, unless the noise from such blower or fan is muffled
and such engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to deaden such
noise, shall be deemed a violation of this article.
(Ord. 736-2023, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 8-808 SCREECHING OF TIRES.
   The operation of any motor vehicle in such a way as to cause the tires
thereof to screech, except where the same is necessarily caused in an emergency
in an attempt by the operator to avoid an accident or the causing of damage or
injury, shall be deemed a violation of this article.
(Ord. 736-2023, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 8-809 POWER MOWERS; CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor-driven or power-operated
lawnmower, or to engage in any construction or demolition work within the city
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following day; provided,
however, that in the event of an emergency, a permit may be issued exempting
any person from this section for any period of time specified on the face of
the permit. The permit may be issued free of charge by the Police Department.
This section shall not apply to emergencies of any governmental subdivision or
any public utility
(Ord. 736-2023, passed 8-15-2023)
CHAPTER IX: MUNICIPAL COURT
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
9-101   Municipal Court established
   
9-102   Municipal Judge; compensation
   
9-103   Sessions
   
9-104   Prosecutions; docket
   
9-105   Court costs
§ 9-101 MUNICIPAL COURT ESTABLISHED.
   The officers of the Municipal Court of the city shall be the Municipal
Judge, governing body and any others appointed by the governing body of the
city.
(Ord. 657, passed 1-1-2002)
§ 9-102 MUNICIPAL JUDGE; COMPENSATION.
   (a)   The Municipal Judge shall have power to enforce obedience to all
orders, writs, rules and judgments made by him or her, and may fine or imprison
or both for contempt, in the same manner and to the same extent as the District
Court. The Municipal Judge will not be required to give bond for the faithful
performance of his or her duties, and he or she shall hold court as necessary
Monday through Saturday of each week. The jurisdiction of the Judge and Court
shall be co-extensive with the boundaries of the city as provided by the laws
of the state.
   (b)   The Municipal Judge shall receive compensation for his or her services
a fee not to exceed $125 per hour with a one hour minimum per court session of
the Municipal Court of the city, regardless of the disposition of the case.
(Ord. 657, passed 1-1-2002)
§ 9-103 SESSIONS.
   (a)   The governing body of the city shall provide and furnish an office,
such dockets and other supplies as are required for the efficient operation of
the court and its proceedings.
   (b)   A city officer shall attend all sessions of the court.
   (c)   Any elected official of the city or officers appointed by the
governing body of the city may arrest without process every person found
violating any of the ordinances of the city or criminal laws of the state.
(Ord. 657, passed 1-1-2002)
§ 9-104 PROSECUTIONS; DOCKET.
   All prosecutions for violating any city ordinance shall be entitled “The
City of Linwood against _________________”; and the Municipal Judge shall state
in his or her docket the name of the complaint, the nature of the character of
the offense, the date of the trial, the names of all witness’s sworn and
examined, the findings of the court, the judgment of fine and costs, the date
of payment, the date of issuing commitments, if any, and every other fact
necessary to show the full proceedings in each case. The procedure in the
Municipal Court shall be as provided in the laws of the state.
(Ord. 657, passed 1-1-2002)
§ 9-105 COURT COSTS.
   (a)   The City of Linwood, a city of the third class, by virtue of the power
vested in it by Article 12, § 5, of the Constitution of the state, hereby
elects to exempt and does exempt itself from and make inapplicable to it K.S.A.
12-4112 adopted by the State Legislature that is not uniformly applicable to
all cities, the legislature having made special provisions applying to certain
classes of cities in said enactment.
   (b)   In all cases before the Municipal Court of the city where the accused
person or persons pleads guilty or nolo contendere, or is found guilty of a
violation of an ordinance of the city, there shall be assessed costs for the
administration of justice in said Court, and such costs shall be determined by
a properly adopted ordinance of the city.
   (c)   All money collected as fines and costs shall on or before the first
Monday of each month be paid by the Municipal Judge to the City Accountant for
the credit of the General Fund of the city. Monies collected through action on
recognizance shall be paid over in like manner.
   (d)   All money due or received by any city officer on account of any reward
accruing to him or her in consequence of any action in the line of duty shall
be paid to the City Accountant and deposited to the credit of the General Fund
of the city.
   (e)   In all cases docketed in Municipal Court of the city, in which the
defendant is summoned, the Municipal Judge shall tax as cost in the case the
sum of $75 in addition to witness fees, if any, in the amount of $20 minimum
for each witness, except officers of the city. All cases will also be taxed a
$25 administration fee.
(Charter Ord. 1-1998, passed 5-14-1998; Ord. 657, passed 1-1-2002; Ord. 657-A,
passed 4-3-2012)
CHAPTER X: POLICE
RESERVED
CHAPTER XI: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Article
      
1.   UNIFORM OFFENSE CODE
      
2.   LOCAL REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 1: UNIFORM OFFENSE CODE
Section
   
11-101   Incorporating uniform public offense code
§ 11-101 INCORPORATING UNIFORM PUBLIC OFFENSE CODE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of regulating
public offenses within the corporate limits of the city, that certain code
known as the Uniform Public Offense Code, edition of 2002, prepared and
published in book form by the League of Kansas Municipalities, Topeka, Kansas.
No fewer than three copies of said Uniform Public Offense Code shall be marked
or stamped “Official Copy as Incorporated by the Code of the City of Linwood,
Kansas”, and to which shall be attached a copy of this Ord. 665, and filed with
the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public at all
reasonable hours.
(Ord. 665, passed 10-1-2002)
ARTICLE 2: LOCAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
11-201   Jumping or diving from the bridge or bridge structures crossing over
Stranger Creek
§ 11-201 JUMPING OR DIVING FROM THE BRIDGE OR BRIDGE STRUCTURES CROSSING OVER
STRANGER CREEK.
   (a)   Any and all diving or jumping into the waters of Stranger Creek from
any bridge or adjoining structures within the city is prohibited.
   (b)   Any person found in violation of this section shall be subject to a
fine of up to $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than ten days.
(Ord. 648, passed 6-6-2000)
CHAPTER XII: PUBLIC PROPERTY
   Article
      
1.   CITY PARKS
      
2.   STREET NAME CHANGES; BUILDING NUMBERING
ARTICLE 1: CITY PARKS
Section
   
12-101   City laws extended to park
   
12-102   Reserved
   
12-103   Damaging park property
   
12-104   Vehicle regulations
   
12-105   Hunting
   
12-106   Fires
   
12-107   Camping prohibited
   
12-108   Sanitation
   
12-109   Prohibition against alcoholic beverages and cereal malt beverages
   
12-110   Preservation of natural state
   
12-111   General regulations
§ 12-101 CITY LAWS EXTENDED TO PARK.
   The laws of the city shall extend to and cover all city parks.
§ 12-102 RESERVED.
§ 12-103 DAMAGING PARK PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except duly authorized city employees,
to willfully or wantonly remove, injure, tarnish, deface or destroy any
building, walk, bench, tree or improvement or property of any kind belonging to
any park owned by the city.
§ 12-104 VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Motor vehicles, including any vehicle licensed to operate on public
streets, roads and highways and motorbikes, go-carts, snowmobiles and other
motorized off-the-road vehicles shall be operated in a safe and prudent manner
at all times in park areas.
   (b)   Except as provided in division (d) below, it shall be unlawful for any
person to park any motor vehicle in any area not designated for such purpose.
   (c)   Except as provided in division (d) below, it shall be unlawful for any
person to operate any motor vehicle within any city park except upon roads,
drives and parking areas established by the city.
   (d)   Divisions (b) and (c) above shall not apply to authorized city
employees while engaged in the maintenance and care of the park.
   (e)   It shall be unlawful to operate any such vehicle in any park area at a
speed in excess of 20 mph.
§ 12-105 HUNTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pursue, catch, trap, maim, kill,
shoot or take any wildlife, either bird or animal, in any manner at any time
while in any city park.
§ 12-106 FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or kindle any fire in any city
park except in the ovens, stoves or grills provided for that purpose by the
city, and such fire must be extinguished by the person, persons or parties
starting such fire, immediately after use thereof.
§ 12-107 CAMPING PROHIBITED.
   Overnight camping is hereby prohibited in city parks except where posted.
§ 12-108 SANITATION.
   All waste material, paper, trash, rubbish, tin cans, bottles, containers,
garbage and refuse of any kind whatsoever shall be deposited in disposal
containers provided for such purposes. No such waste or contaminating material
shall be discarded otherwise. No sticks, stones, trash or other objects shall
be thrown or discarded in or on any park lands, fountains, pools, drinking
fountains, sanitary facilities or other improvements.
§ 12-109 PROHIBITION AGAINST ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to use, consume or have on
the premises of any park or other city property within the city any alcoholic
liquor or cereal malt beverage.
§ 12-110 PRESERVATION OF NATURAL STATE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except duly authorized city employees,
to take, injure or disturb any live or dead tree, plant, shrub or flower, or
otherwise interfere with the natural state of city parks.
§ 12-111 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   The city may post such rules and regulations, as are approved by the
governing body, pertaining to the use of the city parks in a conspicuous place
in each city park. Violations of these posted rules shall constitute a
violation of this code.
ARTICLE 2: STREET NAME CHANGES; BUILDING NUMBERING
Section
   
12-201   Specific name changes
   
12-202   Divide lines
   
12-203   Numbering buildings
   
12-204   System of numbering
   
12-205   Manner of designating numbers
   
12-206   Two or more buildings on the same 25 feet
   
12-207   Numbering
§ 12-201 SPECIFIC NAME CHANGES.
   Names of the following streets shall be changed as follows:
From To
From            To
North Avenue    First Street
Morgan Avenue   Second Street
Cedar Street    Second Street
Adams Avenue    Third Street
Maple Street    Third Street
Harris Avenue   Fourth Street
Walnut Street   Fourth Street
Olive Street    Fifth Street
Delaware Street Fifth Street
Bridge Street   Sixth Street
 
(Ord. 546, passed 3-22-1983)
§ 12-202 DIVIDE LINES.
   (a)   K-32 Highway will serve as the north and south divide line.
   (b)   Main Street will serve as the east and west divide line.
(Ord. 546, passed 3-22-1983)
§ 12-203 NUMBERING BUILDINGS.
   (a)   Numbers on buildings on the south and west sides of the street shall
be odd numbers.
   (b)   Numbers on buildings on the north and east sides of the street shall
be even numbers.
(Ord. 546, passed 3-22-1983)
§ 12-204 SYSTEM OF NUMBERING.
   The system of numbering shall begin with 100, each block a succeeding
hundred, alternating the numbering of the buildings by two on each side of the
street.
(Ord. 546, passed 3-22-1983)
§ 12-205 MANNER OF DESIGNATING NUMBERS.
   Each 25 feet of street frontage constitutes a number. The proper number for
a house or building may be secured from the City Clerk per the officially
designated city plat adopted, approved and made the official plan which is on
file at City Hall.
(Ord. 546, passed 3-22-1983)
§ 12-206 TWO OR MORE BUILDINGS ON THE SAME 25 FEET.
   In case there are two or more dwellings, buildings, apartments or rooms,
including street stairway entrances, located on the same 25-foot space, the
second dwelling, building, apartment or entrance shall be numbered the same as
the first with, an alphabetical letter assigned to each unit.
(Ord. 546, passed 3-22-1983)
§ 12-207 NUMBERING.
   The numbering placed on any building or structure shall be at least three
inches in height, made of non-rusting material and shall be of such color and
placed on the building or other structures in such a position that it can be
easily seen from the street fronting the building, structure or entrance
intended to be numbered.
(Ord. 546, passed 3-22-1983)
CHAPTER XIII: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   Article
      
1.   SIDEWALKS
      
2.   STREETS
      
3.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
4.   SNOW AND ICE
ARTICLE 1: SIDEWALKS
Section
   
13-101   Permit required
   
13-102   Sidewalk grade
   
13-103   Same; specifications
   
13-104   Same; petition
   
13-105   Same; condemnation, reconstruction
   
13-106   Notice; publication
   
13-107   Right of abutting owner
   
13-108   Repairs by owner or city
   
13-109   Performance, statutory bond
   
13-110   Obstructing sidewalks
   
13-111   Same; exception
§ 13-101 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, reconstruct or repair any sidewalk within
the city until the plans first have been approved by the governing body and a
permit issued for such work by the City Clerk.
§ 13-102 SIDEWALK GRADE.
   Hereafter, all sidewalks constructed or reconstructed in the city shall be
constructed on the established grade. When the governing body shall order a
sidewalk constructed as hereafter provided, the city shall pay the cost of
bringing the street to grade for the sidewalk. Where no grade has been
established, the owner of abutting property may construct a sidewalk on the
natural grade. If the grade has been established, the City Clerk shall furnish
the property owner with the official grade by reference to a stated distance
above or below the street grade.
(K.S.A. 12-1801, 12-1807)
§ 13-103 SAME; SPECIFICATIONS.
   Hereafter, all sidewalks shall be of single-course construction and shall be
constructed and laid in accordance with standard plans and specifications
hereby adopted by reference and filed in the office of the City Clerk as
provided by K.S.A. 12-1802. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to construct, reconstruct or repair any sidewalk except as provided
by this article.
§ 13-104 SAME; PETITION.
   When a petition signed by no fewer than ten citizens owning real estate in
the city requesting construction of a sidewalk is filed with the City Clerk,
the governing body may in its discretion, by a resolution, order such sidewalk
constructed as herein provided.
(K.S.A. 12-1803)
§ 13-105 SAME; CONDEMNATION, RECONSTRUCTION.
   When any sidewalk, in the opinion of the governing body, becomes inadequate
or unsafe for travel thereon, the governing body may adopt a resolution
condemning such sidewalk and providing for the construction of a new sidewalk
in the place of the sidewalk condemned.
(K.S.A. 12-1804)
§ 13-106 NOTICE; PUBLICATION.
   The resolution providing for the construction or reconstruction of a
sidewalk, as the case may be, shall give the owner of the abutting property not
less than 30 days nor more than 60 days after its publication one time in the
official city paper in which to construct or cause to be constructed or
reconstructed the sidewalk at his or her own expense. If the sidewalk is not
constructed by the property owner within the time specified, the governing body
shall cause the work to be done by contract.
(K.S.A. 12-1805)
§ 13-107 RIGHT OF ABUTTING OWNER.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prohibit the owner of property
abutting on a street, who desires to construct or reconstruct a sidewalk at his
or her own expense and in accordance with official plans and specifications for
the purpose and which meet such other requirements as would have to be met if
the sidewalk were constructed or reconstructed by the city, to construct or
reconstruct a sidewalk without any petition or a condemning resolution by the
governing body. If such property owner desires the sidewalk to be constructed
and reconstructed by the city and an assessment levied as provided by law in
other cases, he or she shall file a request with the governing body. The
governing body, in its discretion, may provide for the construction or
reconstruction of the sidewalk requested in the same manner as in other cases
where citizens or taxpayers petition the governing body.
(K.S.A. 12-1806)
§ 13-108 REPAIRS BY OWNER OR CITY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of the abutting property to keep the
sidewalk in repair, but the city may, after giving five days’ notice to the
owner or his or her agent, if known, of the necessity for making repairs or
without notice if the lot or piece of land is unoccupied, make all necessary
repairs at any time. The same shall be done and the cost thereof assessed
against the lot or piece of land abutting on the sidewalk so repaired as may be
provided by law.
(K.S.A. 12-1808)
§ 13-109 PERFORMANCE, STATUTORY BOND.
   In any case where the reconstruction or construction of a sidewalk is
required to be done by contract as provided in §
13-106 hereof, the governing body may require the contractor to give a bond for
the faithful performance of the contract and for the construction of the
sidewalk in accordance with the plans and specifications, ordinances of the
city or laws of the state, and for all contracts exceeding $1,000 entered into
by the city for any such purpose, a statutory lien bond required by K.S.A. 60-
1111 shall be furnished.
§ 13-110 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or construct any step or other
obstruction, whether temporary or permanent, or to store, leave or allow to be
left any implements, tools, merchandise, goods, containers, benches, display or
show cases, on any sidewalks or other public ways in the city or to obstruct
the same longer than is necessary for loading or unloading any such article or
object.
§ 13-111 SAME; EXCEPTION.
   The governing body may authorize the granting of temporary permits in
connection with a building or moving permit for limited times only to the owner
of property abutting on any sidewalk to use or encumber such sidewalk or public
way of the city during the construction of any building or improvement thereon.
No permit shall be issued for such purpose until plans for warning and
safeguarding the public during such use of sidewalks shall have been submitted
by the owner or his or her contractor and approved by the governing body.
ARTICLE 2: STREETS
Section
   
13-201   Excavation permit
   
13-202   Same; bond
   
13-203   Same; filed
   
13-204   Same; barricades
   
13-205   Same; unlawful acts
   
13-206   Cutting curbs; pavement
   
13-207   Altering drainage
   
13-208   Unfinished pavement
   
13-209   Using streets
   
13-210   Dangerous objects in
   
13-211   Petroleum products in streets
   
13-212   Discharging water on streets
   
13-213   Burning in streets
   
13-214   Throwing in streets
   
13-215   Hauling loose material
   
13-216   Parking of trailers
§ 13-201 EXCAVATION PERMIT.
   No person, other than authorized city employees, shall dig or excavate any
hole, ditch, trench or tunnel in or under any street, alley, sidewalk, park or
other public property or public easement through private property without first
having secured a permit for such excavation. Application shall be made to the
City Clerk.
§ 13-202 SAME; BOND.
   (a)   No permit authorized in this article shall be issued until the
applicant has given to the city a good and sufficient bond in the sum of $5,000
conditioned that the applicant will faithfully comply with all the terms and
conditions of this article, and will indemnify and hold the city harmless
against all costs, expenses, damages and injuries by persons or by the city
sustained by reason of the carelessness or negligence of the permit holder. No
bond for this purpose shall run for longer than two years without being
renewed. The bond shall remain in full force and effect as to each excavation
for two years after the same has been made or completed.
   (b)   Any utility operating under a franchise or a contractor under contract
with the city for municipal improvement shall not be required to give bond as
provided in division (a) above.
   (c)   Each bond given under this section shall be approved by the City
Attorney and filed with the City Clerk.
§ 13-203 SAME; FILED.
   If the application is approved by the city, the City Clerk shall issue a
permit upon payment of a fee of $5. Each permit issued under the provisions of
this section shall cover only one specified excavation.
§ 13-204 SAME; BARRICADES.
   Any person to whom an excavation permit is issued shall enclose all
excavations that he or she make with sufficient barricades and danger signs at
all times, and shall maintain sufficient warning lights or flares at nighttime.
The holder of an excavation permit shall take all necessary precautions to
guard the public against all accidents from the beginning of the work to the
completion of the same.
§ 13-205 SAME; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except those having authority from the
city or any officer thereof to throw down, interfere with or remove any
barriers, barricades or lights placed in any street to guard and warn the
traveling public of any construction work thereon or adjacent thereto.
§ 13-206 CUTTING CURBS; PAVEMENT.
   (a)   No person shall cut any curb, gutter, pavement, blacktop or sidewalk,
or excavate any street, alley or other public grounds of the city for any
purpose without first obtaining a permit authorizing the same from the City
Clerk.
   (b)   Once the work for which the excavation was made has been completed,
the city shall restore the pavement, blacktop, sidewalk or other surfacing at
the expense of the person from whom the excavation was made.
   (c)   In lieu of the city replacing pavement, it may elect to authorize
utility companies or contractors to resurface streets or sidewalks with like
materials, subject to approval of the Street Superintendent.
§ 13-207 ALTERING DRAINAGE.
   No person shall change or alter any gutter, storm sewer, drain or drainage
structure that has been constructed or is being lawfully maintained or
controlled by the city, unless such change or alteration has been authorized or
directed by the governing body.
§ 13-208 UNFINISHED PAVEMENT.
   No person shall walk upon, drive or ride over or across any pavement,
sidewalk or incomplete grading that has not been opened for traffic.
§ 13-209 USING STREETS.
   (a)   No person shall occupy any portion of any street, alley or sidewalk
for the purpose of temporarily storing building materials without first
obtaining a permit for such temporary use from the governing body.
   (b)   No person may use any portion of any sidewalk or street right-of-way
for the purpose of displaying or offering for sale wares, goods, merchandise or
other items. Nothing in this article, however, shall be construed as
prohibiting the city governing body from temporarily waiving the prohibition of
this division (b) in connection with community promotions or community-wide
celebrations when such waiver is considered to be in the best interest of the
city.
§ 13-210 DANGEROUS OBJECTS IN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, throw, or cause to be placed
or thrown in or on any street, alley, sidewalk or other public grounds of the
city, any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, wire or other dangerous objects that
might wound any person or animal, or cut or puncture any pneumatic tire while
passing over the same.
§ 13-211 PETROLEUM PRODUCTS IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit or throw
any waste oil, fuel oil, kerosene, gasoline or other products of petroleum or
any acids into or upon any street or public grounds of the city, or willfully
to permit the same to be spilled, dripped or otherwise to come into contact
with the surface of any street, alley or sidewalk within the city.
§ 13-212 DISCHARGING WATER ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to throw or
discharge water into any ditch, street, avenue or alley in the city or to cause
any water to stand or form pools or to flow in a stream thereon. This section
shall not apply to persons cleaning or flushing such streets, avenues or alleys
under the authority of the governing body, nor to members of the Fire
Department.
§ 13-213 BURNING IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, or cause to be made, any fire
upon any of the paved streets, alleys or street intersections within the city.
§ 13-214 THROWING IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to throw or bat any ball, stone or other hard substance
into, on or across any street or alley or at or against any building or
vehicle.
§ 13-215 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful to haul over the streets or alleys of this city any
loose material of any kind except in a vehicle so constructed or maintained as
to prevent the splashing or spilling of any of the substances therein contained
upon the streets or alleys.
§ 13-216 PARKING OF TRAILERS.
   It shall be unlawful to park or put down trailers on any public street
right-of-way without requesting a variance from the governing body.
ARTICLE 3: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
13-301   Public tree care
   
13-302   Diseased trees; determination
   
13-303   Same; notice served
   
13-304   Same; failure of owner; duty of city
   
13-305   Same; prevent spread of disease
   
13-306   Dangerous, dead or diseased trees on private property
   
13-307   Trees on public property; cost borne by city
   
13-308   Costs on tax rolls
   
13-309   Injuring trees and shrubs
   
13-310   Fire hydrants, plantings adjacent to
§ 13-301 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares and public grounds as may be necessary to ensure safety when servicing
city utilities or to preserve the symmetry and beauty of public grounds. The
city may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part thereof that
is in an unsafe condition or, by reason of its nature, is injurious to sewers,
electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other public improvements, or
is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
§ 13-302 DISEASED TREES; DETERMINATION.
   Whenever any competent city authority or competent state or federal
authority shall file with the governing body a statement in writing based upon
a laboratory test or other supporting evidence that trees or tree materials or
shrubs located upon private property within the city are infected or infested
with or harbor any tree or plant disease or insect or larvae, the uncontrolled
presence of which may constitute a hazard to or result in the damage or
extinction of other trees or shrubs in the community, describing the same and
where located, the governing body shall direct the City Clerk to forthwith
issue notice requiring the owner or agent of the owner of the premises to treat
or to remove any such designated tree, tree material or shrub within a time
specified in the notice.
§ 13-303 SAME; NOTICE SERVED.
   Notice shall be served by a person designated by the city by delivering a
copy thereof to the owner and the person in possession of such property, or if
the same be unoccupied or the owner a nonresident of the city, then the City
Clerk shall notify the owner by mailing a notice by certified mail to his or
her last known address.
§ 13-304 SAME; FAILURE OF OWNER; DUTY OF CITY.
   If the owner or agent shall fail to comply with the requirements of the
notice within the time specified in the notice, then the city shall proceed to
have the designated tree, tree material or shrub, treated or removed and report
the cost thereof to the City Clerk. In lieu of city employees performing any
such work, the governing body may contract with any competent person, company
or corporation for the performance of such work.
§ 13-305 SAME; PREVENT SPREAD OF DISEASE.
   No tree, tree materials or shrubs as mentioned herein that have been cut
down, either by the property owner or by the city, shall be permitted to remain
on the premises, but shall be immediately treated, removed and burned or
immediately burned upon the premises, if safe to do so, so as to prevent the
spread of the tree disease.
§ 13-306 DANGEROUS, DEAD OR DISEASED TREES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (a)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within
the city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of 14 feet above the surface of the street
or right-of-way. The owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees,
or broken or decayed limbs that constitute a menace to the safety of the
public. The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street light or interferes with visibility of any traffic-control device
or sign.
   (b)   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dangerous,
dead or diseased trees on private property within the city, when such trees
constitute a hazard to life and property. The city will notify in writing the
owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at their own expense
within 60 days after the date of service of notice. The owners, within 30 days
of the notice, may request a hearing covering the ordered removal. In the event
of failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the city shall have the
authority to remove the trees and charge the cost of removal on the owner’s
property tax notice.
§ 13-307 TREES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; COST BORNE BY CITY.
   The city shall have the authority to treat or to remove any tree as defined
in §
13-301, or to remove any dead tree as mentioned herein, which is located within
the limits of any public right-of-way within the city. The adjacent property
owners shall not be responsible for the cost of treatment or removal of any
such trees within the public right-of-way and this expense shall be borne by
the city at large.
§ 13-308 COSTS ON TAX ROLLS.
   The City Clerk shall, at the time of certifying other city taxes to the
County Clerk, certify the unpaid costs for treatment or removal performed under
the authority of §§
13-304 to
13-306 and the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax roll of the county
against the lot or parcel of ground. The cost of such work shall be paid from
the General Fund or other proper fund of the city, and such fund shall be
reimbursed when payments therefor are received or when such assessments are
collected and received by the city.
§ 13-309 INJURING TREES AND SHRUBS.
   No person shall willfully break, cut, take away, destroy, injure, mutilate
or attempt to willfully break, cut, take away, destroy, injure or mutilate any
tree, shrub, vine, flower or landscaping standing, growing, or being upon the
premises in the possession of another, or growing on any public ground, street,
sidewalk, promenade or park in the city.
§ 13-310 FIRE HYDRANTS, PLANTINGS ADJACENT TO.
   No person shall plant, or cause to be planted, nor allow to grow upon
property owned by him or her any shrubs, trees or planting of any kind within
ten feet of any fire hydrant in the city, in order that every fire hydrant
shall be in full view day or night to fire apparatus approaching from any
direction.
ARTICLE 4: SNOW AND ICE
Section
   
13-401   Snow and ice to be removed
   
13-402   Same: exception; alternate remedy
   
13-403   Same; penalty
   
13-404   Removal may be made by city
   
13-405   Costs on tax rolls
§ 13-401 SNOW AND ICE TO BE REMOVED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or the occupant of any lots
abutting upon any sidewalks to fail to cause to be removed from such sidewalks
all snow and ice within 12 hours from the time that the snow fall or ice storm
ceases. If the snow falls or ice accumulates upon the sidewalks in the
nighttime, removal of same must be made within 12 hours after sunrise on the
following day.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place snow removed from private
property upon any public street, alley or sidewalk.
§ 13-402 SAME: EXCEPTION; ALTERNATE REMEDY.
   Where there shall be ice or compacted snow on any such sidewalk of such a
character as to make it practically impossible to remove the same, the
sprinkling of ashes, sand or other noncorrosive chemicals on the accumulation
of ice or snow in such a manner as to make such sidewalk reasonably safe for
pedestrian travel shall be deemed a sufficient compliance with the provisions
of this article until the ice or snow can be removed.
§ 13-403 SAME; PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of §
13-401 shall, upon conviction, be fined $25.
§ 13-404 REMOVAL MAY BE MADE BY CITY.
   If any owner or occupant of any lot or lots shall refuse or neglect to clean
or remove from the sidewalk abutting the lot or lots all snow and ice within
the time specified, the city may cause such snow and ice to be removed from
sidewalks and the cost thereof shall be assessed against such abutting lot or
lots, and the City Clerk shall certify the same to the County Clerk for
collection as provided by law.
§ 13-405 COSTS ON TAX ROLLS.
   The City Clerk shall, at the time of certifying other city taxes to the
County Clerk, certify the unpaid costs for removal of snow or ice performed
under the authority of §
13-404 and the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax roll of the county
against the lot or parcel of ground. The cost of such work shall be paid from
the General Fund or other proper fund of the city, and such fund shall be
reimbursed when payments therefor are received or when such assessments are
collected and received by the city.
CHAPTER XIV: TRAFFIC
   Article
      
1.   STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE
      
2.   LOCAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
3.   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
      
4.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
ARTICLE 1: STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE
Section
   
14-101   Incorporating standard traffic ordinance
   
14-102   Same; traffic infractions and traffic offenses
   
14-103   Penalty for scheduled fines
§ 14-101 INCORPORATING STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of regulating
traffic within the corporate limits of the City of Linwood, Kansas, that
certain standard traffic ordinance known as the “Standard Traffic Ordinance for
Kansas Cities”, 48th Edition, prepared and published in book form by the League
of Kansas Municipalities, Topeka, Kansas. One copy of said Standard Traffic
Ordinance shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as Adopted by Ordinance No.
726-2022.”
(Ord. 664, passed 10-1-2002; Ord. 726-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 14-102 SAME; TRAFFIC INFRACTIONS AND TRAFFIC OFFENSES.
   (a)   An ordinance traffic infraction is a violation of any section of this
article that prescribes or requires the same behavior as that prescribed or
required by a statutory provision that is classified as a traffic infraction in
K.S.A. 8-2118.
   (b)   All traffic violations that are included within this article, and are
not ordinance traffic infractions as defined in division (a) above, shall be
considered traffic offenses.
(Ord. 664, passed 10-1-2002; Ord. 726-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 14-103 PENALTY FOR SCHEDULED FINES.
   The fine for violation of an ordinance traffic infraction or any other
traffic offense for which the Municipal Judge establishes a fine in a fine
schedule shall not be less than $25 nor more than $100. A person tried and
convicted for violation of an ordinance traffic infraction or other traffic
offense for which a fine has been established in a schedule of fines shall pay
a fine fixed by the Court not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 664, passed 10-1-2002; Ord. 726-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
ARTICLE 2: LOCAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
14-201   Traffic-control devices and markings
   
14-202   Stop signs
   
14-203   Parking restricted
   
14-204   Parking of recreational vehicles
   
14-205   Reckless driving, penalties
   
14-206   Speed bump signs
   
14-207   Emergency, temporary, and experimental regulations
§ 14-201 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES AND MARKINGS.
   (a)   The standard traffic ordinance, as adopted, is hereby modified by
adding thereto the following.
   (b)   The governing body may, by resolution, establish and fix the location
of such traffic-control devices as may be deemed necessary to guide and warn
traffic under the provisions of this chapter, other traffic ordinances and the
state laws. The city shall place and maintain such traffic-control signs,
signals and devices when and as may be required by the authority of the
governing body to make effective the provisions of this chapter and other
ordinances for the regulation of traffic. Any official traffic-control device
placed pursuant to this section shall be marked and labeled on a map of the
city for the purpose of displaying all such traffic-control devices and shall
be filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the
public at all reasonable hours of business.
(Ord. 726-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 14-202 STOP SIGNS.
   Stop signs shall be erected and maintained at the following intersections:
   (a)   A stop sign for west bound traffic on First Street at the intersection
of First and Main Streets;
   (b)   A stop sign for east bound traffic on First Street at the intersection
of First and Bowen Streets;
   (c)   A stop sign for the south bound traffic on the west side of Park
Street;
   (d)   A stop sign for the west bound traffic on Second Street at the same
intersection;
   (e)   There are stop signs on the northwest, southeast, northeast and
southwest corners of the intersection of Main and Second Street;
   (f)   There are stop signs on the northwest, southeast, northeast and
southwest corners of the intersection of Bowen and Second Streets;
   (g)   A stop sign on the northwest corner of Locust and Second Street;
   (h)   A stop sign on the southeast corner of Thompson and Second Streets;
   (i)   There are stop signs on the northwest, southeast, northeast and
southwest corners of the intersection of Park and Third Streets;
   (j)   There are stop signs on the northwest, southeast, northeast and
southwest corners of the intersection of Park and Main Streets;
   (k)   A stop sign for the east bound traffic at the intersection of Third
and Bowen Streets;
   (l)   A stop sign for west bound traffic at the intersection of Third and
Bowen Streets;
   (m)   There are stop signs on the northwest, southeast, northeast and
southwest corners of the intersection of Park and Fourth Streets;
   (n)   There are stop signs on the northwest, southeast, northeast and
southwest corners of the intersection of Main and Fourth Streets;
   (o)   A stop sign for east bound traffic at the intersection of Fourth and
Bowen Streets;
   (p)   A stop sign for the west bound traffic at the intersection of Fourth
and Bowen Streets;
   (q)   A stop sign on the northwest corner of Ash and Fourth Street;
   (r)   A stop sign for east bound traffic at the intersection of Fifth
Street, Court and Main Streets;
   (s)   A stop sign for west bound traffic at the intersection of Fifth and
Main Streets;
   (t)   A stop sign for the west bound traffic on First Street at the
intersection of First and Bowen Streets;
   (u)   A stop sign for the north bound traffic on Locust Street at the
intersection of Second and Locust Streets;
   (v)   Stop signs for the north bound and south bound traffic on Bowen Street
at the intersection of Fourth and Bowen Streets;
   (w)   A stop sign for the north bound traffic on Park Street at the
intersection of Second and Park Streets;
   (x)   A stop sign for the south bound traffic on Vine Street at the
intersection of Fourth and Vine Streets;
   (y)   A stop sign for the south bound traffic on Locust Street at the
intersection of Third and Locust Streets; and
   (z)   A stop sign for Aspen Street at the intersection of Aspen Street and
Golden Road.
(Ord. 674-08, passed 10-27-2008; Ord. 674-08-A, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 674-08-
B, passed 8-7-2012; Ord. 674-08-C, passed 5-3-2016; Ord. 726-2022, passed 4-5-
2022)
§ 14-203 PARKING RESTRICTED.
   Parking is prohibited:
   (a)   On either side of Linden Lane north from K-32 Highway south to Second
Street;
   (b)   On either side of Bowen Street from Fourth to Fifth Street;
   (c)   Either side of Fifth Street Court; and
   (d)   On the east side of Bowen Street from First Street to Fourth Street.
(Ord. 641, passed 11-16-1999; Ord. 687, passed 2-19-2008; Ord. 726-2022, passed
4-5-2022)
§ 14-204 PARKING OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (a)   Purpose and policy. The purpose of this section is to regulate the
parking of recreational vehicles actively used as extended living
accommodations and/or sleeping accommodations, to discourage permanent or long-
term use of recreational vehicles for living or sleeping accommodations and to
encourage the overnight parking of such recreational vehicles in designated
areas within the city limits.
   (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      OCCUPY, OCCUPANCY or OCCUPIED. The use of any recreational vehicle by any
person for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes for any period of four
or more consecutive days.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
trust.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicular-type unit built on or for use on a
chassis designed as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping,
vacation, or travel use, and which has a body width not exceeding eight feet
and a body length not exceeding 40 feet; units may have their own power, or be
mounted on or drawn by another vehicle. RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall include
motor homes, travel trailers, truck campers, camping trailers, converted buses,
houseboats or other similar units.
   (c)   Recreational vehicle regulation. Except as otherwise provided herein,
it shall be unlawful to park or place any recreational vehicle which is
actively in use as sleeping or living accommodations within the city unless
said recreational vehicle is located in a recreational vehicle park. This
section shall not apply to the parking of recreational vehicles that are not
actively in use as sleeping or living accommodations purposes. State law and
city ordinances pertaining to vehicle parking shall apply to all recreational
vehicle parking the same as any other vehicle parked within the city.
   (d)   Exemption. Unless otherwise prohibited, recreational vehicles used for
sleeping and/or living accommodations may be parked on city streets in front of
and adjacent to a permanent residence or upon such permanent residents’ private
property when the owner or the operator of the recreational vehicle is visiting
the owner or occupant of the residence for a period not to exceed two weeks.
The owner or operator of the recreational vehicle so parked shall, upon the
request of a law enforcement officer or other authorized city representative,
provide verification that such owner or operator of the recreational vehicle is
a guest of the owner or occupant of the permanent residence. Such evidence can
be in the form of written or verbal authorization received directly from the
owner or occupant of the permanent residence.
   (e)   Utilities/hookups/connections. No electrical or water connections
shall be made by the recreational vehicle owner or operator to any outlet other
than to an outlet metered for and with the consent of the owner or occupant of
the permanent residence and only if there are no delinquent electrical charges
associated with said permanent residence. Such electrical or water connections,
if made, shall not exceed the two-week period as provided in division (d)
above, unless the visitor has obtained a permit as provided in division (f)
below. Under no circumstances shall there be any sewer connections made by the
owner or occupant of the recreational vehicle with any sewer access within the
city except that provided within a designated and lawful recreational vehicle
park. The dumping of waste from recreational vehicles on public or private land
except at a designated RV dump is expressly prohibited.
   (f)   Permits.
      (1)   Vacation trailers and motor homes may be used by visitors of
residents and shall be allowed on the residents’ property for a period of time
not to exceed 14 days (or longer if approved by the designated Building
Official) in any consecutive six-month period. The stay may be extended by two
weeks for a $50 fee; not to exceed 60 days total in any 12-month period. (This
is a $50 fee for every two-week period.)
      (2)   No part of this division (f) shall apply or be applied to travel
trailers which are legally existing under regulations in effect at the time of
the adoption of this section.
   (g)   Inspections. The designated Building Official, in his or her
discretion, may schedule an on-site inspection of a recreational vehicle to
assure compliance with all current regulations.
   (h)   Penalties. Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this section, or failing to comply therewith, shall be subject to
a fine not to exceed $300, and each violation shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (i)   Registration. Registration on all RVs, campers, and travel trailers,
for camping or travel use, must be registered, tagged and insured.
(Ord. 709-2014, passed 11-18-2014; Ord. 726-2022, passed 4-5-2022; Ord. 726A-
2023, passed 5-16-2023)
§ 14-205 RECKLESS DRIVING; PENALTIES.
   (a)   Any person who operates or halts any vehicle in willful or wanton
disregard for the rights or safety of others, or in such a manner as to
endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property, is guilty of reckless
driving.
   (b)   Except as provided in K.S.A. 8-2, 142, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor. Upon a first conviction of a violation of this section a person
shall be sentenced to not less than five days nor more than 90 days’
imprisonment or fined not less than $25 nor more than $500, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.
   (c)   On a second or subsequent conviction of a violation of this section, a
person shall be sentenced to not less than ten days nor more than six months’
imprisonment or fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 or both such fine
and imprisonment.
(Ord. 523, passed 6-19-1979; Ord. 726-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 14-206 SPEED BUMP SIGNS.
   Speed bump signs shall be placed on the following streets:
 
Main Street between 2nd Street and 3rd Street
Bowen Street between 1st Street and 2nd Street
 
(Ord. 715-2017, passed 4-4-2017; Ord. 726-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 14-207 EMERGENCY, TEMPORARY, AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police or City Traffic Engineer is hereby empowered to make
regulations necessary to make effective the provisions of this and other
traffic ordinances of the city, to establish no parking zones on special
occasions to expedite traffic or for safety purposes, signs being properly
posted, to make and enforce temporary or experimental regulations to cover
emergencies or special conditions or to determine the advisability of permanent
regulations for recommendation to the governing body, and test traffic-control
devices under actual conditions of traffic. No temporary or experimental
regulation shall remain in force for more than 90 days.
(Ord. 726-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
ARTICLE 3: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section
   
14-301   Unlawful operation of non-licensed motor powered vehicles
   
14-302   Golf carts and utility vehicles
   
14-303   Using headphones in vehicles
   
14-304   Riding on bicycles; seats; riders limited
   
14-305   Clinging to vehicles
   
14-306   Driving through or on private property to avoid traffic control
devices
   
14-307   Use of wireless communication devices
§ 14-301 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF NON-LICENSED MOTOR POWERED VEHICLES.
   The city’s adoption of the 48th Edition of the Standard Traffic Ordinance
will be amended as follows. The provisions for unlawful operation of all non-
licensed motor powered vehicles shall be as follows.
   (a)   Non-licensed vehicles shall include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   All terrain vehicles;
      (2)   Go carts;
      (3)   Mini bikes;
      (4)   Motorized scooters; and
      (5)   Handicap vehicles.
   (b)   Non-licensed motor powered vehicles do not include bicycles, mopeds,
golf carts, or utility vehicles.
   (c)   Definitions: Terms used in this section shall be defined as follows:
      (1)   ALL TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized non-highway vehicle 55 inches or
less in width measured from the outside of one tire rim to the outside of the
other tire rim, having a dry weight of 1,500 pounds or less, traveling on three
or more non-highway tires.
      (2)   MOTORIZED SCOOTER. Every self-propelled vehicle that has at least
two wheels in contact with the ground, an electric motor, handlebars, a brake,
and a deck that is designed to be stood upon when riding.
   (d)   Except as provided in division (d) and (e) below, it shall be unlawful
for any person to operate a non-licensed vehicle on:
      (1)   Any interstate highway, federal highway or state highway running
through the city limits; or
      (2)   City streets, alleys, public parking lots, rights-of-way, parks,
school property or upon property owned by the city.
   (e)   Licenses: all terrain vehicles, and motorized scooters licensed
through the city are exempt from the prohibitions set forth in division (c)(2)
above. Licenses require a fee of $25.
   (f)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (c) above, non-licensed
motor powered vehicles owned and operated by a federal, county or city agency,
or non-licensed motor powered vehicles owned and operated by persons
contracting with the federal, county or city, may be allowed to operate such
vehicles upon the right-of-way of any federal highway or state highway or upon
the streets, alleys and right-of-way of the city, parks or school property for
the purpose of conducting official government business or work contracted with
the government agency.
   (g)   No non-licensed motor powered vehicle shall be operated on any public
highway, street right-of-way, public parking lot or road between sunset and
sunrise unless equipped with lights as required by law for motorcycles.
   (h)   Exception: the Mayor with City Council approval may issue a permit to
operate non-licensed motor powered vehicle on city streets and right-of-way
(ROW) to commercial operators of non-licensed motor powered vehicles in
furtherance of a commercial activity which requires their use. Criteria for
issuance of said permit include the requirement of the commercial operator to
possess a valid driver’s license, to possess liability insurance for the
vehicle and have a legitimate business purpose requiring access to city streets
and/or ROW.
   (i)   No non-licensed motor powered vehicle shall be operated anywhere
within the corporate city limits in a manner as to create a loud, unnecessary
or unusual noise, which disturbs, annoys or interferes with the peace and quiet
of other persons.
   (j)   Permits: the city may allow the use of non-licensed motor vehicles on
city streets and rights- of-way by permit for users with special circumstances
such that the city is certain of the users’ need for the use of the non-
licensed motor vehicle, and certain that the use of the non-licensed motor
vehicle poses no threat or danger to the community. The permits may be issued
by the City Clerk with approval from the City Council.
   (k)   Duration of permit: permits may be issued for a period of a year, week
or a day depending on the circumstances.
   (l)   Commercial use: in the event the permit is for the use of a non-
licensed motor vehicle on city streets and rights-of-way in furtherance of a
commercial activity, there shall be the following additional criteria for the
issuance of said permit:
      (1)   The user of the non-licensed motor vehicle shall possess a valid
driver’s license;
      (2)   The user or owner of the non-licensed motor vehicle shall possess
liability insurance for the vehicle; and
      (3)   The user or owner of the non-licensed motor vehicle has a
legitimate business purpose requiring access to city streets and rights-of-way.
   (m)   Parades and special events: a permit for the use of a non-licensed
motor vehicle will not be required during a properly sanctioned parade or
special event conducted by the city or community organization.
(Ord. 679, passed 10-2-2007; Ord. 726-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 14-302 GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (a)   Definitions. Terms used in this section shall be defined as follows:
      GOLF CART. A motor vehicle that has not less than three wheels in contact
with the ground, an unladen weight of not more than 1,800 pounds, is designed
to be operated at not more than 25 miles per hour and is designed to carry not
more than four persons, including the driver.
      UTILITY VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is not less than 48 inches in
width, has an overall length, including the bumper, of not more than 160
inches, has an unladen weight, including fuel and fluids, of more than 1,500
pounds, can exceed 40 miles per hour and originally manufactured. This
definition does not include an all-terrain vehicle (ATV) which is a vehicle
designed with a seat to be straddled and which are not authorized to be on the
city streets.
   (b)   Golf carts and utility vehicles may be operated upon the public
highways, streets, roads and alleys within the corporate limits of the city,
subject to the following limitations:
      (1)   No golf cart or utility vehicle may be operated upon any public
highway, street, road and alley with a posted speed limit in excess of 30 miles
per hour.
      (2)   No person shall operate a golf cart or utility vehicle on any
public highway, street, road or alley within the corporate limits of the city
unless such person has a valid driver's license and is 18 years of age or
older.
      (3)   If the golf cart or utility vehicle is not equipped with
headlights, brake lights or taillights the operator must give hand signals to
indicate they are stopping or turning.
      (4)   No golf cart or utility vehicle shall be operated on any public
sidewalk.
   (c)   The provisions of this section shall not prohibit a golf cart or
utility vehicle from crossing a federal or state highway or a street or highway
with a posted speed limit greater than 30 miles per hour.
   (d)   No golf cart or utility vehicle shall be operated on any public
highway, street, road or alley between sunset and sunrise unless equipped with:
      (1)   Lights as required for motorcycles; and
      (2)   A properly mounted slow-moving vehicle emblem as required by K.S.A.
8-1717, and amendments thereto. (K.S.A. 8-15,108)
   (e)   Every person operating a golf cart or utility vehicle on the public
highways, streets, roads and alleys of the city shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to a driver or a vehicle imposed by law.
   (f)   Every owner of a golf cart and/or a utility vehicle shall provide
liability insurance coverage in accordance with the Kansas Automobile Injury
Reparations Act, K.S.A. § 40-3101 et seq., and amendments thereto.
(Ord. 726-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 14-303 USING HEADPHONES IN VEHICLES.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle on the streets, alleys, or
roadways of the city while wearing headphones which in any way interfere with
hearing of traffic noise, or warning devices or signals.
(Ord. 726-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 14-304 RIDING ON BICYCLES; SEATS; RIDERS LIMITED.
   (a)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (b)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Ord. 726-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 14-305 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy
vehicle shall attach the same, himself or herself to any vehicle upon a
roadway.
(Ord. 726-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 14-306 DRIVING THROUGH OR ON PRIVATE PROPERTY TO AVOID TRAFFIC CONTROL
DEVICES.
   No person shall drive through the property of a gasoline service station or
the service entrance of any public or private property adjacent to any street
intersection to avoid any official traffic control device or short cut from one
street to another.
(Ord. 726-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 14-307 USE OF WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES.
   (a)   Except as provided in divisions (b) and (c), no person shall operate a
motor vehicle on a public road or highway while using a wireless communications
device to write, send or read a written communication.
   (b)   The provisions of division (a) shall not apply to:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer or emergency service personnel acting
within the course and scope of the law enforcement officers or emergency
service personnel's employment;
      (2)   A motor vehicle stopped off the regular traveled portion of the
roadway;
      (3)   A person who reads, selects or enters a telephone number or name in
a wireless communications device for the purpose of making or receiving a phone
call;
      (4)   A person who receives an emergency, traffic or weather alert
message; or
      (5)   A person receiving a message related to the operation or navigation
of the motor vehicle.
   (c)   The provisions of division (a) shall not prohibit a person from using
a wireless communications device while operating a moving motor vehicle to:
      (1)   Report current or ongoing illegal activity to law enforcement;
      (2)   Prevent imminent injury to a person or property; or
      (3)   Relay information between transit or for-hire operator and the
operator's dispatcher, in which the device is permanently affixed to the motor
vehicle.
(Ord. 726-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
ARTICLE 4: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
   
14-401   Hazardous material defined
   
14-402   Same; exceptions
   
14-403   Transportation of hazardous materials
   
14-404   Hazardous materials routes
   
14-405   Parking of vehicles or trailers carrying hazardous materials
   
14-406   Removal of illegally parked trailers
§ 14-401 HAZARDOUS MATERIAL DEFINED.
   As used in this article, the term HAZARDOUS MATERIAL shall mean any material
or combination of materials that, because of its quantity, concentration or
physical, chemical, biological or infectious characteristics, poses a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health or safety or the
environment if released into the workplace or environment or when improperly
treated, stored, transported or disposed of or otherwise managed.
(Ord. 726-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 14-402 SAME; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to any container that shall
have a capacity of 150 gallons or less that shall be used for the purpose of
supplying fuel for the vehicle on which it is mounted. These provisions shall
also not apply to vehicles, trailers, containers or tanks containing anhydrous
ammonia or other material primarily used by farmers for fertilizer purposes
when such vehicles, trailers, containers or tanks are parked or housed upon
property designated for the placement of such vehicle, trailer, container or
tank by any farmers cooperative, elevator company or farm supply store located
within the city limits.
(Ord. 726-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 14-403 TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   Except as provided in §
14-404, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity
to transport any hazardous material upon any street, avenue, highway, road,
alley or any other public right-of-way in the city.
(Ord. 726-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 14-404 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ROUTES.
   The provisions of §
14-403 shall apply to all streets, avenues, highways, roadways, alleys or other
public rights-of-way within the city, except those specified within this
section where transportation of hazardous materials shall be allowed.
Transportation of hazardous materials shall be allowed upon the streets,
avenues, highways or roadways as determined by the city.
§ 14-405 PARKING OF VEHICLES OR TRAILERS CARRYING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (a)   Except as provided in divisions (b) and (c) below, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity to park any vehicle,
trailer or semi-trailer carrying any hazardous material within any city zoning
districts as defined in Chapter XVI of this code.
   (b)   Division (a) above shall not apply to vehicles, trailers or semi-
trailers parked for continuous periods of time not to exceed one hour where
such vehicles, trailers or semi-trailers are parked along those routes
specified in §
14-404 of this code.
   (c)   Division (a) above shall not apply to any vehicle, trailer or semi-
trailer carrying any hazardous material where such vehicle, trailer or semi-
trailer is not parked within 500 feet of any structure used for human
habitation.
(Ord. 726-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 14-406 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED TRAILERS.
   If any vehicle, trailer or a semi-trailer is found parked in violation of
the provisions of this article, the Fire Chief or Assistant Chief or any law
enforcement officer may require the owner, operator or lessee of the trailer to
move it within two hours. If such removal is not accomplished on the order of
any such officer, it may be accomplished by any such officer, by any reasonable
means, if the continued presence of the trailer or semi-trailer at its parked
location constitutes, adds to or prevents correction of a situation threatening
imminent injury or damage to persons or property.
(Ord. 726-2022, passed 4-5-2022)
CHAPTER XV: UTILITIES
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   WATER
      
3.   ELECTRICITY
      
4.   SEWERS
      
5.   SOLID WASTE
      
6.   WATER CONSERVATION
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
15-101   Definition
   
15-102   Delinquent accounts
   
15-103   Notice
   
15-104   Reserved
   
15-105   Connection fees
   
15-106   Delinquent accounts; refusal of service; termination of service; lien
against property
   
15-107   Landlord liability
§ 15-101 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UTILITY SERVICES. Includes water, sewer, solid waste (refuse) and other
utility services provided by the city.
§ 15-102 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, water, electric, sewer, solid waste (refuse) or
other utility service shall be terminated for nonpayment of service fees or
charges in accordance with §§
15-103 and
15-104.
§ 15-103 NOTICE.
   (a)   If a utility bill has not been paid on or before the due date as
provided in this chapter, a delinquency and termination notice shall be issued
by the City Clerk within five days after the delinquency occurs and hand
delivered to the customer at his or her last known address. A copy also shall
be mailed to the occupant of the premises if the occupant and the customer are
not the same person.
   (b)   The notice shall state:
      (1)   The amount due, plus delinquency charge; and
      (2)   Notice that service will be terminated if the amount due is not
paid within ten days from the date of the notice, unless the date on the notice
to pay the charges due shall be on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, in
which event such notice will give the consumer until the close of the next
business day in which to pay the charges.
§ 15-104 RESERVED.
§ 15-105 CONNECTION FEES.
   There shall be nonrefundable connection fee of $100 for residential
properties and $200 for commercial properties.
§ 15-106 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; REFUSAL OF SERVICE; TERMINATION OF SERVICE; LIEN
AGAINST PROPERTY.
   (a)   In the event that any person, except the United States or the state,
shall fail to pay the fees or charges for such utility services(s), utility
service shall be terminated as provided in §§
15-102 to
15-104. The governing body may refuse the delivery of utility service(s), as
permitted by law, until such time as the fees and charges are paid in full.
   (b)   In the event that any person, except the United States or the state,
residing, occupying, using or operating on property to which utility service(s)
furnished by the city is not paid, the unpaid fees or charges shall constitute
a lien upon the property to which the utilities are furnished. The amount of
the unpaid fees or charges shall be certified by the governing body to the
County Clerk of the county in which the property is located, to be placed upon
the tax roll for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in the
same manner as other taxes are collected by law.
   (c)   The lien, described in division (b) above, shall not attach to
property for unpaid utility fees or charges when the utility service(s) have
been contracted for by a tenant and not by the landlord or owner of the
property to which the utility service is provided.
   (d)   If at the time of application for utility service the applicant has an
outstanding balance or unpaid fees or charges for utility services provided by
the city, the application shall not be accepted until all fees or charges are
paid in full.
§ 15-107 LANDLORD LIABILITY.
   (a)   Owners of premises served by utility service under this article shall
be liable for payment of the costs of any utility service account delinquency
arising from service provides to such premises, regardless of whether the
utility service was furnished upon the application and request of the owner or
lessee of the premises. This provision shall also apply when the premises are
leased by or through an agent or other representative of the owner.
   (b)   In the event that a delinquency arises involving leased premises, in
addition to the tenant, the owner or owner’s agent shall be notified in writing
of the delinquency of the lessee by first-class regular mail within ten days
after the billing to the lessee becomes delinquent. Notice shall be sufficient
if mailed to the last known address of the owner or owner’s agent known to city
personnel responsible for said mailing, after reasonable inquiry.
   (c)   If utility service is furnished to a leased premises on the
application or request of the lessor of the premises, then all billings for
utilities furnished to such leased premises shall be made directly to the
lessor, and the lessor shall be fully liable for the cost of service furnished.
   (d)   The city may collect the amount of the unpaid bill for utility
services by any lawful means; provided, however, that in no event may the city
place a lien, as provided in §
15-106(b), on real estate of the lessor.
ARTICLE 2: WATER
Section
   
15-201   Certified Water Operator
   
15-202   Regulations
   
15-203   Service not guaranteed
   
15-204   Service connections required
   
15-205   Application for service
   
15-206   City to make connections
   
15-207   Connection fees
   
15-208   Curb cocks
   
15-209   Check valves
   
15-210   Unauthorized service
   
15-211   Meters
   
15-212   Same; testing
   
15-213   Tampering with meter
   
15-214   Leaks prohibited; penalty
   
15-215   Disconnection, reconnection charge
   
15-216   Reserved
   
15-217   Interrupt service
   
15-218   Prohibited acts
   
15-219   Wasting water
   
15-220   Right of access
   
15-221   Rates
   
15-222   Payment of bills
   
15-223   Delinquent accounts; notice; hearing; finding; liability
   
15-224   Use during fire
   
15-225   Cross-connections prohibited
   
15-226   Same; protective backflow devices required
   
15-227   Same; inspection
   
15-228   Same; protection from contaminants
§ 15-201 CERTIFIED WATER OPERATOR.
   The general management, care, control and supervision of the city water
system shall be in the Certified Water Operator, who shall be hired by the
Mayor with the consent of the governing body.
§ 15-202 REGULATIONS.
   The furnishing of water to customers by the city through its waterworks
system shall be governed by the regulations set out in this article.
§ 15-203 SERVICE NOT GUARANTEED.
   The city does not guarantee the delivery of water through any of its mains
and connecting services at any time except only when its mains, pumping
machinery and power service connection are in good working order, and the
supply of water is sufficient for the usual demand of its consumers.
§ 15-204 SERVICE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this article, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Linwood, Kansas.
      WATER USER. The owner, tenant or other person residing in or using any
building or structure requiring water service within the city for residential
or business purposes.
   (b)   Connection to city water supply. All water users within the limits of
the city shall make water service connection with the city water supply, and
shall use the city water supply as their source for domestic and business water
usage.
   (c)   Private wells. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent
any person from maintaining a private well on his or her premises for purposes
of watering animals or livestock, lawns or gardens.
   (d)   Private wells; contamination. In order to prevent contamination of the
city water supply, no person maintaining a private well on his or her premises
shall in any way connect the private well water supply to the city water
supply.
   (e)   Water connection is required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person that moves into the city that
uses water without signing up for service and will be charged a penalty of $50
and per diem penalty of $10 per day until such service is obtained.
      (2)   These fines will be paid before the water is connected.
   (f)   Application required. Before any connection is made to the city’s
water system, an application must be made in writing to the City Clerk by the
owner of the premises, or his or her authorized representative, for a permit to
make such connection.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-1-1983; Ord. 545-A-2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 15-205 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (a)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring a connection with the
municipal water system shall apply in writing to the City Clerk, on a form
furnished by the city for that purpose, for a permit to make the connection.
   (b)   The application shall:
      (1)   Contain an exact description including street address of the
property to be served;
      (2)   State the size of tap required;
      (3)   State the size and kind of service pipe to be used;
      (4)   State the full name of the owner of the premises to be served;
      (5)   State the purpose in which the water is to be used;
      (6)   State any other pertinent information required by the City Clerk;
and
      (7)   Be signed by the owner or occupant of the premises to be served, or
his or her authorized agent.
   (c)   Each application for a connection permit shall be accompanied by
payment of fees and/or costs specified in § 15-207.
§ 15-206 CITY TO MAKE CONNECTIONS.
   All taps shall be given, street excavations made, corporation cocks
inserted, pipes installed from main to curb, and the curb cock installed in a
meter box to which the service pipe is to be connected only by city employees.
§ 15-207 CONNECTION FEES.
   All persons desiring water tap connections from the city are required to pay
a connection fee of $3,500. A sewer connection fee is $45.
(Ord. 638-08A, passed 7-1-2008)
§ 15-208 CURB COCKS.
   There shall be a curb cock in every service line attached to the city main,
the same to be placed within the meter box. Curb cocks shall be supplied with
strong and suitable “T” handles.
§ 15-209 CHECK VALVES.
   Check valves are required on all connections to steam boilers or on any
other connection deemed necessary by the Certified Water Operator. Safety and
relief valves shall be placed on all boilers or other steam apparatus connected
with the water system where the steam pressure may be raised in excess of 40
pounds per square inch.
§ 15-210 UNAUTHORIZED SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, other than duly
authorized city officials or employees, to turn water on or off at the water
meter or curb cock shut off, with a key or in any other manner, without first
obtaining written permission from the Mayor or the governing body.
§ 15-211 METERS.
   (a)   All water furnished to customers shall be metered.
   (b)   Meters shall be located between the sidewalk or property line and
curbing when the main is in the street and on private property within three
feet of the alley line when the main is in the alley. In the business district,
the meters may be installed in the basement at a location specified by the
city.
   (c)   The city’s responsibility stops at the property line.
§ 15-212 SAME; TESTING.
   Meters shall be tested before being set and at any other time thereafter
when they appear to be measuring incorrectly. If a test is requested by the
customer and the meter is found to be accurate within 2%, the meter will be
deemed correct and a charge of $10 will be made to the customer.
§ 15-213 TAMPERING WITH METER.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to break the seal of any meter, to
alter the register or mechanism of any meter, or to make any outlet or
connection in any manner so that water supplied by the city may be used or
wasted without being metered.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person except an authorized employee of
the Water Department to turn any curb cock on or off.
§ 15-214 LEAKS PROHIBITED; PENALTY.
   No allowances shall be made for water used or lost through leaks,
carelessness and neglect or otherwise after the same has passed through the
meter, however, every customer shall have the right to appeal to the city a
water bill or meter reading that he or she considers excessive.
§ 15-215 DISCONNECTION, RECONNECTION CHARGE.
   (a)   Services for water, refuse and sewer shall be promptly discontinued
and meters disconnected to any consumer for non-payment of said utility bill by
the fifteenth day of each month.
   (b)   Any service or utility disconnected or discontinued for non-payment on
the fifteenth of any month shall be reconnected only upon the payment of the
sum of $50 and the past due water bill, during City Hall business hours.
   (c)   The City Clerk will accept payment arrangements of any utility or
service bill, and failure to pay any arrangement in full will result in the
termination of all services and utilities.
   (d)   If the residence or building is not vacated the sewer will be capped
off. If the sewer is capped off a reconnection fee of $200 is due to have the
sewer uncapped.
(Ord. 698, passed 7-21-2011)
§ 15-216 RESERVED.
§ 15-217 INTERRUPT SERVICE.
   The city reserves the right to interrupt water service for the purpose of
making repairs or extensions to water lines or equipment.
§ 15-218 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be a violation of this article for any unauthorized person to:
   (a)   Perform any work upon the pipes or appurtenances of the city’s
waterworks system beyond a private property line unless such person is employed
by the city;
   (b)   Make any connections with any extension of the supply pipes of any
consumer without written permission to do so having been first obtained from
the governing body; and
   (c)   Remove, handle or otherwise molest or disturb any meter, meter lid,
lock, cutoff or any other appurtenances to the water system of the city.
§ 15-219 WASTING WATER.
   (a)   (1)   Water users shall prevent unnecessary waste of water and shall
keep sprinklers, hydrants, faucets and all apparatus, including the service
line leading from the property to the meter, in good condition at their
expense.
      (2)   Wasting water may include but is not limited to:
         (A)   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch or other surface
drain;
         (B)   Failing to repair an irrigation system’s malfunction; or
         (C)   Failing to repair a controllable water leak due to defective
plumbing.
   (b)   It shall be a violation of this article and unlawful for any owner,
occupant or manager of real property served by the city water utility to waste
water or to permit the willful waste of water to occur.
   (c)   In the event of a violation of this section, the Certified Water
Operator, or such other person as may be designated by the city, shall give
written notice of the violation and opportunity for hearing in accordance with
§
15-608.
   (d)   The penalties for violating this section shall be the same as those
set forth in §
15-608.
§ 15-220 RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   Authorized employees of the city may enter upon any premises at reasonable
hours for the purpose of reading the meter or servicing or inspecting meters or
water lines.
§ 15-221 RATES.
   The rates per month for the use of water in the city shall be as set as
follows.
   (a)   Rates to all persons purchasing water through a meter on a monthly
basis shall be as follows:
 
From 0 gallons to 1,000 gallons $20 per month minimum
From 1,001 gallons and over     $9.86 per thousand gallons
 
   (b)   Rates to all persons purchasing sewer on a monthly basis shall be as
follows:
 
From 0 gallons to 1,000 gallons $20.00 per month minimum
From 1,001 gallons and over     $9.86 per thousand gallons
 
   (c)   School District No. 458 at the Linwood Attendance Center shall pay $20
per month minimum for zero to 1,000 gallons of water used, plus $9.86 for each
additional 1,000 gallons used; sewer $187 per month for the first 1,000 gallons
of water used, plus $5.42 for each additional 1,000 gallons of water used for
sewer.
   (d)   Churches are exempt from any sewer and water charges unless the
minimum of 1,000 gallons of water is used. When usage exceeds 1,000 gallons, a
base rate of $20 for water will apply and a base rate of $37.04 for sewer will
apply to the first 1,000 gallons plus $9.86 per each additional 1,000 gallons
for water; and $5.42 per each additional 1,000 gallons for sewer.
(Ord. 698, passed 7-21-2011; Ord. 716-2017, passed 10-3-2017)
§ 15-222 PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   All utility and service bills shall be paid on or before the tenth day of
the month following the service. For any billing not paid when due a late
charge of 10% will be added to the bill.
(Ord. 698, passed 7-21-2011)
§ 15-223 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; NOTICE; HEARING; FINDING; LIABILITY.
   Water service shall be terminated for nonpayment of service fees or charges
as provided in §§
15-102 through
15-104.
§ 15-224 USE DURING FIRE.
   No person owning or occupying premises connected to the municipal water
system shall use or allow to be used during a fire any water from the water
system except for the purpose of extinguishing the fire. Upon the sounding of a
fire alarm, it shall be the duty of every such person to see that all water
services are tightly closed and that no water is used except in extraordinary
cases of emergency during the fire.
§ 15-225 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall establish or permit to be established, or maintain or permit
to be maintained, any cross-connection whereby a private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the city
may enter the supply and distributing system of the city unless specifically
approved by the State Department of Health and Environment and the governing
body.
§ 15-226 SAME; PROTECTIVE BACKFLOW DEVICES REQUIRED.
   Approved devices to protect against backflow or backsiphonage shall be
installed at all fixtures and equipment where backflow and/or backsiphonage may
occur and where there is a hazard to the potable water supply in that polluted
water or other contaminating materials may enter into the public water supply.
Any situation in which a heavy withdrawal of water, such as a sudden break in
the main or water being used from a fire hydrant, may cause a negative pressure
to develop that could lead to backsiphonage of polluted water into the system
shall be improper and must be protected by approved backflow preventive valves
and systems as determined by the Certified Water Operator.
§ 15-227 SAME; INSPECTION.
   The City Utility Superintendent or other designee of the governing body
shall have the right of entry into any building or premises in the city as
frequently as necessary in his or her judgment to ensure that plumbing has been
installed in accordance with the laws of the city so as to prevent the
possibility of pollution of the city’s water supply.
§ 15-228 SAME; PROTECTION FROM CONTAMINANTS.
   Under the city’s constitutional home rule authority and K.S.A. 65-163a, the
city, by its Utility Superintendent, may refuse to deliver water through pipes
and mains to any premises where a condition exists that might lead to the
contamination of the public water supply system and it may continue to refuse
the delivery of water to the premises until that condition is remedied. In
addition, the City Utility Superintendent may terminate water service to any
property where the cross-connections or backsiphonage condition creates, in the
judgment of the Superintendent, an emergency danger of contamination to the
public water supply.
ARTICLE 3: ELECTRICITY
   [Reserved]
ARTICLE 4: SEWERS
Section
   
15-401   Definitions
   
15-402   Sewer connection required
   
15-403   Permit; connection fee
   
15-404   Application
   
15-405   Costs
   
15-406   Sewer connection
   
15-407   Sewer for each building
   
15-408(1)   Same; specifications
   
15-408(2)   Same; specifications; size and slope of building sewer
   
15-408(3)   Same; specifications; elevation
   
15-408(4)   Same; specifications; lift
   
15-408(5)   Same; specifications; cesspool, septic tank or vault
   
15-408(6)   Same; specifications; excavations
   
15-408(7)   Same; specifications; joints
   
15-409   Sewer excavations: damages
   
15-410   Failure to connect
   
15-411   Privy unlawful
   
15-412   Private sewer system
   
15-413   Same; permit
   
15-414   Same; inspection
   
15-415   Same; discharge
   
15-416   Same; additional requirements
   
15-417   Disposal of sewage
   
15-418   Damage to sewers
   
15-419   Natural outlet
   
15-420   Standards
   
15-421   Old building sewers
   
15-422   Mud, grease traps
   
15-423   Roof, foundation drains
   
15-424   Same; exception
   
15-425   Prohibited discharges
   
15-426   Bills
   
15-427   Delinquent accounts; lien against property; other remedies
   
15-428   Sewer service charge
   
15-429   Sanitary Sewer District No. 1
§ 15-401 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   B.O.D. (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system that receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the innerface of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWERS. Sewers receiving both surface runoff and sewage are not
permitted.
   INDIVIDUAL DOMESTIC. Any single-family residence, commercial business,
office, institution, school, church or public entity having an individual
direct or indirect connection to the wastewater facilities of the city and on
individual city or private water service meter, or connection to any such water
service.
   INDUSTRIAL. Any industrial business engaged in the manufacturing or
processing of one or more products, and in which wastewaters are produced from
such manufacturing or processing and said wastewaters are discharged directly
or indirectly to the wastewater facilities of the city.
   MULTI-DOMESTIC. Any multi-family residence, apartment or mobile home and any
commercial business, office, institution, school, church or public entity
having a direct or indirect connection to the wastewater facilities of the city
and not having an individual water service meter but is served with city or
private metered water by the owner of the property on which it is located.
   NORMAL WASTEWATER. The strength of normal wastewater shall be considered
within the following ranges:
      (1)   A five day biochemical oxygen demand of 300 milligrams per liter or
less;
      (2)   A suspended solid concentration of 350 milligrams or less; and
      (3)   Hydrogen ion concentration of 5.0 to 9.0.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer that carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the city or his or her authorized
deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   USER. Any person as defined in § 1-102, including an institution,
governmental agency or political subdivision producing wastewater requiring
processing and treatment to remove pollutants and having premises connected to
the wastewater facilities.
   WASTEWATER. Sewage, the combination of liquids and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial and industrial buildings, institutions, governmental
agencies, together with any ground, surface or stormwater that may be present.
§ 15-402 SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purpose, situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby required
at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to
connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this article, within 90 days after date of official
notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within 140 feet of the
property line.
§ 15-403 PERMIT; CONNECTION FEE.
   (a)   No person shall uncover, make any connections with, or opening into,
use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (b)   There shall be charged a fee of $4,500 for the tap payable at the time
of making application for the permit.
§ 15-404 APPLICATION.
   (a)   Any person desiring to make a connection to the city sewer system
shall apply in writing to the City Clerk who shall forward the application to
the Utility Superintendent.
   (b)   The application shall contain:
      (1)   The legal description of the property to be connected;
      (2)   The name and address of the owner or owners of the property;
      (3)   The kind of property to be connected (residential, commercial or
industrial); and
      (4)   The point of proposed connection to the city sewer line.
§ 15-405 COSTS.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be paid by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
§ 15-406 SEWER CONNECTION.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at
the “Y” branch if such branch is available at a suitable location. Where no
properly located “Y” branch is available, the connection shall be made in the
manner approved by the Utility Superintendent and at a location designated by
the Superintendent.
§ 15-407 SEWER FOR EACH BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be feasiblely constructed to the
rear building. In such case, the building sewer from the front building may be
extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
§ 15-408(1) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS.
   The building sewer shall be constructed of cast iron pipe, ASTM
specifications A74-42, or approved equal; vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM
specifications C13-44T, or approved equal; or an approved plastic pipe. Any
plastic pipe to be installed on any building sewer shall not be approved by the
city until the owner has furnished descriptive literature and typical sample
section of the plastic pipe proposed for installation, to the city for
inspection and review. All joints on all pipe installed shall be tight and
water- proof. Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet of
a water service pipe or city water main shall be constructed of approved cast
iron soil pipe with approved joints. No building sewer shall be installed
within three feet of existing gas lines. If installed in filled or unstable
ground, the building sewer shall be constructed of cast iron soil pipe, except
that non-metallic material may be accepted if laid on a suitable concrete bed
or cradle as approved by the city.
§ 15-408(2) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; SIZE AND SLOPE OF BUILDING SEWER.
   The size and slope of the building sewer to be installed shall be subject to
the approval of the City Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter of the
pipe be less than four inches. The slope at which a six inch pipe is to be laid
shall be not less than one-eighth inch per foot and for four inch pipe, not
less than one-fourth inch per foot. Any grades for the pipe, which are proposed
for installation at grades less than these specified, shall be approved by the
City Inspector prior to placement.
§ 15-408(3) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to
or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be weakened. The
depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The building sewer
shall be laid at a uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible.
Changes in direction shall be made only with approved curved pipe and fittings,
including cleanout fittings.
§ 15-408(4) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; LIFT.
   At buildings in which the building drain is too low to permit gravity flow
to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall be lifted by
approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer. The use of any
pumping equipment for which cross-connections with a public water supply system
are needed, is prohibited. The total costs of pumping equipment and pumping
equipment operational costs shall be those of the owner.
§ 15-408(5) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; CESSPOOL, SEPTIC TANK OR VAULT.
   No building sewer shall be laid across a cesspool, septic tank or vault
until the cesspool, septic tank or vault has been well cleaned and filled with
an approved earth or sand fill, then thoroughly tamped and water settled. Cast
iron pipe may be used across cesspools or septic tanks, if proper bedding and
support for the sewer pipe is acquired.
§ 15-408(6) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavation required for the installation of the building sewer shall be
open trench work unless otherwise approved by the city. Pipe laying and
backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specifications C12-19,
except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected and
approved.
§ 15-408(7) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; JOINTS.
   (a)   All joints in the building sewers shall be made water-tight. If
recommended by the City Inspector, a water pressure test shall be made on the
completed sewer to ensure a compliance with this requirement, requiring that
the building sewer withstand an internal water pressure of five psi, without
leakage.
   (b)   Cast iron pipe with lead joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or
hemp and filled with molten lead, federal specifications QQ-L-156, not less
than one inch deep. Lead shall be run in one pour and caulked and packed tight.
No paint, varnish or other coatings shall be permitted on the jointing material
until after the joint has been tested and approved.
   (c)   All joints in vitrified clay pipe shall be the polyurethane-
compression type joints, approved by the City Inspector.
   (d)   Joints for all plastic pipe used in building sewers shall be the slip
type joints or solvent weld type, approved by the city.
   (e)   Joints between any two different types of pipes shall be made with
lead, asphaltic jointing materials or concrete, as approved by the city. All
joints shall be water-tight and constructed to ensure minimum root penetration
and to the satisfaction of the city.
§ 15-409 SEWER EXCAVATIONS: DAMAGES.
   All excavations for buildings sewers shall be adequately guarded with
barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, curb
and gutters, sidewalks, parkways and other public property removed or damaged
during the installation of the building sewer shall be repaired or replaced in
a manner acceptable to the city and at the total expense of the owner. It is
further agreed that any parties involved in any excavating or installation work
for sewer installations as above set out, will hold the city harmless from any
and all damages to persons or property resulting from or growing out of any
opening or excavation or any negligent act or from any operation made within
the city.
§ 15-410 FAILURE TO CONNECT.
   (a)   If any person as defined in §
1-102 shall fail to connect any dwelling or building with the sewer system
after being noticed, the city may cause such buildings to be connected with the
sewer system as authorized by K.S.A. 12-631.
   (b)   The cost and expense, including inspection fees, shall be assessed
against the property. Until such assessments shall have been collected and paid
to the city, the cost of making such connection may be paid from the General
Fund or through the issuance of no fund warrants.
§ 15-411 PRIVY UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage
except as provided in this article.
§ 15-412 PRIVATE SEWER SYSTEM.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of §
15-402, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of §§
15-411 to
15-416.
§ 15-413 SAME; PERMIT.
   Before commencing construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Utility Superintendent.
The application shall be accompanied by any plans, specifications or other
information deemed necessary by the Utility Superintendent. A permit and
inspection fee, as set by the governing body, shall be paid to the city at the
time the application is filed.
§ 15-414 SAME; INSPECTION.
   The Utility Superintendent or his or her authorized representative shall be
allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and the applicant
shall notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection or
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 48 hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
§ 15-415 SAME; DISCHARGE.
   (a)   The type, capacities, location and layout of the private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations and requirements of the
Water Pollution Control Section of the State Department of Health and
Environment. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than one acre. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any public sewer or natural outlet.
   (b)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
15-402, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this article, and any septic tank, cesspool and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable and acceptable
materials.
§ 15-416 SAME; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this article shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the County Health Officer.
§ 15-417 DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or discharge from any source
whatsoever any sewage or human excrement upon any public or private grounds
within the city, or to permit the contents of any privy, vault or septic tank
to be deposited or discharged upon the surface of any grounds. Any unauthorized
or unapproved privy vault, septic tank or other means or places for the
disposal of sewage, excrement and polluted water may be abated as a public
nuisance upon the order of the County Board of Health in accordance with the
laws of the state.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e, 12-1617g)
§ 15-418 DAMAGE TO SEWERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to maliciously, willfully
or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any
sewer, structure, appurtenance or equipment which is part of the municipal
sewer system.
§ 15-419 NATURAL OUTLET.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any sanitary sewage, industrial
wastes or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with the provisions of this article.
§ 15-420 STANDARDS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials, excavation, placing of pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city.
§ 15-421 OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Utility Superintendent, to meet
all requirements of this article.
§ 15-422 MUD, GREASE TRAPS.
   All garages, filling stations, milk plants or other commercial or industrial
plants connected to the public sewer shall construct and maintain proper and
sufficient interceptors or traps to prevent the discharge of any sand, mud,
sediment, litter, waste or any substance harmful to the effective operation and
maintenance of the city sewer system, into the building sewer.
§ 15-423 ROOF, FOUNDATION DRAINS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to connect downspouts from any roof area, drains
from any building foundation, paved areas, yards or open courts, or to
discharge liquid wastes from any air conditioning unit or cooling device having
a capacity in excess of one ton per hour or one horsepower into any city
sanitary sewer.
   (b)   All discharges prohibited in division (a) above may be discharged into
the public gutter or storm drains or open drainage ditches provided such
discharge does not create a nuisance. No such liquids may be discharged into
any unpaved street or alley.
§ 15-424 SAME; EXCEPTION.
   Discharges from air conditioning units in excess of one ton per hour or one
horsepower may be permitted into a building sewer upon approval of the Utility
Superintendent where there is a finding that such cooling water cannot be
recirculated and that such waste water does not overload the capacity of the
sewer or interfere with the effective operation of the sewage disposal works of
the city.
§ 15-425 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge any of the following waters or wastes to any
public sewer:
   (a)   Liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
   (b)   Water or waste that may contain more than 100 parts per million, by
weight, of fat, oil or grease;
   (c)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or explosive
liquid, solid or gas;
   (d)   Garbage that has not been properly shredded;
   (e)   Ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
   (f)   Waters or wastes having a ph lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
   (g)   Waters or wastes containing a toxic poisonous substance in sufficient
quantity to injury or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving waters of
the sewage treatment plant;
   (h)   Water or wastes containing suspended solids of such character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such materials
at the sewage treatment plant; and
   (i)   Noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a public
nuisance.
§ 15-426 BILLS.
   (a)   Bills shall be rendered monthly as provided in §
15-222 and shall be collected as a combined utility bill.
   (b)   Any person at the time of beginning or terminating service who
receives service for a period of less than 17 consecutive days shall be billed
at no less than one-half of the regular minimum monthly rate. For service of 17
consecutive days or more the charge shall be not less than full regular minimum
monthly rate.
§ 15-427 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY; OTHER REMEDIES.
   (a)   In the event any person, except the United States and the state, shall
fail to pay the user charges when due, water service shall be terminated as
provided in §§
15-102 to
15-104.
   (b)   All other remedies regarding delinquent accounts, and exceptions
thereto, contained in §
15-106 shall apply to sewer service fees, charges and services.
§ 15-428 SEWER SERVICE CHARGE.
   The monthly charge for sewer service shall be as set by the governing body.
§ 15-429 SANITARY SEWER DISTRICT NO. 1.
   (a)   It is deemed necessary for the health and welfare of the citizens of
the city, and especially of those residents of the District hereinafter created
and described, that main and lateral sewers be made and installed, in
accordance with the plans and specifications made by Shockley-McClanahan
Engineering Company, Engineer, Raytown 33, Missouri, said plans and
specifications to be approved and adopted by the governing body.
   (b)   The Sanitary Sewer District No. 1 be and the same is hereby created
and constituted as follows:
      (1)   All of Block 1;
      (2)   All of Block 2;
      (3)   West 150 feet of Block 3;
      (4)   All of Block 4;
      (5)   All of Block 5;
      (6)   All of Block 6;
      (7)   All of Block 7, except of Lot 3;
      (8)   Lots 1 and 6 of Block 8;
      (9)   Lot 6 of Block 9;
      (10)   Lots 5, 6 and 7 of Block 19;
      (11)   Original Town of Linwood, Leavenworth County, Kansas;
      (12)   All of Highland Addition to the City of Linwood, Leavenworth
County, Kansas;
      (13)   All of Harley Addition to the City of Linwood, Leavenworth County,
Kansas;
      (14)   All of Block 1;
      (15)   Block 2, Lots 1 through 14, inclusive;
      (16)   Lots 23 through 30, inclusive; and
      (17)   Bowens First Addition to the City of Linwood, Leavenworth County,
Kansas.
   (c)   The main and lateral sewers in said District shall be located within
said District as shown by the plans and specifications prepared by Shockley-
McClanahan Engineering Company, Engineer.
   (d)   The cost and expense of said main and lateral sewers within the said
Sanitary Sewer District No. 1 shall be apportioned to all the lots and parcels
of ground in said Sewer District as hereinafter described, in accordance with
the statutes in such case made and provided, and the amount so apportioned
shall be levied and assessed against said lots and parcels of ground in said
District, and shall be collected according to law, in the same manner as other
taxes are levied and assessed.
   (e)   The amounts apportioned and assessed against the lots and parcels of
ground in said District shall be paid in 20 annual installments, with interest,
one installment of which, shall be certified each year by the City Clerk to the
County Clerk, to be placed on the tax rolls for collection, the same as other
taxes.
   (f)   To provide the necessary funds to pay for said improvements, the city
shall issue internal improvement bonds, as provided by law.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-5-1963)
ARTICLE 5: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
15-501   Definitions
   
15-502   Collection
   
15-503   Contracts
   
15-504   Duty of owner, occupant
   
15-505   Containers
   
15-506   Bulk containers
   
15-507   Enter private premises
   
15-508   Ownership of solid waste
   
15-509   Wrapping garbage
   
15-510   Heavy, bulky waste
   
15-511   Hazardous materials
   
15-512   Prohibited practices
   
15-513   Objectionable waste
   
15-514   Unauthorized disposal
   
15-515   Private collectors; license required
   
15-516   Same; application
   
15-517   Same; fee
   
15-518   Same; number to be displayed
   
15-519   Closed vehicle
   
15-520   Rules and regulations
   
15-521   Failure to secure license
   
15-522   Charges
   
15-523   Same; fee schedule
   
15-524   Billing
   
15-525   Same; delinquent account
§ 15-501 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL WASTE. All refuse emanating from establishments engaged in
business including, but not limited to, stores, markets, office buildings,
restaurants, shopping centers, theaters, hospitals, governments and nursing
homes.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any enclosure, building, or portion thereof occupied by one
or more persons for and as living quarters.
   GARBAGE. Waste resulting from the handling, processing, storage, packaging,
preparation, sale, cooking and serving of meat, produce and other foods and
shall include unclean containers.
   MULTI-FAMILY UNIT. Any structure containing more than four individual
dwelling units.
   REFUSE. All garbage and/or rubbish or trash.
   RESIDENTIAL. Any structure containing four or fewer individual dwelling
units, rooming houses having no more than four persons in addition to the
family of the owner or operator, and mobile homes.
   RUBBISH or TRASH. All nonputrescible materials such as paper, tin cans,
bottles, glass, crockery, rags, ashes, lawn and tree trimmings, stumps, boxes,
wood, street sweepings and mineral refuse. RUBBISH or TRASH shall not include
earth and waste from building operations or wastes from industrial processes or
manufacturing operations.
   SINGLE-DWELLING UNIT. An enclosure, building, or portion thereof occupied by
one family as living quarters.
   SOLID WASTE. All non-liquid garbage, rubbish or trash.
§ 15-502 COLLECTION.
   All solid waste accumulated within the city shall be collected, conveyed and
disposed of by the city or by contractors specifically authorized to collect
and dispose of solid waste.
§ 15-503 CONTRACTS.
   The city shall have the right to enter into a contract with any responsible
person for collection and disposal of solid waste.
§ 15-504 DUTY OF OWNER, OCCUPANT.
   The owner or occupant of every dwelling unit or commercial enterprise shall
provide at his or her own expense a suitable container for the storage of solid
waste as provided in this article. No owner or occupant shall permit to
accumulate quantities of refuse or other waste materials within or close to any
structure within the city unless the same is stored in approved containers and
in such a manner as not to create a health or fire hazard.
§ 15-505 CONTAINERS.
   Residential containers shall have a capacity of not more than 30 gallons.
They shall be of galvanized metal or other non-rusting material of substantial
construction. Each container shall have a tight-fitting lid and shall be leak-
proof and fly-tight. All containers shall have handles of suitable construction
to permit lifting. Plastic bags manufactured for garbage and refuse disposal
may be substituted for residential containers. Plastic bags, when used, shall
be securely closed. All garbage shall be drained of all liquids before being
placed in bags or containers.
§ 15-506 BULK CONTAINERS.
   On premises where excessive amounts of refuse accumulate or where cans or
bags are impractical, bulk containers for the storage of refuse may be used.
Containers shall have a capacity and shall be equipped with appurtenances for
attaching mechanical lifting devices that are compatible with the collection
equipment being used. Containers shall be constructed of durable rust- and
corrosion-resistant material that is easy to clean. All containers shall be
equipped with tight-fitting lids or doors to prevent entrance of insects or
rodents. Doors and lids shall be constructed and maintained so they can be
easily opened. Containers shall be water-tight, leak-proof and weather-proof
construction.
§ 15-507 ENTER PRIVATE PREMISES.
   Solid waste collectors, employed by the city or operating under contract
with the city, are hereby authorized to enter in and upon private property for
the purpose of collecting solid waste therefrom as required by this article.
§ 15-508 OWNERSHIP OF SOLID WASTE.
   Ownership of solid waste when placed in containers by the occupants or
owners of premises upon which refuse accumulates, shall be vested in the city
and thereafter shall be subject to the exclusive control of the city, its
employees or contractors. No person shall meddle with refuse containers or in
anyway pilfer or scatter contents thereof in any alley or street within the
city.
§ 15-509 WRAPPING GARBAGE.
   All garbage shall be drained of all excess liquid and wrapped in paper or
other disposable container before being placed in solid waste containers.
§ 15-510 HEAVY, BULKY WASTE.
   Heavy accumulations such as brush, tree limbs, broken concrete, sand or
gravel, automobile frames, dead trees and other bulky, heavy materials shall be
disposed of at the expense of the owner or person controlling same.
§ 15-511 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (a)   No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer
for collection any hazardous garbage, refuse or waste.
   (b)   Hazardous material shall include:
      (1)   Explosive materials;
      (2)   Rags or other waste soaked in volatile and flammable materials;
      (3)   Chemicals;
      (4)   Poisons;
      (5)   Radio-active materials;
      (6)   Highly combustible materials;
      (7)   Soiled dressings, clothing, bedding and/or other wastes,
contaminated by infection or contagious disease; and
      (8)   Any other materials that may present a special hazard to collection
or disposal personnel, equipment, or to the public.
§ 15-512 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (a)   Deposit solid waste in any container other than that owned or leased
by him or her or under his or her control without written consent of the owner
and/or with the intent of avoiding payment of the refuse service charge;
   (b)   Interfere in any manner with employees of the city or its contractors
in the collection of solid waste;
   (c)   Burn solid waste except in an approved incinerator and unless a
variance has been granted and a written permit obtained from the city or the
appropriate air pollution control agency; and
   (d)   Bury refuse at any place within the city except that lawn and garden
trimmings may be composted.
§ 15-513 OBJECTIONABLE WASTE.
   Manure from cow lots, stables, poultry yards, pigeon lofts and other animal
or fowl pens, and waste oils from garages or filling stations shall be removed
and disposed of at the expense of the person controlling the same and in a
manner consistent with this article.
§ 15-514 UNAUTHORIZED DISPOSAL.
   No person shall haul or cause to be hauled any garbage, refuse or other
waste material of any kind to any place, site or area within or without the
limits of the city unless such site is a sanitary landfill, transfer point or
disposal facility approved by the State Department of Health and Environment.
§ 15-515 PRIVATE COLLECTORS; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an employee of the city
specifically authorized for that purpose, to collect or transport any solid
waste within the city, without securing a license from the city.
   (b)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent a person from hauling or
disposing of his or her own solid waste providing it is done in such a manner
as not to endanger the public health or safety or not to become an annoyance to
the inhabitants of the city, and not to litter the streets and alleys of the
city.
§ 15-516 SAME; APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to collect or transport solid waste within the city
shall make application for a license to the City Clerk. The application shall
set forth the name and address of the applicant, the make, and type of vehicle
to be operated for collecting and transporting solid waste. The application
shall be accompanied by a certificate of inspection and approval of said
vehicle by the County Health Officer issued not more than 15 days prior to the
date of application.
§ 15-517 SAME; FEE.
   No license shall be issued unless the applicant shall pay to the City Clerk
the sum, as set by the governing body, per annum for each vehicle used in the
collection and transportation of solid waste. The permit shall be effective
only for the calendar year and shall expire on December 1 of the calendar year
in which said permit is issued.
§ 15-518 SAME; NUMBER TO BE DISPLAYED.
   The City Clerk shall issue a license receipt together with a number, which
shall be painted on each vehicle. Said number shall be conspicuously placed
upon the vehicle in a place and position to be clearly visible and in a
condition to be clearly legible. The number shall be used only on the vehicle
for which it is issued.
§ 15-519 CLOSED VEHICLE.
   Any vehicle used by any person for the collection and transportation of
solid waste shall be maintained in a good mechanical condition. The vehicle
shall be equipped with an enclosed covered body to prevent the contents leaking
or escaping therefrom. Only tree trimmings or brush may be transported in open-
bodied vehicles provided the material is securely tied in place to prevent
scattering along the streets and alleys.
§ 15-520 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The collection and transportation of trash and waste materials shall be at
all times under the general supervision of the Mayor or his or her duly
authorized agent, who shall have the authority by and with the consent of the
governing body to make additional rules and regulations not inconsistent with
the terms and provisions of this article requiring that the collection and
transportation of trash and waste materials shall be conducted in such manner
as not to endanger the public health, or to become an annoyance to the
inhabitants of the city, and providing for a proper fee to be charged to the
customer.
§ 15-521 FAILURE TO SECURE LICENSE.
   Any person who shall conduct or operate within the city limits any vehicle
for the purpose of collecting and transporting solid waste without first
obtaining a license as required by this article or who shall violate the terms
and provisions of this article shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this
code and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in § 1-116.
§ 15-522 CHARGES.
   The city shall establish and collect a service charge to defray the cost and
maintenance of the collection and disposition of solid waste within the city.
§ 15-523 SAME; FEE SCHEDULE.
   The fees for refuse collection within the city shall be as set by the fee
schedule.
(Ord. 699, passed 7-21-2011)
§ 15-524 BILLING.
   Solid waste charges shall be billed monthly and shall be included on water
or utility bills. No payment shall be accepted on utility bills except for the
full amount billed for all services. Delinquent solid waste bills shall carry
the due dates, grace periods and penalties as water bills.
§ 15-525 SAME; DELINQUENT ACCOUNT.
   In the event the owner or occupant of any property shall fail to pay the
solid waste bills within 60 days following the date upon which it becomes due,
the City Clerk shall annually certify such unpaid bills to the County Clerk as
a lien upon the property. The lien shall be collected subject to the same
regulations and penalties as other property taxes are collected.
(K.S.A. 65-3410)
ARTICLE 6: WATER CONSERVATION
Section
   
15-601   Purpose
   
15-602   Definitions
   
15-603   Declaration of a water emergency
   
15-604   Voluntary conservation measures
   
15-605   Mandatory conservation measures
   
15-606   Emergency water rates
   
15-607   Regulations
   
15-608   Violations, disconnections and penalties
   
15-609   Emergency termination
§ 15-601 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to provide for the declaration of a water
supply emergency and the implementation of voluntary and mandatory water
conservation measures throughout the city in the event such an emergency is
declared.
§ 15-602 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLASSES OF WATER. The following classes of water uses are established:
      (1)   CLASS 1. Water used for outdoor watering, either public or private,
for gardens, lawns, trees, shrubs, plants, parks, golf courses, playing fields,
swimming pools or other recreational area; or the washing of motor vehicles,
boats, trailers or the exterior of any building or structure.
      (2)   CLASS 2. Water used for any commercial or industrial, including
agricultural, purposes; except water actually necessary to maintain the health
and personal hygiene of bona fide employees while such employees are engaged in
the performance of their duties at their place of employment.
      (3)   CLASS 3. Domestic usage, other than that which would be included in
either Classes 1 or 2.
      (4)   CLASS 4. Water necessary only to sustain human life and the lives
of domestic pets and maintain standards of hygiene and sanitation.
   CUSTOMER. The customer of record using water for any purpose from the city’s
water distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made or, in
the case of coin sales, a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
   WASTE OF WATER. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch or other surface
drain; or
      (2)   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water due to defective
plumbing.
   WATER. Water available to the city for treatment by virtue of its water
rights or any treated water introduced by the city into its water distribution
system, including water offered for sale at any coin- operated site.
§ 15-603 DECLARATION OF A WATER EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the governing body of the city finds that an emergency exists by
reason of a shortage of water supply needed for essential uses, it shall be
empowered to declare by resolution that a water supply emergency exists and
that it will encourage voluntary water conservation or impose mandatory
restrictions on water use during the period of the emergency. Such an emergency
shall be deemed to continue until it is declared by resolution of the governing
body to have ended. The resolutions declaring the existence and end of a water
supply emergency shall be effective upon their publication in the official city
newspaper.
§ 15-604 VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in §
15-603, the Mayor is authorized to call on all water consumers to employ
voluntary water conservation measures to limit or eliminate non-essential water
uses including, but not limited to, limitations on the following uses:
   (a)   Sprinkling of water on lawns, shrubs or trees (including golf
courses);
   (b)   Washing of automobiles;
   (c)   Use of water in swimming pools, fountains and evaporative air
conditioning systems; and
   (d)   Waste of water.
§ 15-605 MANDATORY CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in §
15-603, the Mayor is also authorized to implement certain mandatory water
conservation measures, including, but not limited to, the following:
   (a)   Suspension of new connections to the city’s water distribution system,
except connections of fire hydrants and those made pursuant to agreements
entered into by the city before the effective date of the declaration of the
emergency;
   (b)   Restrictions on the uses of water in one or more classes of water use,
wholly or in part;
   (c)   Restrictions on the sales of water at coin-operated facilities or
sites;
   (d)   The imposition of water rationing based on any reasonable formula
including, but not limited to, the percentage of normal use and per capita or
per consumer restrictions;
   (e)   Complete or partial bans on the waste of water; and
   (f)   Any combination of the foregoing measures.
§ 15-606 EMERGENCY WATER RATES.
   (a)   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in §
15-603, the governing body of the city shall have the power to adopt emergency
water rates by ordinance designed to conserve water supplies.
   (b)   Such emergency rates may provide for, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Higher charges for increasing usage per unit of the use (increasing
block rates);
      (2)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit
rate); or
      (3)   Extra charges in excess of a specified level of water use (excess
demand surcharge).
§ 15-607 REGULATIONS.
   During the effective period of any water supply emergency as provided for in
§
15-603, the Mayor is empowered to promulgate such regulations as may be
necessary to carry out the provisions of this article, any water supply
emergency resolution or emergency water rate ordinance. Such regulations shall
be subject to the approval of the governing body at its next regular or special
meeting.
§ 15-608 VIOLATIONS, DISCONNECTIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   If the Mayor, Water Superintendent or other city official or officials
charged with implementation and enforcement of this article or a water supply
emergency resolution or ordinance learn of any violation of any water use
restrictions imposed pursuant to §§
15-605 or
15-607, a written notice of the violation shall be affixed to the property
where the violation occurred and the customer of record and any other person
known to the city who is responsible for the violation or its correction shall
be provided with either actual or mailed notice. The notice shall describe the
violation and order that it be corrected, cured or abated immediately or within
such specified time as the city determines is reasonable under the
circumstances. If the order is not complied with, the city may terminate water
service to the customer subject to the following procedures.
      (1)   The city shall give the customer notice by mail or actual notice
that water service will be discontinued within a specified time due to the
violation and that the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the
termination by requesting a hearing scheduled before the city governing body or
a city official designated as a Hearing Officer by the governing body.
      (2)   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered.
      (3)   The governing body or Hearing Official shall make findings of fact
and order whether service should continue or be terminated.
   (b)   A fee of $50 shall be paid for the reconnection of any water service
terminated pursuant to division (a) above. In the event of subsequent
violations, the reconnection fee shall be $200 for the second violation and
$300 for any additional violations.
   (c)   Violation of this article shall be a municipal offense and may be
prosecuted in Municipal Court. Any person so charged and found guilty in
Municipal Court of violating the provisions of this article shall be guilty of
a municipal offense. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
The penalty for an initial violation shall be a mandatory fine of $100. In
addition, such customer may be required by the Court to serve a definite term
of confinement in the city or county jail which shall be fixed by the Court and
which shall not exceed 30 days. The penalty for a second or subsequent
conviction shall be a mandatory fine of $200. In addition, such customer shall
serve a definite term of confinement in the city or county jail which shall be
fixed by the Court and which shall not exceed 30 days.
§ 15-609 EMERGENCY TERMINATION.
   Nothing in this article shall limit the ability of any properly authorized
city official from terminating the supply of water to any or all service
connections as required to protect the health and safety of the public.
CHAPTER XVI: ZONING AND PLANNING
   Article
      
1.   CITY PLANNING COMMISSION/BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
      
2.   ZONING REGULATIONS
      
3.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
4.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
5.   FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT CODE
      
6.   MOBILE HOME PARKS
ARTICLE 1: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION/BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
Section
   
16-101   Commission re-establishment
   
16-102   Membership, terms and compensation
   
16-103   Meetings
   
16-104   Powers and duties
   
16-105   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
16-106   Budget
§ 16-101 COMMISSION RE-ESTABLISHMENT.
   There be and is hereby established a Planning Commission of the city.
(Ord. PC 1, passed 4-3-1972)
§ 16-102 MEMBERSHIP, TERMS AND COMPENSATION.
   (a)   Number of members. Said Commission shall consist of five members:
three members shall be residents of said city; one member shall reside outside
of city limits, but within three miles of the corporate limits of said city;
and one member shall be considered at-large.
   (b)   Appointments. The members of said Commission shall be appointed by the
Mayor and confirmed by the City Council.
   (c)   Term of office. The members of the Commission first appointed shall
serve respectively for terms of one, two and three years, divided equally or as
nearly equal as possible between these terms as one, two and three years.
Thereafter members shall be appointed for terms of three years each. Vacancies
shall be appointed for the unexpired term only.
   (d)   Salaries. Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation
for their services.
(Ord. PC 1, passed 4-3-1972; Ord. PC 1(c), passed 2-16-2005)
§ 16-103 MEETINGS.
   The members of the City Planning Commission shall meet at least once each
month, at such time and place as it may fix by resolution. It shall select one
of their number as Chairperson, and one as Vice-Chairperson who shall serve one
year and until his or her successor has been selected. Special meetings may be
called at any time by the Chairperson or in his or her absence by the Vice-
Chairperson. A majority of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The Commission shall cause a proper record to be kept
of its proceedings.
(Ord. PC 1, passed 4-3-1972)
§ 16-104 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   Duties. The powers and duties of the Commission shall be to make plans
and maps of the whole or any portion of such municipality, and of land outside
fo the municipality, which in the opinion of the Commission, bears relation to
the planning of the municipality, and to make changes in such plans or maps
when it deems the same advisable. Such maps or plans shall show the
Commission’s recommendations for new streets, alleys, ways, viaducts, bridges,
subways, parks, parkways, playgrounds or any other public grounds or public
improvements; and the removal, relocation, widening or extension of such public
works then existing with a view to the systematic planning of the municipality.
The Commission may make recommendations to the governing body concerning the
location of streets, transportation and communication facilities, public
buildings and grounds. Whenever the Commission shall have made and agreed upon
a plan for the development of the municipality or any portion thereof, such
plan or plans shall be submitted to the governing body for its consideration
and action.
   (b)   Further duties. The Planning Commission shall have such other and
further duties as may be assigned them by any laws of the state or ordinance of
the city.
(Ord. PC 1, passed 4-3-1972)
§ 16-105 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The Planning Commission is hereby designated to also serve as the city’s
Board of Zoning Appeals with all the powers and duties as provided for in
K.S.A. 12-759. The Board shall adopt rules in the form of bylaws for its
operation which shall include hearing procedures. Such bylaws shall be subject
to the approval of the governing body. Public records shall be kept of all
official actions of the Board which shall be maintained separately from those
of the Commission. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing
evidence presented, findings of fact, decisions and the vote upon each question
or appeal. A majority of the members of the Board present and voting at the
hearing shall be required to decide any appeal. Subject to subsequent approval
of the governing body, the Board shall establish a scale of reasonable fees to
be paid in advance by the appealing party. The present membership of the Board
of Zoning Appeals shall be disbanded effective on the date of recodification of
this code of ordinances.
§ 16-106 BUDGET.
   The governing body shall approve a budget for the Planning Commission and
make such allowances to the Commission as it deems proper, including funds for
the employment of such employees or consultants as the governing body may
authorize and provide, and shall add the same to the general budget. Prior to
the time that monies are available under the budget, the governing body may
appropriate monies for such purposes from the General Fund. The governing body
may enter into such contracts as it deems necessary and may receive and expend
funds and monies from the state or federal government or from any other
resource for such purposes.
ARTICLE 2: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
16-201   Zoning regulations incorporated
   
16-202   Extending zoning regulations
§ 16-201 ZONING REGULATIONS INCORPORATED.
   (a)   The Zoning Code of the City of Linwood, Kansas, 1991, be and the same
is hereby adopted in its entirety and incorporated in full, as if set forth in
length herein, and that the provisions therein shall be controlling within the
area jurisdiction of the city.
   (b)   There shall be not less than three copies of the Zoning Code of the
City of Linwood, Kansas, 1991, marked and stamped, “Official Copy as
Incorporated by Ord. PC-608”, with all sections and portions thereof intended
to be omitted clearly marked showing such omissions or showing the sections,
articles, chapters, parts or portions that are incorporated as the case may be
and to which shall be attached a copy of the incorporating ordinance filed with
the City Clerk, to be open for inspection to the public at all reasonable
business hours.
(Ord. PC-608, passed 3-19-1991; Ord. 617, passed 12-21-1993; Ord. PC-608-A,
passed - -2002; Ord. PC-608-A-04, passed 7-20-2002; Ord. PC 608-A-16, passed 1-
19-2016; Ord. PC 608-B-2024, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 16-202 EXTENDING ZONING REGULATIONS.
   The city shall from and after the passage of this section, exercise
exclusive zoning jurisdiction of any unincorporated territory lying outside of
but within three miles of the nearest point on the city limits.
(Res. 2-737, passed - -1973)
ARTICLE 3: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
16-301   Regulations incorporated
   
16-302   Extending subdivision regulations
§ 16-301 REGULATIONS INCORPORATED.
   (a)   The Subdivision Regulations of the City of Linwood, Kansas, 1973, be
and the same is hereby adopted in its entirety and incorporated in full as if
set forth in length herein, and that the provisions therein shall be
controlling within the area of jurisdiction of the city.
   (b)   There shall be not less than three copies of the Subdivision
Regulations of the City of Linwood, Kansas, 1973, marked and stamped, “Official
Copy as Incorporated by Ord. PC-4”, with all sections and portions thereof
intended to be omitted clearly marked showing such omission or showing the
sections, articles, chapters, parts or portions that are incorporated as the
case may be and to which shall be attached a copy of the incorporating
ordinance filed with the City Clerk, to be open to inspection and available to
the public at all reasonable business hours.
(Ord. PC-4, passed - -1973)
§ 16-302 EXTENDING SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   The city, shall from and after the passage of this section, exercise
subdivision jurisdiction of any unincorporated territory lying outside of but
within three miles of the nearest point on the city limits.
(Res. 2-738, passed - -1973)
ARTICLE 4: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
16-401   Regulations incorporated
§ 16-401 REGULATIONS INCORPORATED.
   (a)   The Comprehensive Plan of the City of Linwood, Kansas, 1992, is hereby
adopted in its entirety and incorporated in full as if set forth in length
herein, and the provisions therein shall be controlling within the area of
jurisdiction of the City of Linwood, Kansas.
   (b)   There shall be not less than three copies of the Comprehensive Plan of
the City of Linwood, Kansas, marked and stamped, “Official Copy as Incorporated
by Ord. 611”, with all sections and portions thereof intended to be omitted
clearly marked showing such omissions, or showing the sections, articles,
chapters, parts or portions that are incorporated as the case may be and to
which shall be attached a copy of the incorporating ordinance filed with the
City Clerk, to be open to inspection and available to the public at all
reasonable business hours.
(Ord. 611, passed 3-3-1992)
ARTICLE 5: FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
16-501   Regulations incorporated
§ 16-501 REGULATIONS INCORPORATED.
   (a)   Flood plain management code incorporated by reference. For the purpose
of regulating the development, use and construction of and on certain lands
within the corporate limits of the city, which are subject to periodic flooding
that certain code known as the “Flood Plain Management Code”, 2009 Edition, the
City of Linwood, Kansas, such incorporation being authorized by K.S.A. 12-741
and specifically in K.S.A. 12-766, not less than three copies of said “Flood
Plain Management Code” shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as
Incorporated by Ord. 694 of the City of Linwood”, and be filed with the City
Clerk, to be open to inspection and to be available to the public at all
reasonable hours.
   (b)   Invalidity. ln the event any section or provision of the “Flood Plain
Management Code”, 2009 Edition, or is in this section is held invalid, or is in
conflict with state law of regulations, the invalidity of that section or
provision shall not affect the validity of the balance of the sections or
provisions of such code or this section.
(Ord. 694, passed 6-16-2009; Ord. 694-A-2015, passed 2-3-2015)
ARTICLE 6: MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
   
16-601   Regulations incorporated
§ 16-601 REGULATIONS INCORPORATED.
   (a)   The Mobile Home Parks and Mobile Homes Ordinance of the City of
Linwood, Kansas, be and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as
if set forth at length herein, and that provisions therein shall be controlling
within the area of jurisdiction of the city.
   (b)   There shall be not less than three copies of the Mobile Home Parks and
Mobile Homes Ordinance of the City of Linwood, Kansas, marked and stamped
“Official Copy as Incorporated by Ord. 619”, with all sections of portions
thereof intended to be omitted clearly marked to show any such omissions or
showing the sections, articles, chapters, parts or portions that are
incorporated as the case may be, and to a which shall be attached a copy of the
incorporating ordinance filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and
available to the public at all reasonable business hours.
(Ord. 619, passed 1-4-1994)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   CHARTER ORDINANCES
      
II.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: CHARTER ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
E-1  9-4-   Exempting the city from K.S.A. 15-201, relating to the election of the
     1972   Mayor and Council, their terms in office and the filing of vacancies.
74-6 6-3-   Exempting the city from K.S.A. 25-2107 and 25-2108, eliminating the
     1974   necessity of holding primary elections for city officers.
TLE- 6-23-  Exempting the city from K.S.A. 79-5011, levying of taxes, authorizing an
1    1980   annual tax law for the purpose of creating and providing a special fund
            for the purpose of paying auditing and budget costs.
566  10-8-  Exempting the city from K.S.A. 79-5001 to 79-5017, inclusive, and any
     1985   amendments thereto, and shall not apply to any tax levy.
1-   5-14-  Exempting the city from the provisions of K.S.A. 12-4112 and providing
1998 1998   substitute and additional provisions therefor authorizing and setting the
            assessments for court costs in cases heard in the Municipal Court.
1-   10-18- Exempting the city from provisions of K.S.A. 66-1801 et seq., Kansas
2011 2011   Underground Utility Damage Protection Act.
            Exempting the city from the provisions of K.S.A. 75-1117, 75-1121, 75-
2-   11-15- 1122, 75-1123, 75-1124, 75-1125, K.S.A. 75-1126, 75-1127, 75-1128, 75-
2011 2011   1129 and 75-1130 and makes said statutes inapplicable to said city,
            pertaining to certain nonuniform audit requirements for cities of the
            third class.
            The city, by virtue of the power vested in it by Article 12, § 5 of the
1-   11-17- Constitution of the state, hereby elects and does exempt itself and make
2015 2015   inapplicable to it L. 2015, Chapter 88, § 71, relating to the filling of
            governing body vacancies, which enactment applies to this city, but does
            not apply uniformly to all cities.
            Exempting the city from provisions of K.S.A. 15-201 relating to the
1-   2-21-  election of officers, their terms of office, transitions to November
2017 2017   elections, the filling of governing body vacancies, and nomination
            petitions; and providing substitute and additional provisions.
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting a franchise for a right-of-way for a railway
140      8-3-1915    track, poles and wires for the use and benefit of the
                     Kansas City Kaw Valley and Western Railway Company, a
                     corporation, its successors and assigns, through the city.
                     Franchise granted for a depot silo for passenger and
                     freight depot, including platforms, out buildings, drives,
145      11-4-1915   poles, wires and the like, for the use and benefit of the
                     Kaw Valley and Western Railway Company, a corporation, its
                     successors and assigns, through the city.
                     Granting Continental Telephone Company of Kansas, Inc.,
                     its successors and assigns, a franchise, the right and
                     privilege to use the streets, alleys and public grounds of
                     the city for the purpose of erecting, laying and
575      10-22-1987  maintaining conduits for telephone lines together with the
                     necessary poles, wires and other apparatus, equipment and
                     appliances therefore, and to string wire above ground or
                     carry the same thereunder, and to do all things necessary
                     and proper for the purpose of operating and maintaining a
                     telephone system within the city limits.
                     Providing for and approving the transfer of the cable
                     television franchise in the city, by Douglas to Galaxy,
627      9-5-1995    granted pursuant to Ord. 596, dated March 21, 1990,
                     amending the franchise ordinance in certain respects;
                     providing for publication of the caption; and providing
                     the effective date of the transfer.
                     Providing for and approving the transfer of the cable
                     television franchise in the city, by Galaxy to WorldNet,
643      2-15-2000   granted pursuant to Ord. 627, dated September 5, 1995,
                     amending the franchise ordinance in certain respects;
                     providing for publication of the caption; and providing
                     the effective date of the transfer.
670      10-21-2003  Amending a prior ordinance relating to a franchise
                     agreement with Sprint pursuant to K.S.A. 12-2001.
                     Granting to Westar Energy, Inc., a Kansas corporation, its
                     successors and assigns, an electric franchise, prescribing
561-05   4-19-2005   the terms thereof and relating thereto, and repealing all
                     ordinances or parts of ordinances inconsistent with or in
                     conflict with the terms hereof.
                     Granting a nonexclusive franchise renewal to the World
                     Company dba Sunflower Broadband, its successors and
693      5-5-2009    assigns, to construct, operate and maintain a cable system
                     in the city; and setting forth conditions accompanying the
                     grant of the franchise; and providing for regulation and
                     use of the cable system.
                     Approving the transfer of the cable television franchise
696      9-21-2010   granted by the city in Ord. 693 from World Company d/b/
                     a Sunflower Broadband to Knology.
                     Approving the transfer of the cable television, telephone
706      6-4-2013    and internet franchise granted by the city in Ord. 696
                     from Knology to WOW.
                     Granting a franchise by the city to Atmos Energy
                     Corporation, its successors and assigns, the right to
                     furnish, sell and distribute gas to the city and to all
                     persons, businesses and industries within the city and the
                     right to acquire, construct, install, locate, maintain,
710      12-2-2014   operate and extend into, within and through said city all
                     facilities reasonably necessary to furnish, sell and
                     distribute gas to the city and to all persons, businesses
                     and industries within the city and in the territory
                     adjacent thereto and the right to make reasonable use of
                     all streets and other public places as may be necessary,
                     and fixing the terms and conditions thereof.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kansas Statutes Annotated
References to Resolutions
References to Charter Ordinances
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KANSAS STATUTES ANNOTATED
K.S.A. Section Code Section
K.S.A. Section                Code Section
Ch. 2, Art. 13                8-407
2-1314                        8-407
2-2438a(x)                    2-112
8-2, 142                      14-205
8-15, 108                     14-302
8-126 to 8-149                8-303,
                              8-2A05
8-1102                        8-311
8-1599                        3-106
8-1717                        14-302
8-2118                        14-102
9-1402                        1-704
9-2107                        1-704
10-131                        1-801
10-803                        1-310
                              4-611,
12-1,115                      8-2A14,
                              8-313,
                              8-404
12-16,102                     1-402
12-103                        1-202
12-120 to 12-121              1-113
12-187 et seq.                1-804
12-631                        15-410
12-741                        16-501
12-759                        16-105
12-766                        16-501
12-1608                       1-310
                              8-307,
12-1617e                      8-403,
                              15-417
12-1617f                      8-404
12-1617g                      15-417
12-1675                       1-704
12-1675a                      1-703
12-1675a(g)                   1-704
12-1677a                      1-704
12-1677b                      1-704
12-1740 et seq.               3-105
12-1750 et seq.               8-707,
                              8-708
12-1750 to 1756               4-614
12-1750                       4-602
12-1751                       4-601
12-1752                       4-605,
                              4-606
12-1755                       4-611
12-1756                       4-612,
                              8-709
12-1801                       13-102
12-1802                       13-103
12-1803                       13-104
12-1804                       13-105
12-1805                       13-106
12-1806                       13-107
12-1807                       13-102
12-1808                       13-108
12-2001                       TSO II
12-3002                       1-108
12-3007                       1-110
12-3008                       1-111
12-3009 through 12-3012       4-801,
                              7-201
12-3014                       1-106
12-3015                       1-106
12-4112                       9-105,
                              TSO I
15-106                        1-203
15-201                        6-103,
                              TSO I
15-209                        1-201,
                              1-209
17-12a401                     1-704
17-1914                       4-502
17-1915                       4-503
17-1916                       4-508
17-1917                       4-509
17-1918                       4-510
21-4106                       3-209
21-4107                       3-209
21-6204                       3-209,
                              8-201
21-6412                       2-112
25-205                        6-103
25-2101 et seq.               6-101
25-2107                       TSO I
25-2108                       TSO I
25-2111                       6-102
26-206                        6-102
Ch. 27                        3-105
Ch. 32                        2-112
35-107                        1-403
Ch. 37                        2-112
40-2404                       8-711
40-3901 et seq.               4-611
41-307 to 41-307a             3-212
41-308d                       3-305
41-310                        3-302
41-710                        3-306
41-712                        3-304 
41-713                        3-305
                              3-104,
41-719                        3-105,
                              3-106
41-2601 et seq.               3-213
                              3-403,
41-2614                       3-503,
                              3-603
41-2701 et seq.               3-209
                              3-201,
41-2702                       3-207,
                              3-802
                              3-205,
41-2703                       3-801,
                              3-804
41-2704                       3-206
                              3-205,
41-2708                       3-209,
                              3-210
41-3101 et seq.               14-302
50-6,121 et seq.              4-211,
                              4-221
50-6,122                      4-211,
                              4-221
50-6,129(a)(1) through (a)(8) 4-211
54-104                        1-501
54-106                        1-501
60-1111                       13-109
60-2101                       8-2A13
65-163a                       15-228
65-3410                       15-525
66-1801 et seq.               TSO I
74-4901 et seq.               1-404
74-4902(13)                   1-404
75-1117                       TSO I
75-1121                       TSO I
75-1122                       TSO I
75-1123                       TSO I
75-1124                       TSO I
75-1125                       TSO I
75-1126                       TSO I
75-1127                       TSO I
75-1128                       TSO I
75-1129                       TSO I
75-1130                       TSO I
75-4301a et seq.              1-315
75-4308                       1-501
78-111                        1-504
79-5001 to 79-5017            TSO I
79-5011                       TSO I
                              
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2-737    - -1973     16-202
2-738    - -1973     16-302
7-2002   8-20-2002   1-404
1-2011   2-8-2011    1-203
2-2011   3-1-2011    1-316
2-2013   6-18-2013   1-403
                    
 
REFERENCES TO CHARTER ORDINANCES
Charter Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Charter Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
E-1              9-4-1972    TSO I
74-6             6-3-1974    TSO I
TLE-1            6-23-1980   TSO I
566              10-8-1985   TSO I
1-1998           5-14-1998   9-105,
                             TSO I
1-2011           10-18-2011  TSO I
2-2011           11-15-2011  TSO I
1-2015           11-17-2015  TSO I
                             1-201,
1-2017           2-21-2017   1-206,
                             6-103,
                             TSO I
                            
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.      Date Passed Code Section
140           8-3-1915    TSO II
145           11-4-1915   TSO II
30            8-5-1963    15-429
PC 1          4-3-1972    16-101—
                          16-104
PC-4          - -1973     16-301
523           6-19-1979   14-205
531           5-5-1980    1-803
545           3-1-1983    15-204
546           3-22-1983   12-201—
                          12-207
570           6-18-1986   7-301—
                          7-312
575           10-22-1987  TSO II
584           2-1-1988    1-203
590           10-18-1988  1-801
600           5-1-1990    8-201—
                          8-210
601           7-3-1990    1-402
PC-608        3-19-1991   16-201
611           3-3-1992    16-401
–           12-7-1993   7-101
617           12-21-1993  16-201
619           1-4-1994    16-601
621           4-7-1994    5-301
627           9-5-1995    TSO II
632           7-21-1998   4-801
633           7-21-1998   7-201
641           11-16-1999  14-203
–           12-7-1999   7-101
643           2-15-2000   TSO II
648           6-6-2000    11-201
600A          4-17-2001   8-208
PC-608-A      - -2002     16-201
657           1-1-2002    9-101—
                          9-105
PC-608-A-04   7-20-2002   16-201
664           10-1-2002   14-101—
                          14-103
665           10-1-2002   11-101
669           11-16-2002  1-804
670           10-21-2003  TSO II
PC 1(c)       2-16-2005   16-102
561-05        4-19-2005   TSO II
679           10-2-2007   14-301
687           2-19-2008   14-203
638-08A       7-1-2008    15-207
674-08        10-27-2008  14-202
582-A-09      - -2009     3-207
                          3-402,
603-09        1-20-2009   3-502,
                          3-602
674-08-A      2-17-2009   14-202
693           5-5-2009    TSO II
694           6-16-2009   16-501
603-09A       8-3-2010    3-402,
                          3-502
696           9-21-2010   TSO II
                          15-215,
698           7-21-2011   15-221,
                          15-222
699           7-21-2011   15-523
657-A         4-3-2012    9-105
674-08-B      8-7-2012    14-202
706           6-4-2013    TSO II
                          3-401,
603-09-B-2014 5-6-2014    3-501,
                          3-601
671-A-2014    5-6-2014    5-106
545-A-2014    8-19-2014   15-204
708-2014      9-16-2014   1-805
709-2014      11-18-2014  14-204
710           12-2-2014   TSO II
694-A-2015    2-3-2015    16-501
PC 608-A-16   1-19-2016   16-201
671           4-21-2016   5-101—
                          5-114
674-08-C      5-3-2016    14-202
715-2017      4-4-2017    14-206
716-2017      10-3-2017   15-221
713-A-2020    2-4-2020    2-121
582-C-2021    9-7-2021    3-213,
                          3-304
                          14-101—
                          14-103,
                          14-201—
726-2022      4-5-2022    14-207,
                          14-301—
                          14-307,
                          14-401—
                          14-406
727-2022      4-5-2022    4-202
728-2022      4-5-2022    4-701
729-2022      4-5-2022    4-402
730-2022      4-5-2022    4-615
731-2022      4-5-2022    4-302
726A-2023     5-16-2023   14-204
736-2023      8-15-2023   8-801 —
                          8-809
742-2024      9-17-2024   1-805
PC 608-B-2024 12-17-2024  16-201
                         
 
