CITY CODE
of
SCOTT CITY, KANSAS
1998
Code current through:
Ord. 1280, passed 7-7-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of Scott City, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 1280, passed July 7, 2025. Ordinances of the City adopted
after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that
they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in
order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been
amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO. 1281
 
AN ORDINANCE REGULATING NOISY ANIMALS IN THE CITY OF SCOTT CITY, KANSAS; ADDING
SECTION 5-4C-1; TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF SCOTT CITY, KANSAS.
 
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF SCOTT CITY, KANSAS:
 
SECTION 1.  Amendment. Section 5-4C-1 of the Code of Ordinances for the City of
Scott City is hereby added to read as follows:
 
Section 5-4C-1. Noisy Animals.
 
   (a)   Violation. No person shall own any animal that, by its frequent,
excessive, or habitual barking, howling, yelping, or any other noise or action,
unreasonably interferes with the use or enjoyment of property by any person of
reasonable sensibilities who resides at or occupies the property.
 
   (b)   Prima Facie Evidence. In any prosecution under this section, the
admission of an audio recording or video footage documenting the barking,
howling, yelping, or other noise or action of an animal occurring continuously
or intermittently over the course of a thirty (30) minute period shall
constitute prima facie evidence that such barking, howling, yelping, or other
noise or action: (1) is frequent, excessive, and habitual; and (2) unreasonably
interferes with the use or enjoyment of property by a person of reasonable
sensibilities who resides at or occupies the property.
 
   (c)   Penalty. A person who is convicted of a violation of this section
shall be guilty of a Class B violation and shall be sentenced as follows:
 
(1)   First Conviction. On a first conviction of a violation of this section,
the person convicted shall be sentenced to imprisonment of not more than six
(6) months and shall be fined at least $200, but in no event shall the person
be fined in excess of $1,000. The court shall order that the first half of any
such fine be paid at the time of sentencing or within thirty (30) days
thereafter, unless extended by the court for good cause. The court shall order
that the second half of the fine be suspended for a period of six (6) months
upon the condition that the person convicted shall not been charged with or
convicted of a subsequent violation of this section, except that the court may
reinstate the second half of the fine upon conviction for a new violation of
this section. The court shall schedule a hearing to take place after such six-
month period to review the court records to determine whether the person has
been charged with or convicted of a subsequent violation of this section and,
at such time, the court shall make one of the following orders:
 
(A)   No New Violation. If the court finds that the person has not been charged
with and has not been convicted of such violation, the court shall abate the
second half of the fine and the person shall have no duty to pay such amount.
 
(B)   New Conviction. If the court finds that the person has been convicted of
such violation, the court shall order prompt payment of the second half of the
fine.
 
(C)   New Violation Pending. If the court finds the person has been charged
with but has not yet been convicted of such violation, the court shall continue
the hearing until such time that the new charge has been resolved. If the new
charge is resolved by dismissal or acquittal, the court shall abate the second
half of the fine. If the new charge is resolved by the imposition of a
sentence, the court shall order the prompt payment of the second half of the
fine.
(2)   Second Conviction or Subsequent Conviction. On a second or subsequent
conviction of a violation of this section, the person convicted shall be
sentenced to imprisonment of not more than six (6) months and shall be fined at
least $300, but in no event shall the person be fined in excess of $1,000. In
addition to the penalties set forth in this subsection (c)(2), the court shall
make the following orders:
 
(A)   Bark Collar or Animal Behavior Training. For a period of six (6) months
after the date of conviction, the court shall order the person convicted to use
an audible bark collar on the subject animal at all times in which the animal
is placed outdoors. Any such collar shall be an electronic training collar that
automatically emits a sound or vibration upon detection of a loud noise or bark
produced by the animal wearing the collar. As an alternative to using an
audible bark collar, the court shall order the person to complete animal
behavior training to address the unlawful noise or action produced by the
subject animal. Any such animal behavior training shall be completed within a
period of six (6) months after the date of conviction.
 
(B)   Impoundment Upon Failure to Comply. If the person convicted violates or
otherwise fails to comply any order issued pursuant to subsection (c)(2)(A),
the court shall order the subject animal to be impounded at the municipal pound
for a period of at least three (3) days, but in no event shall the animal be
impounded for a period in excess of thirty (30) days. The court shall order
that any costs of impoundment shall be paid by the person convicted prior to
the animal being released from impoundment.
 
   (d)   No Limitation of Remedies. Nothing in this section shall be construed
to in any way limit, restrict, or prohibit any other penalty or remedy
available to the City by ordinance or by law, including, but not limited to,
the abatement of nuisances.
 
 
   SECTION 2.   Severability. If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of
this ordinance is found to be unconstitutional or is otherwise held invalid by
any court of competent jurisdiction, it shall not affect the validity of any
remaining parts of this ordinance.
 
   SECTION 3.   Headings; Section References. The headings used in this
ordinance are intended for convenience of reference only and shall not affect
the interpretation or construction of this ordinance or any part hereof.
 
SECTION 4. Effective Date; Publication. This ordinance shall be in full force
and effect from and after its publication, or a publication of a summary
thereof, in the official city newspaper.
 
   
   APPROVED AND PASSED by the Governing Body of the City of Scott City, Kansas,
this 18th day of August, 2025.
 
                              
_________________________________________
                     EVERETT M. GREEN, Mayor
ATTEST:
 
 
__________________________________
RUTH BECKER, City Clerk
 
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM AND CONTENT:
 
 
__________________________________
JENNIFER V. CUNNINGHAM, City Attorney
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
W:\JVC\SCOTT.CITY\Ordinances\Dogs\5-4C-1.Noisy-Animals.Final.docx
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ord 1282
 
AN ORDINANCE CHANGING THE ZONING CLASSIFICATION OF CERTAIN LAND LOCATED WITHIN
THE CITY OF SCOTT CITY, KANSAS, UNDER THE AUTHORITY GRANTED BY STATUTE AND THE
SCOTT CITY CODE.
 
WHEREAS, on August 14, 2025, Neil & Ranae Baker applied to change the zoning
classification of certain ground.
THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Governing Body of the City of Scott City,
Kansas:
1.   That having received a recommendation from Scott City Planning and Zoning
Commission, the proper notice having been given and hearing having been held as
provided by law and under the authority of and subject to the provisions of
State Statute and the Scott City Code, and the petition period having passed;
the zoning classification of the land legally described is hereby changed as
follows:
 
Zoning Change from C-2 General Commercial District to R-1 Single-Family
Residential District for the property legally described as –
 
Lots 10-11, 14, & 15, Block 2 in Websters 3 rd Addition to the City of Scott
City (900 W 6 th Street).
 
 
2.   Upon this Ordinance taking effect, the zoning change shall be codified,
and be entered and shown on the Official Zoning Map of the City of Scott City,
Kansas, adopted in Scott City Code Section 10-4-3 and said Official Zoning Map
is hereby reincorporation as part of the City Code as amended.
 
3.   This Ordinance shall take effect and be in full force from and after its
publication in the official City newspaper.
ADOPTED this 2 nd day of September 2025, by the City Council, City of Scott
City, Kansas.
 
 
 
 
___________________________________________
Everett M. Green, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
 
___________________________________________
Ruth Becker, City Clerk
 
 
 
 
 
ord 1283
 
AN ORDINANCE GRANTING A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT OF CERTAIN LAND LOCATED WITHIN
THE CITY OF SCOTT CITY UNDER THE AUTHORITY GRANTED BY STATUTE AND THE SCOTT
CITY CODE.
 
WHEREAS, on August 14, 2025, the Scott City Planning and Zoning Commission
considered an application and recommended that the Governing Body approve a
conditional use permit of certain ground.
THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Governing Body of the City of Scott City,
Kansas:
1.   That having received a recommendation from Scott City Planning and Zoning
Commission, the proper notice having been given and hearing having been held as
provided by law and under the authority of and subject to the provisions of
State Statute and the Scott City Code, and the petition period having passed; a
conditional use permit is granted as follows:
S 23’ of Lot 2 & N2 Lot 3 in Block 2 of the Original Scott City Industrial
Park, is granted a Conditional Use Permit to allow for Motor Vehicle Sales &
Storage (433 Sunflower Road).
 
2.   This Ordinance shall take effect and be in full force from and after its
publication in the official City newspaper.
ADOPTED this 2 nd day of September 2025, by the City Council, City of Scott
City, Kansas.
 
 
 
 
___________________________________________
Everett M. Green, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
 
___________________________________________
Ruth Becker, City Clerk
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 1284
 
AN ORDINANCE REGULATING TRAFFIC WITHIN THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF
SCOTT CITY, KANSAS; INCORPORATING BY REFERENCE THE STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE
FOR KANSAS CITIES, 52ND EDITION, WITH CERTAIN OMISSIONS, DELETIONS,
MODIFICATIONS, ADDITIONS, AND AMENDMENTS; PRESCRIBING ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS;
PROVIDING CERTAIN PENALTIES; AMENDING CURRENT CODE SECTION 6-1-1; REPEALING
CURRENT CODE SECTION 6-1-1 AND REPLACING IT WITH AN AMENDED VERSION OF THE
SAME; ALL TO THE CODIFICATION OF THE CITY OF SCOTT CITY.
 
      BE IT ORDAINED by the Governing Body of the City of Scott City, Kansas:
 
SECTION 1.   Amendment.  That Code Section 6-1-1 of Title 6, Chapter 1 of the
Codification of the City of Scott City is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
   Section 6-1-1. Standard Traffic Ordinance.
 
(a)    Incorporating Standard Traffic Ordinance. There is hereby incorporated
by reference for the purpose of regulating traffic within the corporate limits
of the City of Scott City, Kansas, that certain standard traffic ordinance
known as the Standard Traffic Ordinance for Kansas Cities, 52nd Edition,
prepared and published in book form by the League of Kansas Municipalities,
Topeka, Kansas, hereinafter referred to as the “Standard Traffic Ordinance”,
save and except such articles, sections, parts, or portions as are hereafter
omitted, deleted, modified, added, or amended. One official copy of the
Standard Traffic Ordinance shall be marked or stamped "Official Copy as Adopted
by Ordinance No. 1284”, with all sections or portions thereof intended to be
omitted, deleted, modified, added or amended clearly marked to show any such
omission, deletion, modification, addition, or amendment and to which shall be
attached a copy of this ordinance and filed with the City Clerk to be open to
inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours. The police
department, municipal judge, city attorney, city prosecutor, and all
administrative departments of the city charged with enforcement of the
ordinance shall be supplied, at the cost of the City, such number of official
copies of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, similarly marked, as may be deemed
expedient. All references to the Standard Traffic Ordinance as adopted and
incorporated into this Code shall be in a form designating section 6-1-
1 followed in parenthesis followed by the section number of the Standard
Traffic Ordinance, as incorporated, e.g. Section 33 of the Standard Traffic
Ordinance as adopted and incorporated shall be referred to as Section 6-1-1
(33).
 
(b)   Omissions. The following section contained in Article 8 of the Standard
Traffic Ordinance is hereby omitted and deleted:
 
 
Section 38.1 Driving in Defiles or Canyons.
 
(c)   Amendment. Section 23 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, also referred to
as 6-1-1(23) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
   Section 23. Accident Involving Personal Injuries or Damage to Attended
Vehicle or Property; Duties of Drivers, Reports; Penalties.
 
(a)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to
any person or damage to any attended vehicle or property shall immediately stop
such vehicle at the scene of such accident, or as close thereto as possible,
but shall then immediately return to and in every event shall remain at the
scene of the accident until the driver has fulfilled the requirements of
Section 25.
 
(b)    Violation of subsection (a) when an accident results in:
 
      (1)   Total property damages of less than $1,000 is a traffic offense
and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in subsection (d) of
Section 201. For the purposes of determining whether a conviction is a first,
second, third, or subsequent conviction in sentencing under this subsection,
the term “conviction” includes a conviction of a violation of any ordinance of
any city, or resolution of any county, or a law of any state that is in
substantial conformity with subsection (a). It is irrelevant whether an offense
occurred before or after conviction for a previous offense.
 
      (2)    Total property damages of $1,000 or more is a traffic offense and,
upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $2,500 or by
imprisonment of not more than one (1) year, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
 
      (3)    Injury to any person is a traffic offense and, upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $2,500 or by imprisonment of not
more than one (1) year, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
 
(c)    The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident set forth in
subsection (a) shall comply with the provisions of section 26.1.
 
(d)   Amendment. Section 29 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, also referred to
as 6-1-1(29) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
   Section 29. Reckless Driving; Penalties.
 
(a)   Any person who drives any vehicle in willful or wanton disregard for the
safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving.
 
(b)    Upon a first conviction of a violation of this section a person shall be
sentenced to not less than five (5) days nor more than ninety (90) days’
imprisonment or fined not less than $25 nor more than $500, or sentenced to
both such fine and imprisonment. On a second or subsequent conviction of a
violation of this section, a person shall be sentenced to not less than ten
(10) days nor more than six (6) months imprisonment or fined not less than $50
nor more than $500, or sentenced to both such fine and imprisonment.
 
(e)   Amendment. Section 33 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, also referred to
as 6-1-1(33) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
   
   Section 33. Maximum Speed Limits.
 
(a)   Except as provided in subsection (b) or when a special hazard exists that
requires lower speed for compliance with Section 6-1-1(32), the limits
specified in this section or established as authorized by law, including, but
not limited to, K.S.A. 8-1559 or K.S.A. 8-1560, and amendments thereto, shall
be maximum lawful speeds, and no person shall drive a vehicle at a speed in
excess of such maximum limits:
 
(1)   Twenty (20) miles per hour in any business district;
 
(2)   Thirty (30) miles per hour in any residential district;
 
(3)   Twenty (20) miles per hour in any park or school zone; and
 
(4)   Fifty-Five (55) or Sixty-Five (65) miles per hour in all other locations,
as provided by law.
 
(b)   No person shall drive a school bus to or from school, or interschool or
intraschool functions or activities, at a speed in excess of the maximum speed
limits provided in subsection (a), except that the board of education of any
school district may establish by board policy lower maximum speed limits for
the operation of such district's school buses. The provisions of this
subsection relating to school buses shall apply to buses used for the
transportation of students enrolled in community colleges or area vocational
schools, when such buses are transporting students to or from school, or
functions or activities (K.S.A. Supp. 8-1558).
 
(c)   The maximum speed limits in this section have been and may continue to be
altered by the City pursuant to K.S.A. 8-1560, and amendments thereto, or by
the Secretary of the Kansas Department of Transportation pursuant to K.S.A. 8-
1559, and amendments thereto.
 
(f)   Amendment. Section 107 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, also referred
to as 6-1-1(107) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
   Section 107. Unattended Motor Vehicle; Ignition; Key and Brakes.
 
(a)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to
stand unattended on any street or highway without first stopping the engine,
locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition and effectively
setting the brake thereon and, when standing upon any grade, turning the front
wheels to the curb or side of the highway.
 
(b)   For the purpose of this section, unattended shall not be construed to
mean a motor vehicle with an engine that has been activated by a remote starter
system, when the motor vehicle is locked and when the ignition keys are not in
the motor vehicle.
 
(g)   Amendment. Section 115 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, also referred
to as 6-1-1(115) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
   Section 115. Unlawful Riding on Vehicles; Persons 14 years of Age and Older.
 
(a)   It shall be unlawful for any person fourteen (14) years of age or older
to ride on any vehicle or upon any portion thereof not designed or intended for
use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion.
 
(b)    It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to allow any person
fourteen (14) years of age or older to ride on any vehicle or upon any portion
thereof not designated or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle
is in motion.
 
(c)    This section shall not apply to:
 
(1)   An employee engaged in the necessary discharge of the employee’s duty
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise or cargo; or
 
(2)    When the vehicle is being operated in parades, caravans, or exhibitions
which are officially authorized or otherwise permitted by ordinance,
resolution, or law.
 
Ref.: For persons under fourteen (14) years of age, see Section 182.2.
 
(h)   Amendment. Section 196 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, also referred
to as 6-1-1(196) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
   Section 196. Unauthorized Operator.
 
   (a)   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by
such person and under such person's control to be driven upon any highway by
any person who has no legal right to do so, or who does not have a valid
driver’s license.
 
   (b)   Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of an ordinance
violation, and on conviction shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars
($500) or be sentenced to not more than ninety (90) days’ imprisonment, or
sentenced to both such fine and imprisonment.
 
(i)   Amendment. Section 197 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, also referred
to as 6-1-1(197) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
   Section 197. Unauthorized Minors.
 
   (a)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit such person’s child or ward
under the age of eighteen (18) years to drive a motor vehicle upon any highway
when such minor person is not authorized under the laws of Kansas to drive a
vehicle.
 
   (b)   Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of an ordinance
violation, and on conviction shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars
($500) or be sentenced to not more than ninety (90) days’ imprisonment, or be
sentenced to both such fine and imprisonment.
 
(j)   Amendment. Section 201.1 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, also referred
to as 6-1-1(201.1) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
   Section 201.1. Failure to Comply with a Traffic Citation.
 
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to fail to comply with a traffic citation.
Failure to comply with a traffic citation means failure either to:
 
(1)   Appear before the municipal court in response to a traffic citation and
pay any fine and court costs imposed as ordered by the court; or
 
(2)   Otherwise comply with a traffic citation issued for an ordinance traffic
infraction. Failure to comply with a traffic citation shall be unlawful
regardless of the disposition of the charge for which such citation was
originally issued.
 
(b)   (1)   (A)   In addition to penalties of law applicable under subsection
(a), when a person fails to comply with a traffic citation, except for any
violations provided in subsection (b)(1)(C), the municipal court shall mail
notice to the person that if the person does not appear in municipal court, pay
fines, court costs, and any penalties as ordered by the court, request a waiver
or reduction of fees, fines, and court costs pursuant to subsection (g)(1)(A),
request an alternative requirement pursuant to subsection(g)(1)(B), or request
both such waiver/reduction and alternative requirement within thirty (30) days
from the date of mailing notice, then the Division will be notified to suspend
the person’s driving privileges unless such person is eligible for restricted
driving privileges pursuant to subsection (b)(1)(B) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and
amendments thereto. Any such notice shall contain a notice that, within thirty
(30) days from the date of mailing notice, the person may submit a request to
the municipal court for a waiver or reduction of fees, fines, and court costs
pursuant to subsection (g)(1)(A), request an alternative requirement pursuant
to subsection(g)(1)(B), or request both such waiver/reduction and alternative
requirement. If the person is eligible for restricted driving privileges, then
the Division will, pursuant to state law, restrict such person’s driving
privileges pursuant to the terms set forth in subsection (b)(1)(B) of K.S.A. 8-
2110, and amendments thereto. The municipal court shall charge an additional
fee of $5.00 for mailing such notice. Upon the person’s failure to appear in
municipal court or pay fines, court costs, and any penalties as ordered by the
court within such thirty (30) days of mailing notice, the municipal court shall
electronically notify the Division unless the municipal court has issued a
written order granting the person’s request for waiver or reduction of fees,
fines, and court costs pursuant to subsection (g)(1)(A), granting the person’s
request for an alternative requirement pursuant to subsection(g)(1)(B), or
request both such waiver/reduction and alternative requirement. Failure to
abide by the terms of the order shall result in the municipal court notifying
the Division that the person’s license shall be suspended for the failure to
comply with a traffic citation. Upon receipt of a report of a failure to comply
with a traffic citation under this subsection, pursuant to K.S.A. 8-255, and
amendments thereto, the Division will notify the violator and suspend the
license of the violator until satisfactory evidence of substantial compliance
with the terms of the traffic citation has been furnished to the municipal
court unless such person is eligible for restricted driving privileges pursuant
to subsection (b)(1)(B) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto. If the person
is eligible for restricted driving privileges, the Division will notify the
violator that the person’s driving privileges are restricted pursuant to
subsection (b)(1)(B) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto. When the
municipal court determines that the person is in substantial compliance with
the terms of the traffic citation, the court shall immediately electronically
notify the Division of such compliance. Upon receipt of notification of such
compliance from the municipal court, the Division will terminate the
restriction, suspension or suspension action.
 
      (B)   (i)   When restricted driving privileges are approved pursuant to
subsection (b)(1)(B) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto, the person’s
driving privileges will, pursuant to state law, be restricted by the Division
to driving only under the following circumstances:
 
            (a)   In going to or returning from the person’s place of
employment or schooling;
 
            (b)    in the course of the person’s employment;
 
            (c)    in going to or returning from an appointment with a
healthcare provider or during a medical emergency;
 
            (d)    in going to and returning from probation or parole meetings,
drug or alcohol counseling or any place the person is required to go by a
court;
 
            (e)    in going to or returning from dropping off or picking up one
or more children from school or child care;
 
            (f)    in going to or returning from purchasing groceries or fuel
for their vehicle; and
 
            (g)    in going to or returning from any religious worship service
held by a religious organization.
 
         (ii)   The Division will determine the qualifications, duration, and
any other terms and conditions of any restricted driving privileges pursuant to
subsection (b)(1)(B) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto.
         
         (iii)   The Division will, pursuant to subsection (b)(1)(B)(iii) of
K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto, rescind restricted driving privileges
for any person authorized pursuant to this sub(b)(1)(B) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and
amendments thereto,
 
         (iv)   A person operating a motor vehicle in violation of restrictions
provided in subsection (b)(1)(B)(i) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto,
shall be guilty of operating a vehicle in violation of restrictions as provided
in Section 6-1-1(195).
 
      (C)   (i)   Violations of the following sections shall not provide the
basis for a violation of this section: Sections 6-1-1(18), 6-1-1(63), 6-1-1
(65), 6-1-1(67), 6-1-1(68), 6-1-1(69), 6-1-1(74), 6-1-1(83), 6-1-1(85), 6-1-1
(86), 6-1-1(107), 6-1-1(124), 6-1-1(115), 6-1-1(182.2), 6-1-1(112), 6-1-1(114),
6-1-1(127), 6-1-1(129), 6-1-1(130), 6-1-1(131), 6-1-1(132), 6-1-1(133), 6-1-1
(112.1), 6-1-1(114.4), and 6-1-1(135.1).
 
         (ii)   The provisions of this subparagraph shall be construed and
applied retroactively. A person may petition the municipal court in which the
person should have complied with the citation that led to a prior violation of
this section. If the court determines that the person committed an offense that
does not provide the basis for a violation of this section, as amended by this
act, the court shall immediately electronically notify the division of
vehicles. Upon receipt of such notification from the informing court, the
division of vehicles shall terminate any restriction, suspension or suspension
action that resulted from the prior violation of this section.
   (2)   (A)   In lieu of suspension under subsection (b)(1) of K.S.A. 8-2110,
and amendments thereto, the driver may submit to the Division a written request
for restricted driving privileges. The driver may apply and be eligible for
restricted driving privileges pursuant to subsection (b)(2) of K.S.A. 8-2110 if
such driver has previously been approved for restricted driving privileges
pursuant to subsection (b)(1) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto.
 
      (B)   (i)   A person whose driving privileges have been revoked by the
Division solely for driving a motor vehicle on any highway as defined in K.S.A.
8-1424, and amendments thereto, of this state at a time when such person’s
privilege to do so was canceled, suspended, or revoked for failure to comply
with a traffic citation pursuant to this section may submit to the Division a
written request for restricted driving privileges pursuant to subsection (b)(2)
(B)(i) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto. The eligibility for any such
restricted driving privileges will be determined by the Division pursuant to
subsection (b)(2)(B)(i) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto.
 
         (ii)   The Division will, pursuant to subsection (b)(2)(B)(ii) of
K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto, rescind restricted driving privileges
for any person authorized pursuant to subsection (b)(2)(B)(i) of K.S.A. 8-2110,
and amendments thereto, if the person is found guilty of a violation resulting
in a license suspension, revocation, or cancellation for reasons other than
failure to comply with a traffic citation.
 
         (iii)   A person operating a motor vehicle in violation of
restrictions provided in subsection (b)(2)(D) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments
thereto, shall be guilty of operating a vehicle in violation of restrictions as
provided in Section 6-1-1(195).
 
      (C)   A person whose driver’s license has expired during the period when
such person’s driver’s license has been suspended for failure to pay fines for
traffic citations, the driver may submit to the Division a written request for
restricted driving privileges pursuant to subsection (b)(2)(C) of K.S.A. 8-
2110, and amendments thereto. The qualifications for any such restricted
driving privileges will be determined by the Division pursuant to subsection
(b)(2)(C) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto.
 
      (D)   Upon review and approval of the driver’s eligibility, the driving
privileges will be restricted by the Division or until the terms of the traffic
citation have been substantially complied with and the municipal court shall
immediately electronically notify the Division of such compliance. If the
driver fails to substantially comply with the traffic citation, the driving
privileges will be suspended by the Division pursuant to subsection (b)(2)(D)
of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto, until the municipal court determines
the person has substantially complied with the terms of the traffic citation
and the court shall immediately electronically notify the Division of such
substantial compliance. Upon receipt of notification of such compliance from
the municipal court, the Division of vehicles will terminate the suspension
action pursuant to subsection (b)(2)(D) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments
thereto. When restricted driving privileges are approved pursuant to subsection
(b)(2)(D) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto, the person’s driving
privileges will be restricted by the Division to driving only under the
following circumstances:
 
         (i)   In going to or returning from the person’s place of employment
or schooling;
 
         (ii)    in the course of the person’s employment;
 
         (iii)    in going to or returning from an appointment with a health
care provider or during a medical emergency;
 
         (iv)    in going to and returning from probation or parole meetings,
drug or alcohol counseling or any place the person is required to go by a
court;
 
         (v)    in going to or returning from dropping off or picking up one or
more children from school or child care;
 
         (vi)    in going to or returning from purchasing groceries or fuel of
their vehicle; and
 
         (vii)    in going to or returning from any religious worship service
held by a religious organization.
 
 
   (c)   Except as provided in subsection (d), when the municipal court
notifies the Division of a failure to comply with a traffic citation pursuant
to subsection (b), the court shall assess a reinstatement fee of $100. Such
reinstatement fee shall be in addition to any fine, restricted driving
privilege application fee, court costs, and other penalties. The municipal
court shall remit all reinstatement fees to the state treasurer in accordance
with the provisions of K.S.A. 75–4215, and amendments thereto. Upon receipt of
each such remittance, the state treasurer shall deposit the entire amount in
the state treasury and shall credit the first $15 of such reinstatement fee to
the judicial branch nonjudicial salary adjustment fund and of the remaining
amount, 29.41% of such moneys to the division of vehicles operating fund,
22.06% to the community alcoholism and intoxication programs fund created by
K.S.A. 41–1126, and amendments thereto, 7.36% to the juvenile alternatives to
detention fund created by K.S.A. 79–4803, and amendments thereto, and 41.17% to
the judicial branch nonjudicial salary adjustment fund created by K.S.A. 2018
Supp. 20–1a15, and amendments thereto.
 
   (d)   The municipal court shall waive the reinstatement fee provided for in
subsection (c), if the failure to comply with a traffic citation was the result
of such person enlisting in or being drafted into the armed services of the
United States, being called into service as a member of a reserve component of
the military service of the United States, or volunteering for such active
duty, or being called into service as a member of the State of Kansas national
guard, or volunteering for such active duty, and being absent from Kansas
because of such military service.
 
(e)   (1)   A person who fails to comply with a traffic citation pursuant to
subsection (a) and who is assessed a reinstatement fee pursuant to subsection
(c) may petition the municipal court at any time to waive payment of the fee,
any additional charge imposed pursuant to subsection (f), or any portion
thereof. If it appears to the satisfaction of the municipal court that payment
of the amount due will impose manifest hardship on the person or the person's
immediate family, the court may waive payment of all or part of the amount due
or modify the method of payment.
 
   (2)   A person who fails to comply with a traffic citation pursuant to
subsection (a), who is assessed a reinstatement fee pursuant to subsection (c),
and who is assessed a fine or court costs for a traffic citation may petition
the municipal court at any time to waive payment of the fine or costs, or any
portion thereof. If it appears to the satisfaction of the municipal court that
payment of the amount due will impose manifest hardship on the person or the
person's immediate family, the court may waive payment of all or part of the
amount due or modify the method of payment.
 
   (3)   The clerk of the municipal court shall make forms available to any
person seeking to petition the court to waive or reduce traffic fines, court
costs, or reinstatement fees.
 
   (f)   Except as provided further, the reinstatement fee established in this
section shall be the only fee collected or moneys in the nature of a fee
collected for such reinstatement. Such fee shall only be established by an act
of the legislature and no other authority is established by law or otherwise to
collect a fee. In the event that on and after July 1, 2019 through June 30,
2025 the Kansas Supreme Court establishes an additional charge pursuant to
subsection (f) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto, the municipal court
shall assess such additional charge in addition to any reinstatement fee
provided in subsection (c) and in the same manner as such reinstatement fee.
 
(g)   (1)   Prior to issuing an order pursuant to this section that notifies
the Division to restrict or suspend a person’s driving privileges, the
municipal court shall consider any request made by the person for one or both
of the following options:
      (A)   Waiver or reduction of fees, fines and court costs and allowing for
payment plans for any fees, fines and court costs; and
 
      (B)   alternative requirements in lieu of restriction or suspension of
driving privileges, including, but not limited to, alcohol or drug treatment or
community service.
 
   (2)   Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to require the court to
make written findings or written payment plan orders.
 
(h)   (1)   Any conviction for a failure to comply pursuant to this section
shall not be considered by the municipal court or the Division in determining
suspended or restricted driving privileges if such conviction is more than five
(5) years old.
 
   (2)   After the expiration of five (5) years from the date of conviction and
pursuant to subsection (h)(2) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto, the
Division will notify by mail any persons whose driving privileges were
suspended or restricted and have not since been restored. The Division 2ill
notify the person that the person may be eligible for driving privileges as a
result of the expiration of the five (5) years from the conviction for the
failure to comply.
 
   (3)   The provisions of this subsection shall be construed and applied
retroactively.
 
      (A)   As used in this section, “substantial compliance” or “substantially
complied” means the person has followed the orders of the municipal court
involving payments of fines, court costs, and any penalties and has not failed
substantially in making payments or satisfying the terms of the court order.
   SECTION 2.   Repeal & Amendment. Section 6-1-1 of Title 6, Chapter 1 of the
Codification of the City of Scott City, as previously existing and amended,
shall be and the same are hereby repealed, to be replaced as specified herein,
upon the effective date of this Ordinance.
 
SECTION 3.   Severability. If any chapter, article, division, section,
paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Ordinance is held to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, for
any reason, such holding shall not affect the constitutionality or validity of
the remaining portions of this Ordinance. The Governing Body hereby declares
that it would have passed this Ordinance and each part or parts hereof
irrespective of the fact that any one part or parts be declared
unconstitutional or invalid. This severability provision shall apply, but not
be limited, to any provisions of the Standard Traffic Ordinance.
 
   SECTION 4.   Headings; Section References. The headings used in this
Ordinance are intended for convenience of reference only and shall not affect
the interpretation or construction of this Ordinance or any part hereof.
 
SECTION 5.   Effective Date; Publication. This Ordinance shall take effect and
be in full force and effect from and after the occurrence of all of the
following: (a) its passage and signature; (b) publication of a summary of this
Ordinance in the Scott County Record, the official city newspaper; and (c)
publication of the full text of this Ordinance on the City’s official website
in accordance with subsection (b) of K.S.A. 12-3007.
 
 
 
 
 
 
[enactment clause appears on next page]
 
 
 
 
 
   APPROVED AND PASSED by the Governing Body of the City of Scott City, Kansas,
this 15th day of September, 2025.
   
 
                                       
                     EVERETT M. GREEN, Mayor
ATTEST:
 
 
                  
RUTH BECKER, City Clerk
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM AND CONTENT:
 
 
                  
JENNIFER CUNNINGHAM, City Attorney
 
 
 
W:\JVC\SCOTT.CITY\Ordinances\STO\2025\STO.2025.Final(Clean).docx
 
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 1285
 
AN ORDINANCE REGULATING PUBLIC OFFENSES WITHIN THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY
OF SCOTT CITY, KANSAS; INCORPORATING BY REFERENCE THE UNIFORM PUBLIC OFFENSE
CODE FOR KANSAS CITIES, 41ST EDITION, WITH CERTAIN OMISSIONS, DELETIONS,
MODIFICATIONS, ADDITIONS, AND AMENDMENTS; PRESCRIBING ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS;
PROVIDING CERTAIN PENALTIES; AMENDING CURRENT CODE SECTION
5-2-1; REPEALING CURRENT CODE SECTION 5-2-1 AND REPLACING IT WITH AN AMENDED
VERSION OF THE SAME; ALL TO THE CODIFICATION OF THE CITY OF SCOTT CITY.
 
      BE IT ORDAINED by the Governing Body of the City of Scott City, Kansas:
 
SECTION 1.   Amendment.  That Code Section 5-2-1 of Title 5, Chapter 2 of the
Codification of the City of Scott City is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
Section 5-2-1. Uniform Public Offense Code.
 
(a)   Incorporating Uniform Public Offense Code. There is hereby incorporated
by reference for the purpose of regulating public offenses within the corporate
limits of the City of Scott City, Kansas, that certain code known as the
Uniform Public Offense Code for Kansas Cities, 41st Edition, prepared and
published in book form by the League of Kansas Municipalities, Topeka, Kansas,
hereinafter referred to as the “Uniform Public Offense Code”, save and except
such articles, sections, parts, or portions as are hereafter omitted, deleted,
modified, added, or amended. One official copy of said Uniform Public Offense
Code shall be marked or stamped "Official Copy as Adopted by Ordinance No.
1285” with all sections or portions thereof intended to be omitted, deleted,
modified, added or amended clearly marked to show any such omission, deletion,
modification, addition, or amendment and to which shall be attached a copy of
this ordinance and filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and
available to the public at all reasonable hours. The police department,
municipal judge, city attorney, city prosecutor, and all administrative
departments of the city charged with enforcement of the ordinance shall be
supplied, at the cost of the City, such number of official copies of such
Uniform Public Offense Code, similarly marked, as may be deemed expedient. All
references to the Uniform Public Offense Code as adopted and incorporated into
this Code shall be in a form designating Section 5-2-1 followed in parenthesis
by the section number of the Uniform Public Offense Code, as incorporated, e.g.
Section 10.5 of the Uniform Public Offense Code as adopted and incorporated
shall be referenced as Section 5-2-1(10.5).
 
(b)   Amendment. Section 1.1 of the Uniform Public Offense Code, also referred
to as 5-2-1(1.1) of the Code is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
   Section 1.1 Definitions.
 
(a)   As used in the Uniform Public Offense Code, as incorporated, and as used
in other public offense ordinances of the City, the words and phrases defined
in Section 1.1 of Article 1 of the Uniform Public Offense Code shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them therein and any such definitions are
hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein, except as
expressly provided in subsection (b) or except when the context otherwise
requires.
 
(b)   Notwithstanding the definitions of Section 1.1 of Article 1 of the
Uniform Public Offense Code as incorporated by subsection (a), the following
words and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them as set forth below:
 
      (1)   Controlled Substance. Any drug, substance or immediate precursor
included in any of the schedules designated in K.S.A. 65-4105, 65-4107, 65-
4109, 65-4111 and 65-4113, and amendments thereto.
 
      (2)   Controlled Substance Analog.
 
(A)   A substance that is intended for human consumption, and at least one of
the following:
 
   (1)   The chemical structure of the substance is substantially similar to
the chemical structure of a controlled substance listed in or added to the
schedules designated in K.S.A. 65-4105 or 65-4107, and amendments thereto;
 
   (2)   the substance has a stimulant, depressant or hallucinogenic effect on
the central nervous system substantially similar to the stimulant, depressant
or hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system of a controlled
substance included in the schedules designated in K.S.A. 65-4105 or 65-4107,
and amendments thereto; or
 
   (3)   with respect to a particular individual, such individual represents or
intends the substance to have a stimulant, depressant or hallucinogenic effect
on the central nervous system substantially similar to the stimulant,
depressant or hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system of a
controlled substance included in the schedules designated in K.S.A. 65-
4105 or 65-4107, and amendments thereto.
 
(B)   “Controlled substance analog” does not include:
 
   (1)   A controlled substance;
 
   (2)   a substance for which there is an approved new drug application; or
 
   (3)   a substance with respect to which an exemption is in effect for
investigational use by a particular person under Section 505 of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. § 355, to the extent conduct with
respect to the substance is permitted by the exemption.
 
      (3)   Distribute. The actual or constructive transfer from one person to
another of some item whether or not there is an agency relationship. Distribute
includes, but is not limited to, sale, offer for sale, furnishing, buying for,
delivering, giving, or any act that causes or is intended to cause some item to
be transferred from one person to another. Distribute does not include acts of
administering, dispensing or prescribing a controlled substance as authorized
by the Kansas Pharmacy Act, the Uniform Controlled Substances Act, or otherwise
authorized by law or ordinance.
   
(c)   Amendment. Section 6.7 of the Uniform Public Offense Code, also referred
to as 5-2-1(6.7) of the Code is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
Section 6.7. Criminal Trespass.
 
(a)    Criminal trespass is entering or remaining upon or in any:
 
(1)   Land, non-navigable body of water, structure, vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft by a person who knows such person is not authorized or privileged to
do so, and:
 
(A)   Such person enters or remains therein in defiance of an order not to
enter or to leave such premises or property personally communicated to such
person by the owner thereof or other authorized person, including, but not
limited to, a law enforcement officer as provided in subsection (c) of this
section;
 
(B)    Such premises or property are posted as provided in K.S.A. 32-1013, and
amendments thereto, or in any other manner reasonably likely to come to the
attention of intruders, or are locked or fenced or otherwise enclosed, or shut
or secured against passage or entry; or
 
(C)    Such person enters or remains therein in defiance of a restraining order
issued by a court of competent jurisdiction and the restraining order has been
personally served upon the person so restrained.
 
(2)   Public or private land or structure in a manner that interferes with
access to or from any health care facility by a person who knows such person is
not authorized or privileged to do so and such person enters or remains thereon
or therein in defiance of an order not to enter or to leave such land or
structure personally communicated to such person by the owner of the health
care facility or other authorized person.
 
   (b)   (1)   This section shall not apply to a land surveyor, licensed
pursuant to article 70 of chapter 74 of the Kansas Statutes Annotated, and
amendments thereto, and such surveyor’s authorized agents and employees who
enter upon lands, waters, and other premises in the making of a survey; or
 
      (2)    Railroad Property as defined in K.S.A. 21-5809, and amendments
thereto, or nuclear generating facility as defined in K.S.A. 66-2302 and
amendments thereto.
 
   (c)   Criminal trespass is a Class B violation. Upon a conviction of a
violation of subsection (a)(1)(C), a person shall be sentenced to not less than
48 consecutive hours of imprisonment which shall be served either before or as
a condition of any grant of probation or suspension, reduction of sentence or
parole.
 
   (d)   Upon the request of any owner or other authorized person of any
premises or property, any law enforcement officer shall be authorized to
personally serve or verbally communicate to any other person a written trespass
warning, verbal trespass warning, or any other written or verbal order to leave
or not to enter such premises or property.
 
(d)   Amendment. Section 6.7.2 of the Uniform Public Offense Code, also
referred to as 5-2-1(6.7.2) of the Code is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
   Section 6.7.2. Trespassing on a Critical Infrastructure Facility.
 
   (a)   Trespassing on a critical infrastructure facility is, without consent
of the owner or the owner's agent, knowingly entering or remaining in:
 
(1)   A critical infrastructure facility; or
 
(2)   any property containing a critical infrastructure facility, if such
property is completely enclosed by a fence or other physical barrier that is
obviously designed to exclude intruders or is clearly marked with a sign or
signs that are posted on the property that are reasonably likely to come to the
attention of intruders and indicate that entry is forbidden without site
authorization.
 
   (b)   Trespassing on a critical infrastructure facility is a class A
violation.
 
   (c)    Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent:
 
(1)   An owner or operator of a critical infrastructure facility that has been
damaged from pursuing any other remedy in law or equity; or
(2)    A person who violates the provisions of this section from being
prosecuted for, convicted of and punished for any other offense in Article 6 of
the Uniform Public Offense Code, as may be amended by Section 5-2-1 of the
Code, and amendments thereto.
 
   (d)    As used in this section, “critical infrastructure facility” means
any:
 
(1)    Petroleum or alumina refinery;
 
(2)    electric generation facility, substation, switching station, electrical
control center, electric distribution or transmission lines, or associated
equipment infrastructure;
 
(3)   chemical, polymer or rubber manufacturing facility;
 
(4)   water supply diversion, production, treatment, storage or distribution
facility and appurtenances, including, but not limited to, underground
pipelines and a wastewater treatment plant or pump station;
 
(5)   natural gas compressor station;
 
(6)   liquid natural gas or propane terminal or storage facility;
 
(7)   facility or any aboveground or belowground line, cable or wire that is
used for wireline, broadband or wireless telecommunications or video services
infrastructure, including:
 
(A)    Backup power supplies;
 
(B)   cable television headend;
 
(C)   antennas, radio transceivers, towers, wireless support structures, small
cell facilities and any associated support structures and accessory equipment;
and
 
(D)   related equipment buildings, cabinets and storage sheds, shelters or
similar structures;
 
(8)   port, railroad switching yard, railroad tracks, trucking terminal or
other freight transportation facility;
 
(9)   gas processing plant, including a plant used in the processing, treatment
or fractionation of natural gas, propane or natural gas liquids;
 
(10)   transmission facility used by a federally licensed radio or television
station;
 
(11)   steelmaking facility that uses an electric arc furnace to make steel;
 
(12)   facility identified and regulated by the United States department of
homeland security chemical facility anti-terrorism standards program, a
facility operated by the office of laboratory services under the supervision of
the secretary of health and environment pursuant to K.S.A. 75-5608, and
amendments thereto, the national bio and agro-defense facility or the
biosecurity research institute at Kansas state university;
 
(13)   dam that is regulated by the state as a hazard class B or C dam or by
the federal government;
 
(14)   natural gas distribution utility facility or natural gas transmission
facility, including, but not limited to, pipeline interconnections, a city gate
or town border station, metering station, belowground or aboveground piping, a
regular station or a natural gas storage facility;
 
(15)   crude oil, including y-grade or natural gas liquids, or refined products
storage and distribution facility, including, but not limited to, valve sites,
pipeline interconnections, pump station, metering station, belowground or
aboveground pipeline or piping and truck loading or offloading facility; or
 
(16)   portion of any belowground or aboveground oil, gas, hazardous liquid or
chemical pipeline, tank, railroad facility or any other storage facility that
is enclosed by a fence or other physical barrier or is clearly marked with
signs prohibiting trespassing, that are obviously designed to exclude
intruders.
 
   (e)   Upon the request of any owner or other authorized person of any
premises or property, any law enforcement officer shall be authorized to
personally serve or verbally communicate to any other person a written trespass
warning, verbal trespass warning, or any other written or verbal order to leave
or not to enter such premises or property.
 
(e)   Amendment. Section 7.15 of the Uniform Public Offense Code, also referred
to as 5-2-1(7.15) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
   
   Section 7.15. Intimidation of a Witness or Victim.  
 
(a)   Intimidation of a witness or victim is preventing or dissuading, or
attempting to prevent or dissuade, with an intent to vex, annoy, harm or injure
in any way another person or an intent to thwart or interfere in any manner
with the orderly administration of justice:
 
(1)    Any witness or victim from attending or giving testimony at any civil or
criminal trial, proceeding or inquiry authorized by law; or
 
(2)    Any witness, victim or person acting on behalf of a victim from:
 
(A)    Making any report of the victimization of a victim to any law
enforcement officer, prosecutor, probation officer, parole officer,
correctional officer, community correctional services officer, judicial
officer, the secretary for children and families, the secretary for aging and
disability services, or any agent or representative of either secretary, or any
person required to make a report pursuant to K.S.A. 38-2223, and amendments
thereto;
 
(B)    Causing a complaint, indictment or information to be sought and
prosecuted or causing a violation of probation, parole or assignment to a
community correctional services program to be reported and prosecuted, and
assisting in its prosecution;
 
(C)    Causing a civil action to be filed and prosecuted and assisting in its
prosecution; or
 
(D)    Arresting or causing or seeking the arrest of any person in connection
with the victimization of a victim.
 
(b)    Intimidation of a witness or victim is a Class B person violation.
 
(c)    As used in this section:
 
(1)    Civil injury or loss means any injury or loss for which a civil remedy
is provided under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United
States.
 
(2)    Victim means any individual:
 
(A)    Against whom any crime under the laws of this state, any other state or
the United States or any ordinance violation under the code of any city is
being, has been or is attempted to be committed; or
 
(B)    Who suffers a civil injury or loss; and
 
(3)    Witness means any individual:
 
(A)    Who has knowledge of the existence or nonexistence of facts relating to
any civil or criminal trial, proceeding or inquiry authorized by law;
 
(B)    Whose declaration under oath is received or has been received as
evidence for any purpose;
(C)    Who has reported any crime or any civil injury or loss to any law
enforcement officer, prosecutor, probation officer, parole officer,
correctional officer, community correctional services officer or judicial
officer;
 
(D)    Who has been served with a subpoena issued under the authority of a
municipal court or any court or agency of this state, any other state or the
United States; or
 
(E)    Who is believed by the offender to be an individual described in this
subsection.
 
(f)   Amendment. Section 9.9.3 of the Uniform Public Offense Code, also
referred to as 5-2-1(9.9.3) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
   Section 9.9.3. Unlawful Distribution of Controlled Substances.  
 
(a)   No person shall distribute or possess with the intent to distribute a
controlled substance or a controlled substance analog designated in K.S.A. 65-
4113, and amendments thereto, to any person who is eighteen (18) years of age
or older.
 
   (b)   Violation of subsection (a) is a Class A violation.
 
(g)   Amendment. Section 9.9.4 of the Uniform Public Offense Code, also
referred to as 5-2-1(9.9.4) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
   Section 9.9.4. Unlawful Possession of Controlled Substances.  
(a)   No person shall possess any of the controlled substances or controlled
substance analogs thereof found in subsection (b) of K.S.A. 21-5706, and
amendments thereto, except as provided in subsection (b) of this section.
 
(b)    This section shall not apply if the substance involved is marijuana, as
designated in K.S.A. 65-4105(d), and amendments thereto, or
tetrahydrocannabinols, as designated in K.S.A. 65-4105(h), and amendments
thereto.
 
(c)    Violation of subsection (a) is a Class A violation.
 
(d)   A law enforcement officer shall not take a person into custody based
solely on the commission of an offense described in subsection (a) if the law
enforcement officer, after making a reasonable determination and considering
the facts and surrounding circumstances, reasonably believes that the person:
 
(1)    (A)   Initiated contact with a law enforcement officer, law enforcement
agency, or emergency medical services and requested medical assistance on the
person’s own behalf because the person reasonably believed they needed medical
assistance as a result of the use of a controlled substance; and
 
   (B)   cooperated with law enforcement officers and emergency medical
services personnel in providing such medical assistance;
 
(2)    (A)   was a person who rendered aid to another person who reasonably
appeared to need medical assistance as a result of the use of a controlled
substance or initiated contact with a law enforcement officer, law enforcement
agency or emergency medical services and requested medical assistance for
another person who reasonably appeared to need medical assistance as a result
of the use of a controlled substance;
 
   (B)    provided such person’s full name and any other relevant information
that is necessary to provide the medical assistance described in subsection (d)
(2)(A) as requested by law enforcement or emergency medical services;
   (C)    remained at the scene with the person who reasonably appeared to need
medical assistance until emergency medical services personnel and law
enforcement officers arrived; and
 
   (D)    cooperated with emergency medical services personnel and law
enforcement officers in providing such medical assistance; or
 
(3)    (A)   was the person who reasonably appeared to need medical assistance
as a result of the use of a controlled substance as described in subsection (d)
(2)(A); and
 
   (B)   cooperated with emergency medical services personnel and law
enforcement officers in providing such medical assistance.
 
(e)   (1)   Except as provided in subparagraph (e)(2), each person who meets
the criteria in subsection (d) is immune from criminal prosecution for a
violation of subsection (a).
 
   (2)    No person is immune from criminal prosecution as provided in
subsection (e)(1) if the quantity of controlled substances found at the scene
of the encounter with law enforcement would be sufficient to create a
rebuttable presumption of an intent to distribute as described in subsection
(e) of K.S.A. 21-5705, and amendments thereto.
 
(f)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a person seeking
medical assistance during the course of the execution of an arrest warrant or
search warrant or a lawful search.
(g)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude a person who is
immune from criminal prosecution pursuant to this section from being prosecuted
based on evidence obtained from an independent source.
 
(h)   A person shall not be allowed to initiate or maintain an action against a
law enforcement officer, or the officer’s employer based on the officer’s
compliance or failure to comply with this section. Except in cases of reckless
or intentional misconduct, an officer shall be immune from liability for
arresting a person who is later determined to be immune from prosecution
pursuant to this section.
 
(h)   Amendment. Section 9.9.6 of the Uniform Public Offense Code, also
referred to as 5-2-1(9.9.6) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
   Section 9.9.6. Distribution of Non-Controlled Substance.  
 
(a)   No person shall distribute or possess with the intent to distribute any
substance, which is not a controlled substance, to any person who is eighteen
(18) years of age or older:
 
(1)   Upon an express representation that the substance is a controlled
substance or that the substance is of such nature or appearance that the
recipient will be able to distribute the substance as a controlled substance;
or
 
(2)    Under circumstances which would give a reasonable person reason to
believe that the substance is a controlled substance.
 
(b)   Violation of subsection (a) is a Class A nonperson violation.
 
(c)   If any one of the following factors is established, there shall be a
presumption that distribution of a substance was under circumstances which
would give a reasonable person reason to believe that a substance is a
controlled substance:
 
(1)   The substance was packaged in a manner normally used for the illegal
distribution of controlled substances;
 
(2)   The distribution of the substance included an exchange of or demand for
money or other consideration for distribution of the substance and the amount
of the consideration was substantially in excess of the reasonable value of the
substance; or
 
(3)    The physical appearance of the capsule or other material containing the
substance is substantially identical to a specific controlled substance.
 
(i)   Amendment. Section 10.1 of the Uniform Public Offense Code, also referred
to as 5-2-1(10.1) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
   Section 10.1. Criminal Use of Weapons.
 
(a)   Criminal use of weapons is knowingly:
 
(1)   Selling, manufacturing, purchasing or possessing any bludgeon, sand club,
or metal knuckles;
 
(2)   Possessing with intent to use the same unlawfully against another, a
slungshot, throwing star, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument
of like character; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed as
to prohibit the possession, carrying, or use of a cutting instrument pursuant
to K.S.A. 12-16,143; or
 
(3)   Setting a spring gun.
 
(b)   Criminal use of weapons is a Class A violation.
 
(c)   Subsections (a)(1) and (a)(2) shall not apply to:
 
(1)   Law enforcement officers, or any person summoned by any such officers to
assist in making arrests or preserving the peace while actually engaged in
assisting such officer;
 
(2)   Wardens, superintendents, directors, security personnel and keepers of
prisons, penitentiaries, jails and other institutions for the detention of
persons accused or convicted of crime, while acting within the scope of their
authority;
 
(3)   Members of the armed services or reserve forces of the United States or
the Kansas national guard while in the performance of their official duty; or
 
(4)   The manufacture of, transportation to, or sale of weapons to a person
authorized under subsections (c)(1), (c)(2) and (c)(3) to possess such weapons.
   
(j)   Amendment. Section 10.5 of the Uniform Public Offense Code, also referred
to as 5-2-1(10.5) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
   
   Section 10.5. Unlawful Discharge of a Firearm.  
 
(a)   Unlawful discharge of a firearm is the discharge of a firearm within or
into the corporate limits of any city.
 
(b)   This section shall not apply to the discharge of any firearm within or
into the corporate limits of any city if:
 
(1)   The firearm is discharged in the lawful defense of one’s person, another
person or one’s property;
 
(2)   The firearm is discharged at a private or public shooting range;
 
(3)   The firearm is discharged by authorized law enforcement or animal control
officers;
(4)   The firearm is discharged by special permit of the chief of police or by
the sheriff when the city has no police department;
 
(5)   The firearm is discharged using blanks; or
      
(6)   The firearm is discharged in lawful self-defense or defense of another
person against an animal attack.
 
(c)   A violation of this section shall be a Class B violation.
 
   SECTION 2.   Repeal & Amendment. Section 5-2-1 of Title 5, Chapter 2 of the
Codification of the City of Scott City, as previously existing and amended,
shall be and the same are hereby repealed, to be replaced as specified herein,
upon the effective date of this Ordinance.
 
SECTION 3.   Severability. If any chapter, article, division, section,
paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Ordinance is held to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, for
any reason, such holding shall not affect the constitutionality or validity of
the remaining portions of this Ordinance. The Governing Body hereby declares
that it would have passed this Ordinance and each part or parts hereof
irrespective of the fact that any one part or parts be declared
unconstitutional or invalid. This severability provision shall apply, but not
be limited, to any provisions of the Uniform Public Offense Code.
 
   SECTION 4.   Headings; Section References. The headings used in this
Ordinance are intended for convenience of reference only and shall not affect
the interpretation or construction of this Ordinance or any part hereof.
 
SECTION 5.   Effective Date; Publication. This Ordinance shall take effect and
be in full force and effect from and after the occurrence of all of the
following: (a) its passage and signature; (b) publication of a summary of this
Ordinance in the Scott County Record, the official city newspaper; and (c)
publication of the full text of this Ordinance on the City’s official website
in accordance with subsection (b) of K.S.A. 12-3007.
 
   APPROVED AND PASSED by the Governing Body of the City of Scott City, Kansas,
this 15th day of September, 2025.
   
 
                                       
                     EVERETT M. GREEN, Mayor
ATTEST:
 
 
                  
RUTH BECKER, City Clerk
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM AND CONTENT:
 
 
                  
JENNIFER CUNNINGHAM, City Attorney
 
 
 
 
 
 
W:\JVC\SCOTT.CITY\Ordinances\UPOC\2025\UPOC.2025.Final(Clean).docx
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 1011
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE RECODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF SCOTT
CITY, KANSAS, PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN OTHER ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED
THEREIN, EXCEPTING CERTAIN ORDINANCES FROM REPEAL AND SAVING CERTAIN ACCRUED
RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   BE IT, THEREFORE, ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF SCOTT CITY,
KANSAS:
   SECTION 1: The recodification of ordinances of the City of Scott City,
Kansas, as authorized by K.S.A. 12-3014 and 12-2015, as set out in the
following titles, Titles 1 through 11, and titled the "Code of the City of
Scott City, Kansas, 1998" is hereby adopted and ordained as the "Code of the
City of Scott City, Kansas, 1998" and said recodification shall become
effective upon publication of not less than three (3) copies of said code in
loose-leaf book form.
   SECTION 2: All ordinances and parts of ordinances of a general nature passed
prior to January 4, 1999, up to and including Ordinance No. 1007, in force and
effect at the date of publication of not less than three (3) copies of the
"Code of the City of Scott City, Kansas, 1998", and this ordinance, are hereby
repealed as of the date of publication of said code except as hereinafter
provided.
   SECTION 3: In construing this ordinance, the following ordinances shall not
be considered or held to be ordinances of a general nature:
   A. Ordinances pertaining to the acquisition of property or interests in
property by gift, purchase, devise, bequest, appropriation, or condemnation;
   B. Ordinances opening, dedicating, widening, vacating, or narrowing streets,
avenues, alleys, and boulevards;
   C. Ordinances establishing and changing grades of streets, avenues, alleys,
and boulevards;
   D. Ordinances naming or changing the names of streets, avenues, alleys, and
boulevards;
   E. Ordinances authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   F. Ordinances creating districts for public improvements of whatsoever kind
or nature;
   G. Ordinances levying general taxes;
   H. Ordinances levying special assessments or taxes;
   I. Ordinances granting any rights, privileges, easements or franchises
therein mentioned to any person, firm, or corporation;
   J. Ordinances authorizing the issuance of bonds and other instruments of
indebtedness by the City;
   K. Ordinances authorizing contracts;
   L. Ordinances establishing the limits of the City or pertaining to
annexation or exclusion of territory;
   M. Ordinances relating to compensation of officials, officers, and employees
of the City;
   N. Ordinances of a temporary nature;
Provided, that the above enumeration of exceptions shall not be held or deemed
to be exclusive, it being the purpose and intention to exempt from repeal any
and all ordinances not of a general nature and general ordinances specifically
excepted by this section.
   SECTION 4: The arrangement and classification of the several titles,
chapters, articles, and sections of the code adopted by Section 1 of this
ordinance and the headnotes and footnotes at the end of the section, are made
for the purpose of convenience and orderly arrangement, and do not constitute a
part of the ordinances, and therefore, no implication or presumption of
legislative intent or construction is to be drawn therefrom.
   SECTION 5: The repeal of ordinances as provided in Section 2 hereof, shall
not affect any rights acquired, fines, penalties, forfeitures or liabilities
incurred thereunder, or actions involving any of the provisions of said
ordinances or parts thereof. Said ordinances above repealed are hereby
continued in force and effect after the passage, approval and publication of
this ordinance for the purpose of such rights, fines, penalties, forfeitures,
liabilities and actions therefore.
   SECTION 6: If for any reason any title, chapter, article, section,
subsection, sentence, portion or part of the "Code of the City of Scott City,
Kansas, 1998" or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is
declared to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision will not affect other
provisions or applications of the ordinance which can be given effect without
the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this
ordinance are declared to be severable.
   SECTION 7: This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after
the publication of the "Code of the City of Scott City, Kansas, 1998" as
provided in K.S.A. 12-3015.
Passed this 5th day of April, 1999.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6c36c9bf1afc94a67cc7685522fe99f7b8e0c6b9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-963.png] 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6c36c9bf1afc94a67cc7685522fe99f7b8e0c6b9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-965.png]
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
Official City Code   1
Saving Clause   2
Definitions   3
General Penalty   4
Mayor And City Council   5
Officers And Employees   6
City Elections   7
Public Bidding Procedure   8
Municipal Court   9
Public Record Copies; Fees   10
Insurance Proceeds From Building Damage   11
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the City Council, this City Code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the Official City Code of Scott City. This City
Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the CODIFICATION OF THE CITY OF
SCOTT CITY and is hereby published by authority of the City Council and shall
be supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the City as
provided in Section
1-1-3  of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal documents. (1998 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1998 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this City Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the City Code. (1998 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The City Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the City Clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of the City Code shall make every effort to
maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the office of the City
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the City and shall be
returned to the office of the City Clerk when directed so to do by order of the
City Council. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this
City Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this City Code or
are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the City; and all special ordinances.
   B.   The repeal of the ordinances as provided in subsection A of this
Section, shall not affect any debt or fee which is accrued, any duty imposed,
any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding commenced under or by virtue
of the ordinances repealed or the term of office of any person holding office
at the time these ordinances take effect; nor shall the repeal of any ordinance
have the effect of reviving any ordinance heretofore repealed or superseded.
(1998 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by virtue of Section
1-2-1 of this Chapter, excepting as the City Code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case, this City Code shall be considered as amending
such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1998 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceedings, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the City
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
City under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this City Code. (1998 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this City Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this City Code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
City Code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been
changed in the content of this City Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1998 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   CITY: Scott City, County of Scott, State of Kansas.
   CITY COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the Mayor and Councilmembers of
Scott City.
   CODE: The City Code of Scott City.
   COUNTY: The County of Scott, State of Kansas.
   EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of Scott
City".
   FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the City, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this Code.
   OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of Scott City".
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right or interest therein.
   RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STATE: The State of Kansas.
   STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this
Code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for
the purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (1998 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the City Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
A. Classification Of Violations; Confinement:
      1.   Specified: For the purpose of sentencing, the following classes of
violations and the punishment and the terms of confinement authorized for each
class are established:
         a.   Class A, the sentence for which shall be a definite term of
confinement in the County jail, which shall be fixed by the court and shall not
exceed one year.
         b.   Class B, the sentence for which shall be a definite term of
confinement in the County jail, which shall be fixed by the court and shall not
exceed six (6) months.
         c.   Class C, the sentence for which shall be a definite term of
confinement in the County jail, which shall be fixed by the court and shall not
exceed one month.
         d.   Unclassified violations, which shall include all crimes declared
to be violations without specification as to class, the sentence for which
shall be in accordance with the sentence specified in the statute that defines
the crime. If no penalty is provided in such law, the sentence shall be the
same penalty as provided herein for a Class C violation.
   B.   Fines:
      1.   Specified: A person who has been convicted of a violation may, in
addition to or instead of the confinement authorized by law, be sentenced to
pay a fine which shall be fixed by the court as follows:
         a.   For a Class A violation, a sum not exceeding two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
         b.   For a Class B violation, a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
         c.   For a Class C violation, a sum not exceeding five hundred dollars
($500.00).
         d.   For an unclassified violation, any sum authorized by the statute
that defines the crime. If no penalty is provided in such law, the fine shall
not exceed the fine provided herein for a Class C violation.
      2.   Alternative: As an alternative to any of the above fines, the fine
imposed may be fixed at any greater sum not exceeding double the pecuniary gain
derived from the crime by the offender. (1998 Code)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalty provided in this Chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this City Code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section.
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this City Code, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this City Code and there shall be no
fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this
Chapter shall apply. (1998 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this City Code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Defined
1-5-2: Powers, Generally Described
1-5-3: Quorum Defined
1-5-4: Meetings
1-5-5: Compensation
1-5-6: Ordinances
1-5-7: Vacancy In Office Of Mayor
1-5-1: DEFINED:
"City council", as used in this code, is defined as the mayor and council
members of the city. (1983 Code § 1-201)
1-5-2: POWERS, GENERALLY DESCRIBED:
The city council shall have all powers granted by the laws of the state to
cities of the second class. The mayor shall have all powers granted by the laws
of the State of Kansas. (1983 Code § 1-202; amd. Ord. 1208, 9-21-2020)
1-5-3: QUORUM DEFINED:
A "quorum" is a number of persons legally necessary to do business. A number
less than a quorum is authorized to adjourn the meeting from day to day and may
compel the attendance of absentees. A majority of the council members elected
shall constitute a quorum for the conducting of the business of the city
council. (1983 Code § 1-206)
1-5-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Presiding Officer: The mayor shall preside at all meetings of the city
council. (1983 Code § 1-207)
   B.   Regular: The city council shall hold a regular meeting on the first and
third Monday of every month at six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M. in the council
chamber at the city hall. If any such day shall fall upon a city designated
holiday, such meeting will be held on the next succeeding business day.
   C.   Special:
      1.   Request; Number Of Council Members: A special meeting is one held at
a time other than set for the regular meeting, and for some special purpose
which is urgent in its nature. The mayor, at his or her discretion, may call a
special meeting after receiving the written request of three (3) or more
council members. The acting mayor (the president of the city council) may also
call a special meeting on the written request of three (3) or more council
members even though the acting mayor is one of the council members signing the
request.
      2.   Object, Purpose; Business Specified In Request: The request must
specify the object and purpose of the meeting, and must be read at the meeting
and entered at length on the journal. Only the business specified in the
request can be considered at the special meeting.
      3.   Discretion Of Mayor To Request: The mayor is not required to call a
special meeting and may or may not call it after receiving a request.
      4.   Call Not Required In Writing: The call may not necessarily be in
writing. (1983 Code § 1-205) (Ord. 855, 8-6-1984; amd. Ord. 1253, 2-21-2023)
1-5-5: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Meeting Attendance Fees: Elected members of the city council and the
elected mayor shall be allowed and paid a fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00)
for each lawfully called regular meeting of the city council actually attended.
   B.   Special Meeting Attendance Fees: Elected members of the city council,
the elected mayor, the appointed city clerk and city attorney shall be allowed
and paid a fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each lawfully called
special meeting actually attended.
   C.   Mayor: The mayor shall be paid an additional fee of one hundred dollars
($100.00) per month for each month served as mayor. (Ord. 1136, 2-4-2013)
1-5-6: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Powers; Purpose: The city council shall have the power to pass, amend
or repeal ordinances which are not in violation or conflict with the laws of
the state, for the purpose of:
      1.   Levying taxes and making expenditures and controlling the financial
matters of the city.
      2.   The preservation of peace.
      3.   Promoting and controlling business and commerce.
      4.   Protecting the citizens from vice and immorality.
      5.   Promoting the health and welfare of the citizens.
      6.   Carrying into effect the above enumerated powers.
   B.   Consideration: All ordinances of a city shall be considered at a public
meeting of the governing body except as otherwise herein provided or where
state law provides a different procedure for an ordinance for a specific
purpose.
   C.   Passage: The vote on any ordinance, except as otherwise provided
herein, shall be by yeas and nays, which shall be entered on the journal by the
clerk. No ordinance shall be valid unless a majority of all the members elect
of the council vote in favor thereof; provided, that where the number of
favorable votes is one less than required, the mayor shall have power to cast
the deciding vote in favor of the ordinance.
   D.   Subject; Title: No ordinance shall be passed containing more than one
subject and the title shall clearly express the subject to which the ordinance
pertains.
   E.   Ordaining Clause: Every ordinance will have the following clause
following the ordinance title: "Be it ordained by the Governing Body of the
City of Scott City, Kansas".
   F.   Mayor Approval; Veto: The mayor has the power to approve or veto any
ordinance, except he cannot veto an appropriation ordinance or any ordinance on
which he has cast the deciding vote. An ordinance must be passed over his veto.
   G.   Verification Of Passage: All ordinances passed as provided in this
section shall bear the following:
PASSED by the Governing Body this            day of                      ,
20     .
         
City Clerk      Mayor
(Ord. 1106, 11-2-2009)
1-5-7: VACANCY IN OFFICE OF MAYOR:
When a vacancy occurs in the office of the mayor because of disability, the
president of the city council for the time being exercises the office of the
mayor, with all rights, privileges and jurisdiction of the mayor until the
disability is removed, or in case of temporary absence, until the mayor
returns. In the case of a vacancy, other than a temporary absence or
disability, the president of the city council exercising the office of mayor
becomes the mayor. (1983 Code § 1-208)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Appointment; Compensation; Term
1-6-2: Oath Of Office
1-6-3: Bonds Of Officers
1-6-4: Duties Of City Officers
1-6-5: Deferred Compensation Plan
1-6-6: Employee Benefits Contribution Fund
1-6-7: City Administrator 
1-6-1: APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION; TERM:
At the first meeting in February of each year, the mayor appoints, by and with
the consent and confirmation of the city council, the following officers: a
municipal judge, a city clerk, a chief of police, a fire chief, a city
attorney, a superintendent of public works, a superintendent of parks, a
building inspector and any other officers deemed necessary. The city council
shall by ordinance specify the duties and compensation of the office holders,
and by ordinance may abolish any office created by the city council whenever
deemed expedient. The officers shall serve at the pleasure of the city council
and may be removed, with or without cause, by a majority vote of the city
council. (Ord. 1178, 12-5-2016)
1-6-2: OATH OF OFFICE:
   A.   Required: All officers of the city, elected or appointed, shall take
and subscribe or sign an oath or affirmation as follows:
I do solemnly swear (affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the United
States, and the Constitution of the State of Kansas, and faithfully discharge
the duties of            , City of Scott City, so help me God.
   B.   Forms; Maintenance: The city shall supply the necessary forms for the
purpose of taking said oath, and said signed or subscribed oaths shall be kept
by the city clerk. (1983 Code § 1-401)
1-6-3: BONDS OF OFFICERS:
   A.   Purpose: All bonds required by any provision of this section shall be
security for the faithful performance of all duties, whether required by the
laws of the state or the city council, of the office held by the officer giving
such work. (1983 Code § 1-404)
   B.   Required; Amount: The following city officers shall, prior to entering
their respective offices, give a good and sufficient corporate surety bond to
the city, approved by the city council, in the following amounts:
      1.   City Clerk: The city clerk shall have a bond of fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00).
      2.   Assistant City Clerk: The assistant city clerk shall have a bond of
fourteen thousand dollars ($14,000.00).
      3.   City Treasurer: The city treasurer shall have a bond of two hundred
thousand dollars ($200,000.00).
      4.   Municipal Judge: The municipal judge shall have a bond of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
      5.   Building Inspector: The building inspector shall have a bond of
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00).
      6.   Municipal Court Clerk: The municipal court clerk shall have a bond
of fourteen thousand dollars ($14,000.00).
      7.   City Administrator: The city administrator shall have a bond of
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00).
   C.   Additional Officers; Power Of City Council: The city council shall have
the power to require a bond given by any other officer, elected or appointed,
in an amount the city council deems sufficient. (1983 Code § 1-403) (Ord. 883,
11-3-1986; amd. 1998 Code; Ord. 1216, 6-7-2021; Ord. 1252, 2-6-2023)
1-6-4: DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS:
   A.   City Clerk: The duties of the City Clerk shall be as follows:
      1.   Required By State Law: Perform all duties required by the laws of
the State to be performed by him or her.
      2.   Records Maintenance: Keep a record of all City Council proceedings,
preserve in suitable files in his or her office all public documents, papers,
oaths and records belonging to the City, and preserve all deeds, mortgages,
contracts, judgments, bonds, notes and causes of action belonging to the City.
      3.   Official Correspondence: Carry on all official correspondence of the
City in a prompt manner and report on the same to the City Council at its
regular or special meetings.
      4.   Administer Oaths; City Seal: Administer all oaths required by the
City and have charge of the Official Seal of the City and affix it to all
documents required by law or ordinance to bear the Seal.
      5.   Receive And Present Claims: Receive all claims against the City and
present them to the City Council for its consideration at each regular meeting.
      6.   Ordinance Book: Keep an ordinance book, in which will be entered
every ordinance passed by the City Council, showing date of passage, date and
proof of publication, and the final vote on passage.
      7.   Payment Of Authorized Claims: Pay by check or warrant any claim
against the City when authorized by ordinance passed by the City Council.
      8.   Accountant For Funds: Be the accountant for the City and keep a
separate account of each fund of the City, whether derived from taxation or
otherwise. No money belonging to one fund shall be transferred to another fund,
or be placed to the credit of another fund, unless there be lawful authority
for the same.
      9.   Report Financial Condition: Report to the City Council at its
regular meeting each month in regard to the financial condition of each fund of
the City so that the City Council may not create debts nor authorize the
issuance of warrants in violation of the budget law or cash basis law relating
to the duties of City officers.
      10.   Bond Records: Keep an accurate account of all bonds issued by the
City, recording them by date, number, amount thereof, rate of interest, number
of each coupon, amount of each, to whom payable, where payable and when
cancelled upon return of the same to the City.
      11.   Withholding Agent: Act as withholding agent of the City for the
purpose of the Federal Revenue Act and shall receive from each officer or
employee of the City the withholding certificate required by virtue of said
Act. Maintain a suitable record of the sums so withheld from wages and salaries
and remit the same to the Director of Internal Revenue at such times and in
such forms as may be required.
      12.   Other Required Duties: Perform all other duties required of him or
her by the City Council or this Code. (1983 Code § 1-302)
   B.   City Treasurer: The duties of the City Treasurer shall be as follows:
      1.   Required By State Law: Perform all duties required by the laws of
the State to be performed by him or her.
      2.   Receive And Deposit Money; Issue Receipts: Receive and deposit in
the name of the City all monies received to him or her, and give receipts
therefor. A copy of said receipt shall be given the City Clerk, and a copy
shall be retained by the City Treasurer.
      3.   Pay Out Funds: Pay out funds of the City only upon warrants or
checks properly signed and attested to by the City Clerk.
      4.   Records Maintenance: Keep proper and complete records of all monies
received and disbursed by him, showing date of receipt or disbursement, and the
party from whom received or party to whom disbursed.
      5.   Statement Preparation And Publication: Prepare and publish, or cause
to be prepared and published, a statement as required by Kansas Statutes
Annotated section 12-1608 at such times required by section 12-1608. (1983 Code
§
   C.   City Attorney: The duties of the City Attorney shall be as follows:
      1.   Required By State Law: Perform all duties required by the laws of
the State to be performed by him.
      2.   Prosecute And Defend: Appear to prosecute or defend in all actions
to which the City is a party.
      3.   Draft Legal Documents: Draft all ordinances, contracts, bonds,
conveyances and all other documents legal in nature.
      4.   Advice On Legal Matters: Advise the City Council and officers of the
City in all legal matters pertaining to the City.
      5.   Other Required Services: Perform other services of a legal nature
required of him by the City Council or this Code. (1983 Code § 1-305)
   D.   Superintendent Of Public Works: The duties of the Superintendent of
Public Works shall be as follows:
      1.   Required By State Law: Perform all duties required by the laws of
the State to be performed by him.
      2.   Public Grounds; Repair And Free From Obstructions: Keep in repair
and free from obstructions of any kind, all streets, alleys, sewers, water
mains, sidewalks and public grounds of the City, except public parks.
      3.   Employ Persons And Equipment: Employ such persons and equipment as
is authorized by the City Council to perform the duties he is charged with.
      4.   Account For Materials, Equipment And Labor: Account to the City
Council for all materials, equipment and labor used by him or in his hands, in
his capacity of Superintendent of Public Works.
      5.   Other Required Duties: Perform all other duties required of him by
the City Council or this Code.
   E.   Superintendent Of Parks: The duties of the Superintendent of Parks
shall be as follows:
      1.   Required By State Law: Perform all duties required by the laws of
the State to be performed by him.
      2.   Public Parks, Care And Upkeep: Be in charge of the care and upkeep
of all City owned parks, including play areas, facilities and restrooms and see
that they are kept in good repair in a clean and sanitary condition.
      3.   Employ Persons And Equipment: Employ such persons and equipment as
is authorized by the City Council to perform the duties he is charged with.
      4.   Account For Materials, Equipment And Labor: Account to the City
Council for all materials, equipment and labor used by him or in his hands, in
his capacity of Superintendent of Parks. (Ord. 1019, 5-8-2000)
1-6-5: DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN:
   A.   Purpose: To enable the City to attract and to retain in its employment
persons of competence and to provide a means for supplementing the retirement
of the City employees, the City hereby elects to join and participate in the
Kansas Public Employee Deferred Compensation Plan, as authorized by House Bill
No. 3054, laws of 1982.
   B.   Duties Of City Clerk: The City Clerk is hereby charged with the duties
of serving as local administrator of the plan and shall provide forms to all
City employees to specify the amount of any compensation voluntarily deferred,
make appropriate reductions from the gross compensation of such employees,and
transfer to the AEtna Company the amount so deferred in accordance with the
conditions established under the Plan Joinder Agreement. (Ord. 841, 1-3-1983;
amd. 1998 Code)
   C.   Execution Of Agreement: The City, being authorized to become a joint
contract owner with the State of the group annuity contract issued by AEtna
Life Insurance and Annuity Company, in conjunction with the Kansas Public
Employees Deferred Compensation Plan, hereby authorizes and approves execution
of a Plan Joinder Agreement and a Contract Joinder Agreement to implement a
deferred compensation plan. Such agreements shall be signed by the Mayor. (Ord.
841, 1-3-1983)
   D.   Accounting: The City Clerk shall periodically cause an account to be
made to each employee participating in the City's deferred compensation plan of
the amount contributed and such other information as may be required. (Ord.
841, 1-3-1983; amd. 1998 Code)
   E.   Nonliability Of City: The City shall not be responsible for any loss
incurred by an employee under the City's deferred compensation plan adopted and
approved by this Section. (Ord. 841, 1-3-1983)
1-6-6: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTRIBUTION FUND:
   A.   Established: The City, in accordance with the provisions of Kansas
Statutes Annotated section 12-16,102, as amended, does hereby establish an
Employee Benefits Contribution Fund for the purpose of paying the City's share
of employee benefits prescribed by subsection B of this Section.
   B.   Benefits Authorized For Payment: The cost of employee benefits
authorized for payment from the Fund created by subsection A of this Section
shall including the following: employer contributions for social security,
workers' compensation, unemployment insurance, health care costs, employee
benefit plans and employee retirement and pension programs. (Ord. 931, 7-16-
1990)
1-6-7: CITY ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   The Governing Body shall select and by majority vote and appoint a City
Administrator to perform the duties and exercise the authority of such position
as set forth in the ordinances of the City and the laws of the state of Kansas.
The City Administrator shall be an employee at-will and his/her compensation,
benefits, and other terms and conditions of employment shall be established
pursuant to written contract. The City Administrator may be terminated only by
a majority vote of the Governing Body. The City Administrator shall, consistent
with the terms of such contract and ordinances, serve at the pleasure of the
Governing Body.
   B.   The City Administrator shall be a qualified elector of Scott County,
Kansas.
   C.   So long as a City Administrator is appointed, then the terms of the
contract and the duties listed herein shall control and all portions of other
code sections contradicting such shall be read to be consistent with the
contract and this section or disregarded. In the event that the City
Administrator is not able to serve for a period of time or the position of City
Administrator becomes vacant, the mayor will resume such administrative duties
as needed and all conflicting code sections will be followed as originally
written.
   D.   The duties of the city Administrator shall include:
      1.   See that the laws and ordinances of the City are enforced. Ensure
that the City complies with all Federal and State laws.
      2.   Attend all meetings of the Governing Body and Planning Commission
with the right to take part in the discussion and make recommendations but
having no vote.
      3.   Serve on various boards and commissions representing the city as
requested by the Governing Body.
      4.   Take part in City planning. Make recommendations and provide policy
options to the Governing Body when appropriate for the best interests of the
City.
      5.   Make regular reports of the city's finances and activities to the
Governing Body.
      6.   Prepare, in coordination with the Mayor, the meeting agenda.
      7.   Perform investigation and study of issues as the Governing Body
requests.
      8.   Coordinate the work of all boards, committees, and volunteers
appointed by the Governing Body.
      9.   Supervise administration of all City departments and offices.
Coordinate activities of all City departments through the department heads.
      10.   Ensure professional development and adequate training for all
employees.
      11.   Manage all services of the City. Make all recommendations necessary
to provide city services efficiently and effectively.
      12.   Research, interpret, and prepare, in coordination with department
heads, all policies and procedures necessary to carry out City functions. All
formal policies will be subject to approval by the Governing Body.
      13.   Research, interpret, and prepare, in consultation with the City
Attorney, ordinances and resolutions for Governing Body consideration.
      14.   Prepare and submit to the Governing Body the annual budget of the
City.
      15.   Oversee evaluation of all budget items including expenditures,
revenues, and services. Ensure that all purchases are in accordance with City
purchasing policies and the budget.
      16.   Oversee accounting procedures, billing methods, record keeping and
computer programming of the City. In coordination with City Clerk, ensure
proper record keeping of the City.
      17.   Maintain current knowledge of state and federal financial grants
and available assistance from other agencies, and to prepare, submit and
monitor financial grants and applications.
      18.   Provide general educational information to the citizens to assist
in understanding City law and policy.
      19.   Oversee care of and managemen of all city-owned land, property,
buildings, and equipment.
      20.   Administer risk management and insurances, including but not
limited to workers' compensation, liability, property, employment liability,
and vehicle.
      21.   Serve as the City's representative in issues of emergency
preparedness or disaster relief in coordination with county emergency
management.
      22.   Negotiate contracts, agreements, and memorandums of understanding
as directed by the Governing Body.
      23.   Maintain a good relationship between the City government, county
commissioners, local citizens, businesses, and other civic organizations.
      24.   Ensure the duties of City Clerk are fulfilled in the absence of a
City Clerk.
      25.   Prepare and conduct yearly performance evaluations of all
department heads and present such for review to the Governing body.
      26.   Manage the city's pay plan, job descriptions, employment handbook
and other personnel policies. Make recommendations to the Governing Body
regarding suggested improvements.
      27.   Make recommendations to the Mayor for appointment, hiring,
discipline or termination of department heads.
      28.   Consult with department heads to hire, discipline, or terminate
department employees. All such action shall be approved by the Administrator.
(Ord. 1216, 6-7-2021)
CHAPTER 7
CITY ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Election Of City Officers; Terms
1-7-2: Conducted In Compliance With State Statute
1-7-3: Qualification Of Mayor And Council Members
1-7-4: Vacancies In Office
1-7-5: Ward Division
1-7-1: ELECTION OF CITY OFFICERS; TERMS:
On the next Tuesday after the first Monday in November of each odd numbered
year, there shall be elected one Council member from each ward. On the next
Tuesday following the first Monday in November 2021, and on the next Tuesday
following the first Monday in November of every fourth year thereafter, the
Mayor and City Treasurer shall be elected for a term of four (4) years. Each
Council Member, the City Treasurer, and the Mayor elected shall hold an office
for a period of four (4) years. (Ord. 1177, 11-7-2016; amd. Charter Ord. 13, 2-
3-2020)
1-7-2: CONDUCTED IN COMPLIANCE WITH STATE STATUTE:
The election of the City officers shall be held in compliance with the
provisions of Kansas Statutes Annotated article 21 of chapter 25. (Ord. 1177,
11-7-2016)
1-7-3: QUALIFICATION OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS:
The Mayor and City Council members must be qualified electors of the City as
provided in the Kansas Constitution article 5, section 1. The Mayor may live at
any location within the City. Council members must live within specified wards.
The Council members must be actual residents of the ward for which elected at
the time of their election. (Ord. 1177, 11-7-2016)
1-7-4: VACANCIES IN OFFICE:
   A.   Resignation: A resignation does not take effect with its presentation.
It must be accepted to be effective. A person who accepts a public office,
either after election or by appointment, cannot divest himself of that office
by his own act. Once having accepted the office, the person continues in office
until his or her resignation has been accepted by the City Council.
   B.   Vacancy: If any Council member moves from the ward from which elected,
the office shall be deemed vacant.
   C.   Mayor: When a vacancy occurs in the Office of Mayor by resignation,
death, removal from the City, removal from the office, refusal to qualify or
otherwise, the President of the City Council becomes the Mayor until the next
regular City election and a vacancy occurs in the Office of the Council member
becoming Mayor. The City Council then elects a new President of the City
Council.
   D.   Council Member: Whenever there is a vacancy in the Office of Council
member, the Mayor and the remaining Council members appoint an elector from the
ward where the vacancy occurs and this person serves as Council member for the
balance of the unexpired term of the Council member whose office was vacated.
   E.   Treasurer: Whenever there is a vacancy in the Office of Treasurer, the
Mayor and Council members appoint an elector of the City and this person serves
as Treasurer for the balance of the unexpired term of the Treasurer whose
office was vacated.
   F.   Council Member Running For Mayor: If a holdover Council member runs for
Mayor and is defeated, he does not lose his place on the City Council. If he is
elected Mayor, there is a vacancy in his place on the City Council and a
successor shall be appointed. (Ord. 1189, 7-16-2018)
1-7-5: WARD DIVISION:
The City Council divides the City into wards, establishes the boundaries
thereof and the numbers of the same. The territory of each ward should be
contiguous and compact. Whenever the number of registered voters in any one
ward exceeds by more than twenty percent (20%) of the number of registered
voters in another ward, the City Council must change and redefine the
boundaries of the wards so that the number of registered voters in each of the
wards are as nearly equal as possible, but no such change can be made within
thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed for holding of election in such ward.
(Ord. 1177, 11-7-2016)
CHAPTER 8
PUBLIC BIDDING PROCEDURE
SECTION:
1-8-1: Policy
1-8-2: Application Of Procedure
1-8-3: Option To Reject
1-8-4: Dollar Limits
1-8-5: Notice; Publication
1-8-6: Specifications
1-8-7: Qualifications Or Security
1-8-8: Idle Funds
1-8-9: Exception For Specific Circumstances
1-8-10: Penalty
1-8-1: POLICY:
   A.   Opportunity For Competition: It shall be the duty of the City and its
agents to give opportunity for competition on purchases and sales, except when
the nature of the purchase or sale is such that competition is impossible or
impracticable. It shall be important and allowable to consider the location or
existence of a bidder's business office or service facility within the City or
County when considering whether bids will be awarded.
   B.   Local Service Facility: If deemed in the City's best interest, a
business must have or provide a local service facility to qualify as a
"responsible bidder". All bids submitted shall meet all specifications
requested by the City. (Ord. 945, 3-2-1991)
1-8-2: APPLICATION OF PROCEDURE:
   A.   Specified: This procedure shall apply to purchases and sales of goods,
merchandise, automobiles and other personal property. Sales of real estate
shall be made to the highest responsible bidder at public or private sale,
excepting sales of tracts or lots in the City Industrial Park. Contracts for
professional services and for investment of idle funds may be let for bids
according to this Chapter, but the same is not mandatory.
   B.   Bids Sealed; Public Inspection: All bids shall be sealed and shall not
be opened except in public and thereafter shall be subject to public
inspection. All bids shall be opened as soon as after the expiration of the
time limit specified in the bid notice. (Ord. 945, 3-2-1991)
1-8-3: OPTION TO REJECT:
The City is not obligated or bound in any way to accept any bids submitted. All
bids may be rejected and at the City's option, a proposal may be relet,
modified or cancelled. (Ord. 945, 3-2-1991)
1-8-4: DOLLAR LIMITS:
All purchases in excess of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00), except of real
estate, shall be contracted to the lowest responsible bidder, as approved by
the City Council. All sales of existing City property, in excess of five
hundred dollars ($500.00), shall be made to the highest responsible bidder.
(Ord. 973, 9-6-1994; amd. Ord. 1251, 12-5-2022)
1-8-5: NOTICE; PUBLICATION:
Public notice of the letting of bids or of the taking of bids shall be
published at least once in the official City newspaper. Said notice shall list
the date and time of bid opening and shall contain specifications for the bids
or the location or place where said specifications may be obtained. (Ord. 945,
3-2-1991)
1-8-6: SPECIFICATIONS:
Sealed bids shall be taken upon the specifications developed by the City or its
agents. The City may reject any bid for its failure to meet said
specifications. Bids shall be accepted on the condition that all specifications
are contained within the bid. The City Council may refer bids to the
appropriate committee or the engineer for the City for review of the bid's
compliance. (Ord. 945, 3-2-1991; amd. 1998 Code)
1-8-7: QUALIFICATIONS OR SECURITY:
Successful bidders may be required to furnish qualifications and/or to furnish
security conditioned upon the faithful performance of their contract or
conditioned upon the payment of wages and compensation of all laborers employed
on work for which a contract is made by a contractor, subcontractor, agent or
any other person or condition, or both. (Ord. 945, 3-2-1991)
1-8-8: IDLE FUNDS:
This Chapter may be utilized to take bids for investment of idle funds or funds
not immediately required for the purpose for which the funds were collected or
received. If the City Treasurer deems it necessary to employ this Section,
notice shall be published in the official City newspaper or, in the
alternative, a copy of said notice may be mailed, postage prepaid, to all
interested institutions. The City Clerk shall make a proper certificate of
mailing, should this option be employed. Said notice shall be directed to all
commercial banks and savings and loan organizations having offices within the
City. All bids may be rejected if deemed in the best interest of the City.
Further, this Section is subject to the restrictions of Kansas Statutes
Annotates section 12-1675, as amended, along with any other applicable laws or
statutes. (Ord. 945, 3-2-1991; amd. 1998 Code)
1-8-9: EXCEPTION FOR SPECIFIC CIRCUMSTANCES:
This procedure may be avoided if it is impossible or impracticable to do so. If
an emergency exists, the Mayor shall make such a declaration and his decision
shall be reviewed at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council.
Any action that circumvents the public bidding procedure shall be acted upon in
a public meeting and the determination shall be noted and summarized in the
minutes of said meeting. (Ord. 945, 3-2-1991)
1-8-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Title. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 9
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Municipal Judge
1-9-2: Officers Of The Court
1-9-3: Courtroom, Docket And Supplies Furnished By City
1-9-4: Court Proceedings
1-9-5: Court Costs And Other Costs
1-9-6: Definitions
1-9-7: Appearance Bonds For Initial Arrests
1-9-8: Appearance Bonds For Appeals
1-9-1: MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
   A.   Appointment: The municipal judge shall be appointed by the mayor,
confirmed by the city council, and shall be a conservator of the peace. (1983
Code § 8-201; amd. 1998 Code)
   B.   Jurisdiction: The municipal judge shall have exclusive jurisdiction to
hear and determine all offenses against the ordinances of this city. (1983 Code
§ 8-203)
   C.   Powers: The municipal judge shall have the power to administer the
oaths and enforce due obedience to all orders, rules and judgments made by him,
and may fine or imprison for contempt offered to such judge while holding his
court, or to process issued by him, in the same manner and to the same extent
as the district court. (1983 Code § 8-212)
   D.   Vacancy In Office: In case of a vacancy in the office of municipal
judge by removal or otherwise, the mayor shall appoint a suitable and proper
person to fill said vacancy; and the person so appointed shall hold his office
for the unexpired term. (1983 Code § 8-202; amd. 1998 Code)
   E.   Deliver Records To Successor: The municipal judge shall deliver to his
successor all dockets, books, papers and files pertaining to the office of
municipal judge. (1983 Code § 8-206)
1-9-2: OFFICERS OF THE COURT:
The officers of the municipal court shall be the municipal judge, municipal
court clerk, chief of police and all other police officers of the city. (1983
Code § 8-204; amd. 1998 Code)
1-9-3: COURTROOM, DOCKET AND SUPPLIES FURNISHED BY CITY:
The city council shall provide a suitable courtroom for the municipal judge at
the expense of the city; and shall furnish the municipal judge with a suitable
docket, files and supplies as may be needed for the municipal court. (1983 Code
§ 8-205)
1-9-4: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Compliance With State Law: All matters relating to procedure,
prosecution, trial and appeal shall comply with the provisions of Kansas
Statutes Annotated articles 41 through 46 of chapter 12, and any amendments
thereto.
   B.   Sessions: The municipal judge shall hold his court at such times and
place as shall be set by the municipal judge.
   C.   Docket Maintained: The municipal judge shall keep a docket in which he
shall enter every cause brought before him. All prosecutions for violating any
ordinance of the city shall be entitled "The City of Scott City against
           " (naming the person charged) and the municipal judge shall state in
his docket the name of the complainant, the nature or character of the offense,
the date of the trial, the names of all witnesses sworn and examined, the
findings of the court, the judgment or fine and costs, the date of payment, the
date of issuing commitment, if any, and every other fact necessary to show the
full proceedings in such case.
   D.   Conviction, Judgment Of: In no case shall a judgment of conviction be
rendered except upon sufficient legal testimony given on a public trial or upon
a plea of guilty made in open court.
   E.   Punishment Declared And Assessed: If the defendant plead or be found
guilty, the municipal judge shall declare and assess the punishment prescribed
by ordinance, and render judgment accordingly, and for costs of suit, and may
order that the defendant stand committed until the judgment is completed.
   F.   Lack Of Jurisdiction: If in the progress of any trial before the
municipal judge, it shall appear that the accused ought to be put upon his
trial for an offense against the criminal laws of the state, and not cognizable
before the said municipal judge, he shall immediately stop all further
proceedings before him as such judge, and thereupon he shall cause said
complaint to be made before a county judge, who shall proceed as in other cases
cognizable before county courts. (Ord. 1096, 10-20-2008)
1-9-5: COURT COSTS AND OTHER COSTS:
   A.   The clerk of the municipal court, or any designee thereof, and the
municipal judge shall assess and collect court costs from each accused person
in each action in municipal court as provided in subsection B. of this section.
Such court costs are based upon the cost of issuing process, administering
oaths, filing and preserving all papers and records, docketing cases, setting
cases for trial, and such further acts as may be compatible with the
administration of justice.
   B.   Court costs shall be assessed against an accused person for any
ordinance violation disposed of by forfeiture of bond, by plea of guilty or no
contest, by a finding of guilt after trial, or by diversion or other
alternative resolution as follows:
      1.   For all violations of ordinances related to traffic or from the
standard traffic ordinance other than those specified in subsections B.3. and
B.4. of this section: seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
      2.   For all violations of the uniform public offense code as adopted or
amended by the city or for all other violations: one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      3.   For all ordinance violations relating to the unlawful parking of
vehicles pursuant, exclusively, to any sections set forth in Article 13 of the
Standard Traffic Ordinance, as incorporated by reference in Section
6-1-1, and to Section
6-1-2: five dollars ($5.00).
      4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection B.1., no court costs
shall be assessed for all other violations relating to seat belts pursuant to
Section 182.1 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, as incorporated by reference
in Section
6-1-1.
      5.   In the case of conflict between subsection B. and any other
ordinance, the provisions of the other ordinance shall apply.
   C.   The City shall, insofar as applicable, remit to the State of Kansas the
required assessments pursuant to K.S.A. 12-4116, 12-4117, and 12-4120, and
amendments thereto, for only those costs that are assessed pursuant to
subsection B. and that are collected.
   D.   Should the Kansas legislature or the Supreme Court of the State of
Kansas, from time to time, increase required fees or assessments to be
collected in municipal court, the costs designated in this section shall be
increased by the clerk of the municipal court, or any designee thereof, in an
amount necessary to adequately cover the increased required fee or assessment.
   E.   Only one court cost shall be assessed for each single case number,
regardless of the number of violations in the case.
    F.   The application cost or program fee associated with a diversion
agreement or any other alternative resolution for any other violation shall be
determined by the City Prosecutor but shall not be less than one hundred and
fifty dollars ($150.00) and shall not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   G.   The clerk of the municipal court may, at their sole discretion,
determine the payment methods to be used for the payment of any costs in this
section and for the payment of any fine imposed; provided, however, that the
same payment methods must be generally available to all accused persons, absent
an individualized suspicion of fraudulent activity or history.
   H.   The clerk of the municipal court may provide for non-cash payment
methods, including, but not limited to, electronic, digital, and mobile
payments. The clerk of the municipal court may set a fee to be added to each
non-cash transaction that is equal to the cost paid by or charged to the City
for payment processing or the clerk of the municipal court may provide for a
payment processing service that sets fees for and directly charges accused
persons or their payors for non-cash transactions. Any fee related to a non-
cash transaction for payment processing is to be paid by the accused person or
their payor and said fee shall be paid in addition to other costs and fines.
The clerk of the municipal court, or any designee thereof, shall provide notice
of any such fee to an accused person or their payor at the time of payment.
   I.   The clerk of the municipal court may provide for payment by personal or
business checks. The acceptance of any check is conditional upon the
satisfactory collection of the check. The clerk of the municipal court may
establish fees for returned checks but any such fee shall not be less than
twenty dollars ($20.00) and shall not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00). Any
such fee shall be paid by the accused person who drafted the returned check or
by the accused person on whose behalf the returned check was presented. Any
such fee shall be paid in addition to other costs and fines.
   J.   The costs and fees assessed pursuant to this Section shall be in
addition to the fine imposed. (Ord. 1172, 4-18-2016; amd. Ord. 1259, 11-6-2023)
1-9-6: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms for purposes of this Chapter shall be defined as follows:
 
                           The judge appointed by the Governing Body to preside
MUNICIPAL JUDGE:           over the Municipal Court. The term "Municipal Judge"
                           shall exclude any attorney who is designated or
                           selected to serve as judge pro tempore.
                           The termination of the appearance bond due to each
                           charge in all cases covered under the bond being
TERMINATION BY RESOLUTION: resolved by dismissal, by entering into diversion,
                           or by the imposition of a sentence. (Ord. 1270, 9-
                           16-2024)
 
1-9-7: APPEARANCE BONDS FOR INITIAL ARRESTS:
   A.   General Rule - Cash Bond Required: Upon the person's initial arrest and
after completion of the booking process, any person who is arrested on a non-
warrant arrest for an ordinance violation under this Code shall, given an
opportunity to be released from custody by executing and posting an appearance
bond that is secured by the payment of cash and by no other method of securing
the person's appearance, except as may be authorized by subsections B., C., or
D. The amount of cash required to be posted for any such cash bond shall be
determined pursuant to subsection G.. Any such cash bond shall be conditioned
upon any conditions of release that may be required by subsection H. Any such
cash bond shall be in the form prescribed by subsection K.
   B.   Exception - Poverty Affidavit: Notwithstanding subsection A., any
person who is authorized to be released on a cash bond pursuant to subsection
A. and who notifies a law enforcement officer of the Scott City Police
Department that the person is unable to post such bond due to their indigency
shall be offered the opportunity to complete and execute a poverty affidavit
pursuant to this subsection. Any fully completed and executed poverty affidavit
received by a law enforcement officer of the Scott City Police Department shall
be sent to the Municipal Judge or judge pro tempore for review no longer than
eighteen (18) hours after the time of such person's arrest. Upon receipt of any
such poverty affidavit, the Municipal Judge or judge pro tempore shall:
      1.   Determine whether the poverty affidavit necessitates a bond
modification; and
      2.   Be authorized to reduce the amount of cash required to be posted for
any cash bond or to change the method used to secure the person's appearance
from a cash bond to a corporate surety bond or personal recognizance bond.
      Any such bond modification shall not be effective unless executed by a
Municipal Judge or judge pro tempore on the form prescribed by subsection K. In
the event that the Municipal Judge or judge pro tempore modifies the bond to a
corporate surety bond or personal recognizance bond, the judge shall impose any
conditions of release that may be required by subsection H. In making any such
modification, the Municipal Judge or judge pro tempore shall have no authority
to remove any conditions of release that may be required by subsection H.
Nothing in this subsection shall require the Municipal Judge or judge pro
tempore to consult with the person who completed the affidavit or to consider
any information other than what is effectively communicated in the poverty
affidavit.
   C.   Exception - Medical Release: Notwithstanding subsection A., any person
who is authorized to be released on a cash bond pursuant to subsection A. may
be released from custody for any medical reason at the request of any law
enforcement officer of the Scott City Police Department, but only upon the
condition that the Scott City Police Department has received or attempted to
obtain the consent for such release from the Chief of Police or, in the event
that such person is unavailable, from the City Attorney or Assistant City
Attorney.
   D.   Exception - Judicial Release: Notwithstanding subsection A., any person
who is authorized to be released on a cash bond pursuant to subsection A. may
be released from custody upon the order of the Municipal Judge or judge pro
tempore for good cause.
   E.   Automatic Personal Recognizance Bond After Forty-Eight (48) Hours: Any
person who is authorized to be released on a cash bond or corporate surety bond
pursuant to this section and who is unable to post such bond within forty-eight
(48) hours after the time of such person's arrest shall be given an opportunity
to be released from custody by executing and posting a personal recognizance
bond, but only upon the condition that the bond is conditioned upon any
conditions of release that may be required by subsection H.
   F.   Refusal Or Inability To Cooperate: Any person who is authorized to be
released on any appearance bond pursuant to this section and who fails,
refuses, or is unable to fully complete and execute the bond shall be held in
the Scott County Jail until such time that:
      1.   The person fully completes and executes such bond; or
      2.   The person can be brought before the Municipal Judge or judge pro
tempore during a regularly scheduled court setting wherein the person shall be
eligible for release upon any appearance bond and conditions of release
required by the Municipal Judge or judge pro tempore, in the sole discretion
thereof, except that the judge shall impose any conditions of release that may
be required by subsection H.
   G.   Bond Schedule: The City shall prepare a bond schedule to be used to set
the standard amount of cash required to be posted for any cash bond authorized
pursuant to subsection A.. Any such bond schedule shall, at a minimum, list the
minimum fine respectively set forth in this Code or approved by the Municipal
Judge for each ordinance violation under this Code for which a potential jail
sentence could be imposed. Any approved bond schedule may be amended at the
sole discretion of the City, without notice to the general public or to the
Governing Body. No such bond schedule or any amendment thereto shall be
effective until executed by the Municipal Judge.
   H.   Conditions Of Release: Any appearance bond posted pursuant to this
section shall impose the following conditions of release, if applicable:
      1.   No New Law Violations Condition: For any person who is arrested and
charged with any ordinance violation, a condition of release to have no new law
violations shall be imposed on any bond posted by such person. Such condition
shall take effect on the date and time that the bond is executed by such person
and shall remain in effect up to and until the bond is terminated pursuant to
subsection I., unless the Municipal Court specifically orders the removal of
such condition at an earlier time. Any arrest of such person that meets each of
the following requirements shall constitute a violation of this condition,
shall subject the bond to revocation pursuant to subsection J., and may result
in the person being charged with a violation of Section
5-5-5, and amendments thereto:
         a.   The arrest was for any ordinance violation for which a potential
jail sentence could be imposed or was for any crime for which a potential jail
sentence could be imposed;
         b.   The arrest occurred subsequent to the time in which the condition
was imposed on the person;
         c.   The arrest occurred during the time in which the condition was
still in effect; and
         d.   The arrest occurred within the corporate limits of the City.
      2.   No Contact Condition: For any person who is arrested and charged
with the ordinance violation of domestic battery, battery, assault, or any
other ordinance violation that includes an offense against a person, threat
against a person, or bodily harm to a person, a condition of release to have no
contact with the alleged victim or victims thereof shall be imposed on any bond
posted by such person. Such condition shall take effect on the date and time
that the bond is executed by such person and shall remain in effect up to and
until the bond is terminated pursuant to subsection I., unless the Municipal
Court specifically orders the removal of such condition at an earlier time. Any
of the following actions by such person shall, regardless of whether such
action occurred within the corporate limits of the City, constitute a violation
of this condition, shall subject the bond to revocation pursuant to subsection
J., and may result in the person being charged with a violation of Section
5-5-5, and amendments thereto:
         a.   Any contact with any such victim in any manner whatsoever, either
directly or indirectly, but only upon the conditions that any such contact
occurred subsequent to the time in which the condition of release was imposed
on the person and occurred during the time in which the condition was still in
effect;
         b.   Entering or coming on or around the premises, residence, or
workplace where any such victim resides, stays, or works, unless the person
subject to the condition is accompanied by a law enforcement officer who has
agreed to conduct a civil standby, but only upon the conditions that any such
entering or coming on or around occurred subsequent to the time in which the
condition of release was imposed on the person and occurred during the time in
which the condition was still in effect; or
         c.   Abusing, molesting, or interfering with the privacy or rights of
any such victim, wherever they may be, but only upon the conditions that any
such abuse, molestation, or interference occurred subsequent to the time in
which the condition of release was imposed on the person and occurred during
the time in which the condition was still in effect.
   I.   Term; Termination: Any appearance bond posted pursuant to this section
shall continue until and shall be terminated upon the earliest of:
      1.   The bond being Terminated by Resolution; or
      2.   The bond being revoked pursuant to subsection J..
      Any appearance bond posted pursuant to this section shall in no way be
construed as a bond ordered pursuant to K.S.A. 12-4602 or K.S.A. 22-3609, and
amendments thereto.
   J.   Revocation: Any appearance bond posted pursuant to this section may be
revoked as follows:
      1.   Failure To Appear: In the event that a person who posted such bond
fails to appear before the Municipal Court as directed or referenced in the
bond, the Municipal Judge or judge pro tempore may revoke the bond through the
issuance of a warrant for the arrest of such person. Any such warrant may be
issued to include any single case or multiple cases as follows:
         a.   The warrant may be issued in a single wherein the warrant covers
only that particular case; or
         b.   The warrant may be issued in a single case wherein the warrant
covers that particular case and also covers any number of other cases, so long
as the person is a defendant in each case covered under the warrant.
      In addition thereto, any such person may be charged with a violation of
Section
5-5-6, and amendments thereto. In the event that a revocation pursuant to this
subsection occurs prior to the bond being Terminated by Resolution, any
condition of release imposed pursuant to subsection H. shall survive any such
revocation and shall remain in full force and effect against such person until
a subsequent appearance bond is posted imposing the same conditions of release.
      2.   Violation Of Condition Of Release: In the event that a person who
posted such bond violates any condition of release imposed pursuant to
subsection H., any law enforcement officer of the Scott City Police Department
may revoke the bond and may immediately remand such person to the custody of
the Scott County Jail. Any such person shall:
         a.   Be held in the Scott County Jail until such time that the person
can be brought before the Municipal Judge or judge pro tempore during a
regularly scheduled court setting; and
         b.   Be eligible for release upon any appearance bond and conditions
of release required by the Municipal Judge or judge pro tempore, in the sole
discretion thereof, except that the judge shall impose any conditions of
release that may be required by subsection H.
      In the event that a revocation pursuant to this subsection occurs prior
to the bond being Terminated by Resolution, any condition of release imposed
pursuant to subsection H. shall survive any such revocation and shall remain in
full force and effect against the person until a subsequent appearance bond is
posted imposing the same conditions of release.
   K.   Use Of Forms: Any appearance bond or poverty affidavit authorized
pursuant to this section shall be in a standard form document that is
prescribed or otherwise approved by the City, with the consent of the City
Attorney or Assistant City Attorney, for such purpose. Any such form shall
respectively comply with each of the following requirements:
      1.   Special Requirements - Appearance Bonds:
         a.   Any such appearance bond shall contain, in clearly readable
print, a notice that substantially complies with the following language:
      “IF YOU ARE UNABLE TO POST A CASH BOND DUE TO YOUR INDIGENCY, then you
must notify a law enforcement officer of the Scott City Police Department that
you are requesting a bond modification based on your indigency. You will then
be required to fully complete and execute a Poverty Affidavit that will be sent
to a judge of the Municipal Court for review in order to determine whether the
statements contained in the Poverty Affidavit necessitate a bond modification.
A decision on your bond modification will be made by the judge within eighteen
(18) hours of your arrest. Your failure to fully complete and execute the
Poverty Affidavit will result in your bond modification being denied.”
      2.   Special Requirements - Poverty Affidavit: Any such poverty affidavit
shall be signed, whether physically or by electronic means, by the affiant as
an unsworn declaration under the penalty of perjury pursuant to K.S.A. 53-601,
and amendments thereto.
   L.   Administration: Any law enforcement officer of the Scott City Police
Department shall be authorized to execute, enforce, and administer the
provisions set forth by the section. (Ord. 1270, 9-16-2024)
1-9-8: APPEARANCE BONDS FOR APPEALS:
Any bond that the Municipal Judge or judge pro tempore requires to be posted by
a convicted person for appeal to the District Court of Scott County, Kansas
shall, regardless of form and content, constitute and be construed as an
appearance bond ordered pursuant to K.S.A. 22-3609, and amendments thereto, and
shall in no way be construed as:
   A.   An appeal bond ordered pursuant to K.S.A. 12-4602, and amendments
thereto; or
   B.   The continuation of any appearance bond authorized pursuant to Section
1-9-7. (Ord. 1270, 9-16-2024)
CHAPTER 10
PUBLIC RECORD COPIES; FEES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Statement Of Purpose; Periodic Review
1-10-2: Inspection Fee
1-10-3: Copying Fee
1-10-4: Prepayment Of Fees
1-10-5: Payment
1-10-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE; PERIODIC REVIEW:
It is the purpose of this Chapter to establish reasonable fees and charges for
the provision of access to or copies of open public records in the possession
of the City to avoid the necessity of using general public funds of the City to
subsidize special services and benefits to a record requester. The official
record custodian (City Clerk) shall periodically recommend to the City Council
such changes in this Chapter as may be necessary to secure this purpose. (Ord.
853, 4-24-1984; amd. 1998 Code)
1-10-2: INSPECTION FEE:
   A.   Records Readily Available: Where a request has been made for inspection
of any open public record which is readily available to the record custodian,
there shall be no inspection fee charged to the requester.
   B.   Established: In all cases not covered by subsection A of this Section,
a record inspection fee shall be charged at the rate of ten dollars ($10.00)
per hour per employee engaged in the record search. A minimum charge of five
dollars ($5.00) shall be charged for each such request. (Ord. 853, 4-24-1984)
1-10-3: COPYING FEE:
   A.   Enumerated: A fee of fifty cents ($0.50) per page shall be charged for
photocopying public records, such fee to cover the cost of labor, materials and
equipment.
   B.   Records Unable To Be Reproduced By City: For copying any public records
which cannot be reproduced by the City's photocopying equipment, the requester
shall be charged the actual cost to the City, including staff time, in
reproducing such records. (Ord. 853, 4-24-1984)
1-10-4: PREPAYMENT OF FEES:
   A.   Authorized: A record custodian may demand prepayment of the fees
established by this Chapter whenever he or she believes this to be in the best
interest of the City. The prepayment amount shall be an estimate of the
inspection and/or copying charges accrued in fulfilling the record request. Any
overage or underage in the prepayment shall be settled prior to inspection of
the requested record or delivery of the requested copies.
   B.   When Required: Prepayment of inspection and/or copying fees shall be
required whenever, in the best estimate of the record custodian, such fees are
estimated to exceed twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   C.   Payment Required Prior To Availability: Where prepayment has been
demanded by the record custodian, no record shall be made available to the
requester until such prepayment has been made. (Ord. 853, 4-24-1984)
1-10-5: PAYMENT:
All fees charged under this Chapter shall be paid to the custodian of the
records inspected and/or copied unless the requester has established an
account, for purposes of billing and payment, with the City. All fees received
shall be paid to the City Treasurer whenever the amount of fees collected
totals ten dollars ($10.00), but not less than monthly. (Ord. 853, 4-24-1984)
CHAPTER 11
INSURANCE PROCEEDS FROM BUILDING DAMAGE
SECTION:
1-11-1: Scope And Application
1-11-2: Lien Created
1-11-3: Encumbrances
1-11-4: Pro Rata Basis
1-11-5: Procedure
1-11-6: Fund Created; Deposit Of Monies
1-11-7: Building Inspector; Investigation, Removal Of Structure
1-11-8: Removal Of Structure; Excess Monies
1-11-9: Disposition Of Funds
1-11-10: Effect Upon Insurance Policies
1-11-11: Insurers' Liability
1-11-1: SCOPE AND APPLICATION:
The city is hereby authorized to utilize the procedures established by Kansas
Statutes Annotated 40-3901 et seq., whereby no insurance company shall pay a
claim of a named insured for loss or damage to any building or other structure
located within the city, arising out of any fire, explosion, or windstorm,
where the amount recoverable for the loss or damage to the building or other
structure under all policies is in excess of seventy five percent (75%) of the
face value of the policy covering such building or other insured structure,
unless there is compliance with the procedures set out in this chapter. (Ord.
1081, 1-21-2008)
1-11-2: LIEN CREATED:
The governing body of the city hereby creates a lien in favor of the city on
the proceeds of any insurance policy based upon a covered claim payment made
for damage or loss to a building or other structure located within the city,
caused by or arising out of any fire, explosion, or windstorm, where the amount
recoverable for all the loss or damage to the building or other structure under
all policies is in excess of seventy five percent (75%) of the face value of
the policy(ies) covering such building or other insured structure. The lien
arises upon any unpaid tax, special ad valorem levy, or any other charge
imposed upon real property by or on behalf of the city which is an encumbrance
on real property, whether or not evidenced by written instrument, or such tax,
levy, assessment, expense or other charge that has remained undischarged for at
least one year prior to the filing of a proof of loss. (Ord. 1081, 1-21-2008)
1-11-3: ENCUMBRANCES:
Prior to final settlement on any claim covered by section
1-11-2 of this chapter, the insurer or insurers shall contact the county
treasurer, Scott County, Kansas, to determine whether any such encumbrances are
presently in existence. If the same are found to exist, the insurer or insurers
shall execute and transmit in an amount equal to that owing under the
encumbrances a draft payable to the county treasurer, Scott County, Kansas.
(Ord. 1081, 1-21-2008)
1-11-4: PRO RATA BASIS:
Such transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro rata basis by all insurance
companies insuring the building or other structure. (Ord. 1081, 1-21-2008)
1-11-5: PROCEDURE:
   A.   When final settlement on a covered claim has been agreed to or arrived
at between the named insured or insureds and the company or companies, and the
final settlement exceeds seventy five percent (75%) of the face value of the
policy covering any building or other insured structure, and when all amounts
due the holder of a first real estate mortgage against the building or other
structure, pursuant to the terms of the policy and endorsements thereto, shall
have been paid, the insurance company or companies shall execute a draft
payable to the city treasurer in an amount equal to the sum of fifteen percent
(15%) of the covered claim payment, unless the chief building inspector of the
city has issued a certificate to the insurance company or companies that the
insured has removed the damaged building or other structure, as well as all
associated debris, or repaired, rebuilt, or otherwise made the premises safe
and secure.
   B.   Such transfer of funds shall be on a pro rata basis by all companies
insuring the building or other structure. Policy proceeds remaining after the
transfer to the city shall be disbursed in accordance with the policy terms.
   C.   Upon the transfer of the funds as required by subsection A of this
section, the insurance company shall provide the city with the name and address
of the named insured or insureds, the total insurance coverage applicable to
said building or other structure, and the amount of the final settlement agreed
to or arrived at between the insurance company or companies and the insured or
insureds, whereupon the chief building inspector shall contact the named
insured or insureds by certified mail, return receipt requested, notifying them
that said insurance proceeds have been received by the city and apprise them of
the procedures to be followed under this chapter. (Ord. 1081, 1-21-2008)
1-11-6: FUND CREATED; DEPOSIT OF MONIES:
The city treasurer is hereby authorized and shall create a fund to be known as
the "insurance proceeds fund". All monies received by the city treasurer as
provided for by this chapter shall be placed in said fund and deposited in an
interest bearing account. (Ord. 1081, 1-21-2008)
1-11-7: BUILDING INSPECTOR; INVESTIGATION, REMOVAL OF STRUCTURE:
   A.   Upon receipt of monies as provided for by this chapter, the city
treasurer shall immediately notify the chief building inspector of said
receipt, and transmit all documentation received from the insurance company or
companies to the chief building inspector.
   B.   Within twenty (20) days of the receipt of said monies, the chief
building inspector shall determine, after prior investigation, whether the city
shall instigate proceedings under the provisions of Kansas Statutes Annotated
12-1750 et seq., as amended.
   C.   Prior to the expiration of the twenty (20) days established by
subsection B of this section, the chief building inspector shall notify the
city treasurer whether he or she intends to initiate proceedings under Kansas
Statutes Annotated 12-1750 et seq., as amended.
   D.   If the chief building inspector has determined that proceedings under
Kansas Statutes Annotated 12-1750 et seq., as amended shall be initiated, he or
she will do so immediately but no later than thirty (30) days after receipt of
the monies by the city treasurer.
   E.   Upon notification to the city treasurer by the chief building inspector
that no proceedings shall be initiated under Kansas Statutes Annotated 12-1750
et seq., as amended, the city treasurer shall return all such monies received,
plus accrued interest, to the insured or insureds as identified in the
communication from the insurance company or companies. Such return shall be
accomplished within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the monies from the
insurance company or companies. (Ord. 1081, 1-21-2008)
1-11-8: REMOVAL OF STRUCTURE; EXCESS MONIES:
If the chief building inspector has proceeded under the provisions of Kansas
Statutes Annotated 12-1750 et seq., as amended, all monies in excess of that
which is ultimately necessary to comply with the provisions for the removal of
the building or structure, less salvage value, if any, shall be paid to the
insured. (Ord. 1081, 1-21-2008)
1-11-9: DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
If the chief building inspector, with regard to a building or other structure
damaged by fire, explosion, or windstorm, determines that it is necessary to
act under Kansas Statutes Annotated 12-1756, any proceeds received by the city
treasurer under the authority of subsection
1-11-5A of this chapter relating to that building or other structure shall be
used to reimburse the city for any expenses incurred by the city in proceeding
under Kansas Statutes Annotated 12-1756. Upon reimbursement from the insurance
proceeds, the chief building inspector shall immediately effect the release of
the lien resulting therefrom. Should the expenses incurred by the city exceed
the insurance proceeds paid over to the city treasurer under subsection
1-11-5A of this chapter, the chief building inspector shall publish a new lien
as authorized by Kansas Statutes Annotated 12-1756, in an amount equal to such
excess expenses incurred. (Ord. 1081, 1-21-2008)
1-11-10: EFFECT UPON INSURANCE POLICIES:
This chapter shall not make the city a party to any insurance contract, nor is
the insurer liable to any party for any amount in excess of the proceeds
otherwise payable under its insurance policy. (Ord. 1081, 1-21-2008)
1-11-11: INSURERS' LIABILITY:
Insurers complying with this chapter or attempting in good faith to comply with
this chapter shall be immune from civil and criminal liability and such action
shall not be deemed in violation of Kansas Statutes Annotated 40-2404 and any
amendments thereto, including withholding payment of any insurance proceeds
pursuant to this chapter, or releasing or disclosing any information pursuant
to this chapter. (Ord. 1081, 1-21-2008)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Industrial Park Board Of Review   1
CHAPTER 1
INDUSTRIAL PARK BOARD OF REVIEW
SECTION:
2-1-1: Created; Appointment; Compensation
2-1-2: Duties Of Board
2-1-3: Findings Submitted
2-1-4: Building Permit; Recommendation Required
2-1-1: CREATED; APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION:
The Board of Review of the City Industrial Park is hereby created, consisting
of the Board of Directors of The Scott County Development Committee, Inc., plus
any at-large members appointed by the City. The members of said Board of Review
shall serve without compensation. (Ord. 944, 10-7-1991)
2-1-2: DUTIES OF BOARD:
The duties of the Board of Review shall be those specified in Resolution 91-
8 of the City, which Resolution is by this reference made a part hereof as
though fully set forth herein. (Ord. 944, 10-7-1991)
2-1-3: FINDINGS SUBMITTED:
The findings made by the Board of Review, based upon review, shall be promptly
submitted to the Zoning Board of Appeals/Planning and Zoning Commission. (Ord.
944, 10-7-1991; amd. 1998 Code)
2-1-4: BUILDING PERMIT; RECOMMENDATION REQUIRED:
No building permit shall be granted for construction in said Industrial Park
until review and recommendations of the Board of Review have been made and
submitted as referred to in Section
2-1-3 of this Chapter. (Ord. 944, 10-7-1991)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
Liquor Control   1
Cereal Malt Beverages   1A
Alcoholic Liquors   1B
Private Clubs   2
Temporary Businesses   3
Transient Guest Tax   4
Telecommunications Local Exchange Service Providers Franchise   5
Retailers' Sales Tax   6
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR CONTROL
ARTICLE A. CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-1A-1: Definitions
3-1A-2: License Required
3-1A-3: Fee For License
3-1A-4: Application For License
3-1A-5: Examination; Disqualification, Approval
3-1A-6: Rules, Regulations And Requirements
3-1A-7: Revocation Of License
3-1A-8: Penalty
3-1A-9: Special Event Retailers Permit
3-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the words and phrases herein defined shall have the
following meanings unless the context otherwise requires:
   CASE RETAILER: A licensee who has a license to sell only at retail cereal
malt beverages in original and unbroken case lots, and not for consumption on
the premises.
   CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE: Means cereal malt beverage as defined in Kansas
Statutes Annotated 41-2701 ("Cereal malt beverage" means any fermented but
undistilled liquor brewed or made from malt or from a mixture of malt or malt
substitute or any flavored malt beverage, as defined in K.S.A. 2017 Supp. 41-
2729, and amendments thereto, but does not include any such liquor which is
more than 3.2% alcohol by weight) and such term shall include beer containing
not more than six percent (6%) alcohol by volume when such beer is sold by a
retailer licensed under the Kansas Cereal Malt Beverage Act.
   GENERAL RETAILER: A licensee who has a license to make retail sales.
   LICENSEE: A "person", as defined in this section, who has a license as
herein required.
   PERSON: Shall include individuals, firms, copartnerships, corporations and
associations.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS: Any place at which cereal malt beverages are sold.
   SALE AT RETAIL AND RETAIL SALE: Sales for use or consumption and not for
resale in any form.
   WHOLESALER OR DISTRIBUTOR: Individuals, firms, copartnerships, corporations
and associations which sell or offer for sale any beverage referred to in this
article to persons, copartnerships, corporations and associations authorized by
this article to sell cereal malt beverages at retail. (1983 Code § 6-101; amd.
Ord. 1196, 3-4-2019, eff. 4-1-2019)
3-1A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall sell any cereal malt beverage at retail without first having
secured a license for each place of business which such person desires to
operate within the corporate limits of the City, as herein provided, and a
person having a license to sell only at retail cereal malt beverages in
original and unbroken case lots, and not for consumption on the premises, shall
not sell such beverages in any other manner. (1983 Code § 6-102)
3-1A-3: FEE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Enumerated: There are hereby prescribed license fees as follows:
      1.   General Retailer: General retailer, for each place of business
selling cereal malt beverages at retail, one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
calendar year.
      2.   Case Retailer: Case retailer, for each place of business selling
only at retail cereal malt beverages in original and unbroken case lots, and
not for consumption on the premises, fifty dollars ($50.00) per calendar year.
   B.   Prorating Of Fee Prohibited: The full amount of the license fee shall
be required regardless of the time of the year in which the application is
made, and the licensee shall only be authorized to operate under the license
for the remainder of the calendar year in which the license is issued. (1983
Code § 6-103)
3-1A-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring a license shall make an application to the City Council and
accompany the application by the required license fee for each place of
business for which the person desires the license. The application shall be
verified and upon a form prepared by the Attorney General of the State and
shall contain:
   A.   The name and residence of the applicant and how long he has resided
within the State.
   B.   The particular place for which a license is desired.
   C.   The name of the owner of the premises upon which the place of business
is located.
   D.   A statement that the applicant is a citizen of the United States and
not less than twenty one (21) years of age and that he has not within two (2)
years immediately preceding the date of making application been convicted of a
felony or any crime involving moral turpitude, or been adjudged guilty of
drunkenness or driving a motor vehicle while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or the violation of any other intoxicating liquor law of
any state or of the United States. (1983 Code § 6-104)
3-1A-5: EXAMINATION; DISQUALIFICATION, APPROVAL:
   A.   Specified; Conditions: If the application is in proper form and
accompanied by cash in the amount of the license fee, the City Attorney will
request a certified record check from the Kansas Bureau of Investigation for
consideration. The City Council shall then examine the application, and after
examination of the application, the City Council shall, if they approve the
same, issue a license to the applicant; provided, no license shall be issued
to:
      1.   A person who is not a resident of the City in which the premises
covered by the license is located and who has not been a resident in good faith
of the State for at least one year prior to said application and a resident of
the County in which said place of business is to be operated for at least six
(6) months.
      2.   A person who is not of good character or reputation in the community
in which he resides.
      3.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
      4.   A person who within two (2) years immediately preceding the date of
making application has been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral
turpitude, or been adjudged guilty of drunkenness or driving a motor vehicle
while under the influence of intoxicating liquor, or the violation of any other
intoxicating liquor law of any state or of the United States.
      5.   A co-partnership, unless one of the copartners is a resident of the
City or County in which the premises covered by the license is located and
unless all the members of such co-partnership shall otherwise be qualified to
obtain a license.
      6.   A corporation, if any manager, officer or director thereof or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than twenty five percent (25%) of the
stock of such corporation would be ineligible to receive a license hereunder
for any reason other than nonresident within the City or County.
      7.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee.
   B.   Prohibited Zones: No license shall be issued for a place of business
located or to be located in a prohibited zone. A person applying for a license
as a case retailer must be engaged in business in this City. (1983 Code § 6-
105; amd. Ord. 1206, 7-6-2020)
3-1A-6: RULES, REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Hours Of Closing; Standard Of Conduct. No cereal malt beverage may be
sold on the premises of a licensee:
      1.   Between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock
(6:00) a.m.;
      2.   On Easter Sunday; or
      3.   On a Sunday before nine o'clock (9:00) a.m. or after eight o'clock
(8:00) p.m.
No private rooms or closed booths shall be operated in any place of business.
The place of business shall be open to the public and the police at all times
during business hours. No person under twenty-one (21) years of age shall be
permitted to buy or drink any of such beverage in or about said place of
business. No person shall have any alcoholic liquor except beer containing not
more than six percent (6%) alcohol by volume, in his possession while in such
place of business in such person’s possession while in the place of business of
a licensee, unless one of the following exceptions applies:
      1.   The premises are currently licensed as a club or drinking
establishment pursuant to the Club And Drinking Establishment Act of the State
of Kansas, and amendments thereto.
      2.   The business is a farm winery licensed pursuant to K.S.A. 41-316,
and amendments thereto; or
      3.   The business is a producer licensed pursuant to K.S.A. 41-355, and
amendments thereto.
   B.   Zones Permitted. All places of business must be located within the
following described zones:
      1.   Commercial zones;
      2.   Industrial zones;
      3.   Central business zones.
   C.   Curb Service Prohibited. No person while in or upon a motor vehicle in
or about a place of business licensed to sell cereal malt beverages shall be
served any cereal malt beverage for consumption therein or thereon; nor shall
any person while in or upon a motor vehicle located or situated in or about a
place of business licensed to sell cereal malt beverages drink or consume any
cereal malt beverage.
   D.   Zoning Violations. No license shall be granted to any person to
maintain a place of business in violation of the zoning ordinances of this
City.
   E.   Cleanliness. The place of business and all equipment used in connection
with the cereal malt beverage business shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition. Each place of business licensed to sell cereal malt beverages at
retail generally shall have indoor toilets connected with sewer systems of this
City and shall comply with the Plumbing Code (see Title 9, Chapter 3 of this
Code) of this City.
   F.   Spiking Or Mixing Drinks Prohibited. Every person operating any
establishment or place of business selling cereal malt beverages shall prevent
patrons from spiking any beverage sold to such patron by mixing therewith
alcohol, cologne, spirits, liquor or alcoholic beverage so as to change such
beverage into an alcoholic beverage on said premises where said business is
conducted.
   G.   Sales Prohibited.
      1.   Persons Under Influence: Persons operating such place of business
are forbidden to sell any such beverage to any person under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or to permit any such person to remain on the premises or
to allow such person to disturb the peace and quiet of any person in such place
of business, and said person so operating the place of business shall notify
the Chief of Police of the presence of any such person upon said premises or in
said place of business.
      2.   Minors: No person under the age of twenty-one (21) shall be
permitted to buy or drink any cereal malt beverage in or about any business
licensed to sell said beverage.
   H.   Employment Of Minors. No person under the age of twenty-one (21) shall
be permitted to work in any place of business licensed to sell cereal malt
beverages for consumption on the premises. (1983 Code §§ 6-106, and 6-109 -6-
115; amd. Ord. 848, 8-15-1983; 1998 Code; Ord. 1278, 6-16-2025; Ord. 1280, 7-7-
2025)
3-1A-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Notice; Reasons Specified: The City Council, upon five (5) days' notice
to the person holding such license, shall revoke such license for any one of
the following reasons:
      1.   False Information: If a licensee has fraudulently obtained the
license by giving false information in the application therefor; or
      2.   Violations: If the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
this Article or any other ordinance of the City prescribing rules or
regulations relating to "cereal malt beverages", as defined in Section
3-1A-1 of this Article or if the licensee has violated any law of the State for
which violation the City is authorized by law to revoke the license; or
      3.   Ineligibility: If the licensee has become ineligible to obtain a
license in this Article; or
      4.   Drunkenness; Permitting Intoxication: Drunkenness of the person
holding such license or permitting any intoxicated person to remain in such
place; or (1983 Code § 6-108)
      5.   Sales To Minors: The sale of cereal malt beverages to those under
the age of twenty one (21) years; or (1983 Code § 6-108; amd. 1998 Code)
      6.   Nonpayment Of Fee: The nonpayment of any license fee; or
      7.   Gambling: For permitting gambling in or upon such premises; or
      8.   Mixing Drinks: For permitting any person to mix drinks with
materials purchased in said place of business or brought in for this purpose;
or
      9.   Employment Of Unauthorized Persons: For the employment of persons
who have been adjudged guilty of felony or any violation of the intoxicating
liquor law; or (1983 Code § 6-108)
      10.   Employment Of Minors: For the employment of persons under twenty
one (21) years of age in dispensing cereal malt beverages; or (1983 Code § 6-
108; amd. 1998 Code)
      11.   Expired Federal Stamp: For purchasing or displaying a federal
retail liquor tax stamp expiring after June 30, 1937, issued by the United
States treasury department, except where issued for industrial, mechanical,
scientific and medicinal purposes.
   B.   Appeal: Within twenty (20) days after the order of the city council
revoking any license, the licensee may appeal to the district court of the
county in the manner as now provided by law in appeals from the municipal
court.
   C.   Issuance Of New License: In case of the revocation of the license of
any licensee, no new license shall be issued to such person or any person
acting for or on his behalf, for a period of six (6) months thereafter. (1983
Code § 6-108)
3-1A-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1998 Code)
3-1A-9: SPECIAL EVENT RETAILERS PERMIT:
   A.   The city shall be authorized to issue a special event retailers permit
to any person, which shall allow the permit holder to offer for sale, sell and
serve cereal malt beverage for consumption on unpermitted premises, which may
be open to the public.
   B.   Any person desiring a special event retailers permit shall make
application therefor in writing to the governing body through the city clerk
and accompany their application with the required permit fee. The application
shall be certified and be upon a form prepared by the city clerk and shall
contain the information as far as is applicable as is required by this article.
All applications for special event retailers permits shall be made twenty one
(21) days prior to the date of the event.
   C.   All such special event retailers permits shall be valid for a period of
no more than three (3) days as specified in the permit and at the place
specified in the application. It is unlawful for any person to sell the cereal
malt beverages at any time other than the three (3) day period specified or at
a place other than as specified in the license application and approved by the
governing body.
   D.   The fee for special event retailers permits shall be twenty-five
dollars ($25.00) per day.
   E.   No more than four (4) special event retailers permits shall be issued
to any person during any calendar year.
   F.   All provisions of this chapter not inconsistent with the stated terms
of this section shall apply to special event retailers permits. No license
shall be issued unless all of the criteria for a license established by this
section and otherwise in this chapter have been met. In addition thereto, no
special event retailers permit shall be issued unless adequate trash
receptacles are provided and sanitation provisions are made. The applicant is
responsible for the litter and other material during and after the event and in
addition, the applicant is responsible for demonstrating that adequate parking
is available.
   G.   Each special event retailers permit shall specify the premises for
which the permit is issued and shall specify the hours and dates for which the
permit is issued.
   H.   A special event retailers permit is not transferable or assignable.
   I.   All local ordinances and state statutes for the sale and consumption of
cereal malt beverages apply to holders of special event retailers permit.
   J.   The special event retailers permit shall be displayed in plain view on
the premises for which it is issued. (Ord. 1123, 8-1-2011; amd. Ord. 1239, 7-
18-2022)
ARTICLE B. ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS
SECTION:
3-1B-1: Defined
3-1B-2: Occupation Tax
3-1B-3: Late Payment Penalty
3-1B-4: Display Of Receipt
3-1B-5: Rules, Regulations And Requirements
3-1B-6: Penalty
3-1B-1: DEFINED:
"Alcoholic liquor" includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being; but shall not include
any beer or cereal malt beverage containing not more than three and two-tenths
percent (3.2%) of alcohol by weight. (1983 Code § 6-201)
3-1B-2: OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Levied: There is hereby levied a biennial occupation tax for each
calendar year on each retailer of alcoholic liquor (including beer containing
more than 3.2 percent of alcohol by weight) for consumption off the premises
(sales in the original package only) in the sum of six hundred dollars
($600.00), who has a retailer's license issued by the state director of
alcoholic beverage control, which tax shall be paid before business is begun
under an original state license and within ten (10) days after any renewal of a
state license.
   B.   Payment; Receipt: The holder of a license for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquors by the package in the city, issued by the state director of
alcoholic beverage control, shall present such license when applying to pay the
occupation tax levied in subsection A of this section and the tax shall be
received and receipt issued for the period covered by the state license by the
city clerk. (Ord. 1124, 9-6-2011)
3-1B-3: LATE PAYMENT PENALTY:
Any person having a state license to sell retail alcoholic liquor by the
package who shall fail to pay the occupation tax herein levied and within the
time prescribed shall be assessed a penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for each day's violation; provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to
prohibit the city from collecting the occupation tax by any procedure
authorized by law. (Ord. 1124, 9-6-2011)
3-1B-4: DISPLAY OF RECEIPT:
Every licensee shall cause the city alcoholic liquor retailer's occupation tax
receipt to be placed in plain view next to or below the state license in a
conspicuous place in the licensed premises. (Ord. 1124, 9-6-2011)
3-1B-5: RULES, REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Hours And Days Of Sale. No person shall sell at retail any alcoholic
liquor:
      1.   On the day of any national, state, county or city election,
including primary elections, during the hours the polls are open, within the
political area in which such election is being held;
      2.   On any Sunday before nine o’clock (9:00) a.m. or after eight o’clock
(8:00) p.m.;
      3.   On Decoration (Memorial) Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Easter
Sunday, Thanksgiving Day, or Christmas Day; and
      4.   Before nine o'clock (9:00) a.m. or after eleven o'clock (11:00) p.m.
on any day when sale is permitted.
   B.   Location Restrictions. No license shall be issued for the sale at
retail of any alcoholic liquor on premises which:
      1.   Are located in areas not zoned for general commercial or business
purposes;
      2.   Are located within two hundred feet (200') of any public or
parochial school, college or church; provided, that if any such school, college
or church shall be established within two hundred feet (200') of any licensed
retail premises after such premises has been licensed, then such premises shall
be an eligible location for retail licensing; and
      3.   Do not conform to the building ordinances or laws of the City.
   C.   Employment Of Certain Persons. It shall be unlawful for any retailer of
alcoholic liquor to employ any person in connection with the operation of such
retail business who:
      1.   Is under the age of twenty-one (21); or
      2.   Has been adjudged guilty of a felony.
   D.   Consumption.
      1.   On Premises: It shall be unlawful for a retailer of alcoholic liquor
to permit the consumption of alcoholic liquor on the premises by any person.
      2.   Prohibited Places; Exceptions; Penalty:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection D2b of this Section, no person
shall drink or consume alcoholic liquor upon the public streets, alleys, roads
or highways, parks, in beer parlors, taverns, pool halls or places to which the
general public has access unless an admission fee is charged or collected; upon
property owned or leased by the City; or inside vehicles whether operating or
not while upon the public streets, alleys, roads, highways or lots.
         b.   The provisions of subsection D2a of this Section shall not apply
to the drinking or consumption of alcoholic liquor:
            (1)   Upon real property leased by a city to others under the
provisions of Kansas Statutes Annotated sections 12-1740 through 12-1749,
inclusive, and amendments thereto, if such real property is actually being used
for hotel or motel purposes or purposes incidental thereto.
            (2)   In a club which is licensed by the State Director of
Alcoholic Beverage Control and in which has a proper occupation tax receipt
issued by the City, and which is located upon property owned or operated by an
airport authority created pursuant to Kansas Statutes Annotated chapter 27.
(1983 Code § 6-206 - 6-209; amd. Ord. 860, 9-17-1984; 1998 Code; Ord. 1278, 6-
16-2025; Ord. 1280, 7-7-2025)
3-1B-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Article shall be subject to penalty
as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PRIVATE CLUBS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Occupation Tax
3-2-2: Late Payment Penalty
3-2-3: Display Of License
3-2-1: OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Levied: There is hereby levied a biennial occupation tax on each class
A club, class B club and drinking establishment licensee in the sum of three
hundred dollars ($300.00), who has any such license issued by the state
director of alcoholic beverage control, which tax shall be paid before business
is begun under an original state license and within ten (10) days after a
renewal of a state license.
   B.   Payment; Receipt: The holder of a license for a class A club, class B
club or drinking establishment license in the city, issued by the state
director of alcoholic beverage control, shall present such license when
applying to pay the occupation tax levied in subsection A of this section and
the tax shall be received and receipt issued for the period covered by the
state license by the city clerk. (Ord. 1124, 9-6-2011)
3-2-2: LATE PAYMENT PENALTY:
Any person, copartnership or association having a state license to operate a
class A club, class B club or drinking establishment who shall fail to pay the
occupation tax herein levied and within the time prescribed, shall be assessed
a penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each day's violation; provided,
that nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the city from collecting the
occupation tax by any procedure authorized by law. (Ord. 1124, 9-6-2011)
3-2-3: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Every licensee shall cause the city alcoholic liquor license to be placed in
plain view next to or below the state license in a conspicuous place in the
licensed premises. (Ord. 1124, 9-6-2011)
CHAPTER 3
TEMPORARY BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Penalty
3-3-3: Exemption
3-3-4: Enforcement
3-3-5: Prohibited Acts
3-3-6: Protection Of Lawns, Yards
3-3-7: Fraud
3-3-8: License Required
3-3-9: Issuance Of License
3-3-10: Fee For Permit
3-3-11: License Denial; Revocation
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: Any entity that has a permanent physical location
within Scott County, Kansas, which: a) has been certified as a not for profit
organization under the Internal Revenue Code, and/or b) has religious,
charitable, or benevolent function. As used in this definition, a charitable
organization is an organization which exclusively, and in a manner consistent
with existing laws, operates to address and assist with physical, mental, or
spiritual needs of persons. Commercial, for profit organizations or businesses
shall not be considered charitable organizations.
   ITINERANT BUSINESS: Any person or business engaging temporarily in the
retail sale of goods, wares, merchandise, or services within the City,
including any person who for the purpose of conducting such business, rents,
leases or occupies any room, building, hotel, motel, structure, parking lot,
vacant lot, or motor vehicle of any kind, to sell goods, wares, merchandise, or
services or sell goods, wares, merchandise, or services house to house, door to
door, or place to place.
   LOCAL ITINERANT BUSINESS LICENSE: A license for any business that has a
permanent physical location of not less than one thousand (1,000) square feet
of retail space within the City, and has operated for a minimum of twelve (12)
consecutive months.
   NONCOMMERCIAL ACTIVITY: Any activity conducted for personal use or enjoyment
without the intent of realizing a profit or recovering costs through the sale
of goods, wares, merchandise or services.
   NONLOCAL ITINERANT BUSINESS LICENSE: A license for any business that does
not have a permanent physical location of at least one thousand (1,000) square
feet of retail space within the City, or has a permanent physical location
within the City but has not operated for the minimum requirement of twelve (12)
consecutive months. (Ord. 1171, 11-16-2015; amd. Ord. 1274, 3-17-2025)
3-3-2: PENALTY:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter is a Class C offense, punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 1171, 11-16-2015; amd. Ord. 1274, 3-17-2025)
3-3-3: EXEMPTION:
The following activities, businesses, organizations or persons shall be exempt
from the licensing provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Activities or businesses where a permit has been obtained, if
applicable, or where such activity or business is sponsored in part by the
City, civic organization, not for profit organization, charitable
organizations, public or private schools, or educational institutions.
   B.   Auctions regulated by this Code or State Statute.
   C.   Garage sales at private residences.
   D.   Sales of farm products, value-added farm products, nursery products,
foliage plants and handcrafted items including, but not limited to, jewelry,
soaps, silk flowers and quilts at an organized farmers market at specified
places and times approved by the Governing Body provided:
      1.   Farm products include but are not limited to agricultural products
such as fresh fruits, vegetables, mushrooms, herbs, nuts, eggs, honey or other
bee products, flowers and nursery stock, all subject to the licensing
requirements contained in subsection D6 of this section.
      2.   Value-added farm products are products made by a producer from a
farm product, including but not limited to some baked goods, jams and jellies,
or other prepared foods, all subject to the licensing requirements contained in
subsection D6 of this section.
      3.   It is conducted under the supervision of a market manager, who is a
person or organization that manages the operation of the farmers' market,
assigns space to vendors, directs the maintenance of the premises and records
and performs related duties as required.
      4.   All vendors must comply with the market manager's regulations.
      5.   Food vendors shall comply with all Regulations and Best Practices
contained in Food Safety for Kansas Farmers Market Vendors published by Kansas
State University Agricultural Experiment Station and Cooperative Extension
Service, as revised from time to time, and obtain and exhibit all licenses
required by the Kansas Department of Agriculture Food Safety and Lodging
Program.
      6.   All vendors shall submit to the market manager proof of a current
sales tax license from the State of Kansas or proof of exempt status from State
sales tax.
   E.   Food service establishments, except as noted herein, that are otherwise
regulated and inspected by the Kansas Department of Health and Environment,
notwithstanding the foregoing, this exemption specifically excludes mobile
restaurants, mobile food service units, street food vendors, or push food carts
as included in the definition of food establishment in Kansas Statutes
Annotated 65-656.
   F.   Sales at wholesale to retail merchants by commercial travelers or
selling agents in the usual course of business.
   G.   Sales to the owner or legal occupant of residential premises at such
premises pursuant to prior invitation by the owner or legal occupant. Such
invitation shall have been issued by the owner or legal occupant at least
twenty four (24) hours prior to the sale and the invitation shall not have been
solicited in person, but by other means such as telephone, mailing, e-mail,
internet, or other advertisement. (Ord. 1181, 4-3-2017; amd. Ord. 1274, 3-17-
2025)
3-3-4: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of any law enforcement officer to require any person
engaged in activities defined in this chapter who is not known by such officer
to be duly licensed, to produce the person's local or nonlocal itinerant
business license and to enforce the provisions of this chapter against any
person found to be in violation. The City Clerk, the Chief of Police, or any
law enforcement officer shall have the authority to order any person or
business found to be in noncompliance with the license requirements of this
chapter, to immediately cease and desist doing business until the appropriate
license is obtained. (Ord. 1171, 11-16-2015; amd. Ord. 1274, 3-17-2025)
3-3-5: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any itinerant business to:
   A.   Conduct business or carry on activities in violations of any zoning
requirements of the City, including setback requirements.
   B.   Conduct business or carry on activities other than between the hours of
nine o'clock (9:00) a.m. and nine o'clock (9:00) p.m, with the exception of any
mobile restaurants, mobile food service units, street food vendors, or push
food carts which can conduct business between seven o'clock (7:00) a.m. and
twelve o'clock (12:00) a.m.
   C.   Fail to provide adequate parking for customers or other persons going
to and from the activity or business conducted by the itinerant business, or to
allow or encourage any traffic or parking congestion which interferes with
traffic flow or the use of parking facilities by permanent businesses entitled
to use the parking areas.
   D.   Use any electronic device for amplification in an outdoor area or to
otherwise create, or gather people who create, noise sufficient so as to
disturb the peace, quiet or repose of surrounding residential or commercial
areas.
   E.   Provide any false or misleading information in completing the license
application or fail to obtain permission of the property owner where such
activity or business is being conducted.
   F.   Fail to provide, at the request of the purchaser or customer, a written
receipt for purchases exceeding five dollars ($5.00).
   G.   Fail to provide any customer, or other person, with his/her name, the
name of the company or organization represented, the name of the product, a
valid copy of the active temporary business license as issued by City of Scott
City, or to make any representation as to identity which is false or
misleading.
   H.   Fail to allow authorized law enforcement officers or City employees to
enter into or upon the premises or to otherwise interfere with any inspection
of the premises or business.
   I.   Fail to remove any structure, device, trash or debris caused, created
or associated with the itinerant businesses' activities in an outdoor area.
   J.   Erect or display more than one (1) sign or any sign greater than
sixteen (16) square feet in total area. Streamers, pennants, searchlights and
any device with flashing, blinking, rotating or moving actions or messages are
prohibited. No signage shall be placed in a public right-of-way.
   K.   Erect or construct any structure, tent or building greater than one
hundred twenty (120) square feet.
   L.   Conduct business or carry on activities within fifty feet (50') of any
driveway entrance or access lane from a public street to an existing business.
   M.   Conduct business or carry on activities within two hundred feet (200')
of a residential district.
   N.   Conduct or carry on more than one (1) itinerant business or activity on
the same property at any one time.
   O.   Conduct business or carry on activities within the public right-of-way
or other publicly owned property. (Ord. 1171, 11-16-2015; amd. Ord. 1254, 2-21-
2023; Ord. 1274, 3-17-2025)
3-3-6: PROTECTION OF LAWNS, YARDS:
It shall be unlawful for any person engaging in an itinerant business to cut
across or walk upon any lawn, front yard or courtyard, except upon sidewalks or
walkways if such walkways are provided, or upon a regularly established path
where no sidewalk or walkway has been provided to a house or other building.
(Ord. 1171, 11-16-2015; amd. Ord. 1274, 3-17-2025)
3-3-7: FRAUD:
All persons licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall certify that
while doing business in the City they will strictly comply with all the
ordinances of the City. Any licensee who shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating
or misrepresentation, whether through themselves or through an employee, while
doing business in the City shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 1171, 11-16-2015; amd. Ord. 1274, 3-17-2025)
3-3-8: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person not exempt by the provisions of section
3-3-3 of this chapter shall engage in the activities coming under this chapter
within the City without first obtaining a license. Any applicant for a license
under this chapter shall file with the City Clerk a sworn application on a form
furnished by the City Clerk, which shall give information, or provide
documentation, as follows:
   A.   Name, date of birth, and permanent residential address of applicant;
   B.   If the applicant is not an individual, the names and addresses of the
officers of the corporation or members of the partnership, association, or
other entity. If the applicant is a corporation, the name and permanent address
of the applicant's registered agent or office;
   C.   Physical description of the applicant and each individual who will be
working in Scott City; accompanied by a copy of driver's license(s) for each
individual;
   D.   Date(s) and time(s) for which the license is desired;
   E.   A description of the location and nature of the business, the goods,
wares, merchandise or services to be sold, and the manner in which the sales
will occur;
   F.   Description of any temporary structures to be erected, constructed and
used by applicant;
   G.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has within two (2) years
prior to the date of the application been convicted of any felony or
misdemeanor of any kind, or a violation of any Municipal ordinance regulating
business licenses;
   H.   A signed statement from the applicant indicating that all of the
information provided is true, correct, and complete; and
   I.   Proof of a current sales tax license from the State of Kansas or proof
of exempt status from State sales tax. (Ord. 1171, 11-16-2015; amd. Ord. 1274,
3-17-2025)
3-3-9: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
The City Clerk, and the Chief of Police, when necessary, shall examine the
application filed under this chapter and shall make, or cause to be made, such
further investigation of the application and the applicant deemed necessary. A
license shall be denied if the applicant has been convicted of a crime that
bears a reasonable relationship to the licensed business. The licensee shall be
notified by the City Clerk of the decision on the issuance or denial of the
license within three (3) business days after the application has been filed.
Such license, when issued, shall contain the signature and seal of the issuing
officer and shall show the name and address of the licensee, the name and
Driver's License photo of each individual working in Scott City, the date of
issuance and length of time the license shall be operative, and the location
and nature of the business involved. The Clerk shall keep a permanent record of
all such licenses issued and submit a copy of such license to the Chief of
Police. The licensee(s) shall carry the license at all times when conducting
business in the City. (Ord. 1171, 11-16-2015; amd. Ord. 1274, 3-17-2025)
3-3-10: FEE FOR PERMIT:
Before a permit is issued, there shall be paid to the City Clerk fees as herein
provided for a permit which will allow a temporary business to operate within
the City as specified in the application. The fee for the background check is
thirty dollars ($30.00) for each individual working in Scott City and the fee
for the permit shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each day the permit is
requested but not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for any six (6) month
period. Background check determinations will be valid for one year from the
date of clearance. (Ord. 1171, 11-16-2015; amd. Ord. 1274, 3-17-2025)
3-3-11: LICENSE DENIAL; REVOCATION:
   A.   The City Clerk and/or the Chief of Police may deny or revoke any
license issued under this chapter, for any of the following causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license.
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business.
      3.   Any violation of this chapter.
      4.   Conducting the business in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as
to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or general welfare of the City.
      5.   Noncompliance with section
3-3-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Notice of the revocation of a license shall be in writing to the
applicant, at the residence address listed on the application, and the City
Clerk shall set forth the grounds of revocation.
   C.   Any person aggrieved by the action of the City Clerk in the denial or
revocation of a license shall have the right of appeal to the Governing Body.
Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the City Clerk within fourteen (14)
days after notice of revocation or denial of the license has been mailed to
such applicant's last known address setting forth the grounds for appeal. The
applicant or licensee may not engage in the itinerant business during the
appeal process. The Governing Body shall set a time and place for a hearing on
the appeal and provide notice of the hearing to the applicant. The decision of
the Governing Body on such appeal shall be final. (Ord. 1171, 11-16-2015; amd.
Ord. 1274, 3-17-2025)
CHAPTER 4
TRANSIENT GUEST TAX
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Tax Levied
3-4-3: Payment Of Tax
3-4-4: Inspection Of Records
3-4-5: Violation
3-4-6: Collection Of Tax
3-4-7: Fund Established
3-4-8: Use Of Funds
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning
respectively ascribed to them herein:
BUSINESS: Any person engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting
living quarters, sleeping accommodations, rooms or a part thereof in connection
with any motel, hotel or tourist court.
   HOTEL, MOTEL OR TOURIST COURT: Any structure or building which contains
rooms furnished for the purposes of providing lodging which may or may not also
provide meals, entertainment or various other personal services to transient
guests, and which is kept used, maintained, advertised or held out to the
public as a place where sleeping accommodations are sought for pay or
compensation by transient or permanent guests and having more than two (2)
bedrooms furnished for the accommodation of such guests.
   PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, joint venture or
other association of persons.
   TRANSIENT GUESTS: A person who occupies a room in a hotel, motel or tourist
court for not more than twenty eight (28) consecutive days. (Ord. 8, 9-19-2005)
3-4-2: TAX LEVIED:
   A.   A transient guest tax of five percent (5%) shall be levied in the city
of Scott City, Kansas, upon the gross rental receipts derived from or paid by
transient guests for lodging or sleeping accommodations, exclusive of charges
for incidental services or facilities in any hotel, motel, or tourist court.
The effective date of this tax shall be on the first day of the calendar
quarter next following the thirtieth day after the date of the receipt by the
department of revenue of the ordinance codified herein.
   B.   The transient guest tax levied pursuant to this chapter shall be based
upon the gross rental receipts collected by any business. (Ord. 8, 9-19-2005)
3-4-3: PAYMENT OF TAX:
   A.   By Consumers: The tax levied pursuant to this chapter shall be paid by
the consumer or user to the business and it shall be the duty of each and every
business to collect from the consumer or user the full amount of any such tax,
or an amount equal as nearly possible or practicable to the average equivalent
thereto. Each business collecting the tax levied hereunder shall be responsible
for paying over the same to the state department of revenue in the manner
prescribed by this chapter and the state department of revenue shall administer
and enforce the collection of such tax. (Ord. 8, 9-19-2005)
   B.   By Businesses: The tax levied and collected pursuant to section
3-4-2 of this chapter shall become due and payable by the business monthly on
or before the twenty fifth day of the month immediately succeeding the month in
which it is collected with the first payment due and payable on or before the
day upon which remittance of sales tax is due to the department of revenue, but
any person filing an annual or quarterly return under the Kansas retailer's
sales tax act, as prescribed in Kansas Statutes Annotated 79-3607, may, with
the approval of the secretary of revenue and upon such conditions as the
secretary of revenue may prescribe, pay the tax required by this chapter on the
same basis and at the same time he or she pays said retailer's sales tax. Each
business shall make a true report to the department of revenue, on a form
prescribed by the secretary of revenue, providing such information as may be
necessary to determine the amounts to which such tax shall apply for all gross
rental receipts for the applicable month or months, which report shall be
accompanied by the tax disclosed thereby. Records of gross rental receipts
shall be kept separate and apart from the records of other retail sales made by
a business in order to facilitate the examination of books and records as
provided herein. (Ord. 1064, 2-6-2006)
3-4-4: INSPECTION OF RECORDS:
The secretary of revenue or the secretary's authorized representative shall
have the right at all reasonable times during business hours to make such
examination and inspection of the books and records of a business as may be
necessary to determine the accuracy of such reports. (Ord. 8, 9-19-2005)
3-4-5: VIOLATION:
If, with respect to sections
3-4-2 through
3-4-4 of this chapter, inclusive, any taxpayer shall fail to pay any tax
levied, fail to file a return, fail to supply information necessary to
determine the accuracy of the taxpayer's returns, files a false or fraudulent
return, or wilfully violates regulations of the secretary of revenue then such
taxpayer shall be subject to interest and penalties as set out in Kansas
Statutes Annotated 12-1698a. (Ord. 8, 9-19-2005)
3-4-6: COLLECTION OF TAX:
The administration and collection of said tax shall be by the secretary of
revenue as provided in subsection (c) of Kansas Statutes Annotated 12-1698 and
herein. (Ord. 8, 9-19-2005)
3-4-7: FUND ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established within the city financial records a special revenue
fund to be designated as the transient guest tax fund. All monies received by
the city from the secretary of revenue of the state of Kansas, as provided
herein, shall be credited to the transient guest tax fund. (Ord. 8, 9-19-2005)
3-4-8: USE OF FUNDS:
The monies on deposit in the transient guest tax fund, subject to lawful budget
appropriations, may be used for the following purposes:
   A.   To contract with any agency, organization or group of firms to promote
conventions and tourism within the city and its environs;
   B.   To provide for the operation, maintenance, expansion or development of
city facilities connected with convention and tourism;
   C.   To create innovative projects and activities promoting conventions and
tourism;
   D.   To promote the general economic welfare of the city and its environs,
including the attraction of industry. (Ord. 8, 9-19-2005)
CHAPTER 5
TELECOMMUNICATIONS LOCAL EXCHANGE SERVICE PROVIDERS FRANCHISE
SECTION:
3-5-1: Franchise Agreement Required
3-5-2: Violation; Penalty
3-5-1: FRANCHISE AGREEMENT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or entity to provide
local exchange telephony services within the city of Scott City, Kansas,
without first entering into a valid contract franchise ordinance providing for
the assessment of franchise fees to the city of Scott City in an amount equal
to those assessed to all similarly situated local exchange service providers.
(Ord. 1062, 12-5-2005)
3-5-2: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, corporation, or entity providing such services without having
previously entered into a contract franchise ordinance shall be in violation of
this chapter and, upon conviction thereof shall be punished by the imposition
of a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) which fine shall be separately assessed as to each and every
day in which such services are provided without the existence of the required
contract franchise ordinance. (Ord. 1062, 12-5-2005)
CHAPTER 6
RETAILERS' SALES TAX
SECTION:
3-6-1: Tax Imposed
3-6-2: Application And Exemptions
3-6-1: TAX IMPOSED:
A majority of the electors voting thereon having approved, at a special
question election held on November 7, 2006, the levying of a retailers' sales
tax in the city of Scott City, for the purpose of avoiding property tax
increases and giving voters a choice as to the method used to finance public
services, as authorized by Kansas Statutes Annotated 12-187 et seq., as
amended, there is hereby levied a city retailers' sales tax in the amount of
one-half of one percent (0.5%) to take effect on April 1, 2007. (Ord. 1074, 12-
4-2006)
3-6-2: APPLICATION AND EXEMPTIONS:
Except as may otherwise be provided by law, such tax shall be identical in its
application and exemptions therefrom to the Kansas retailers' sales tax act and
all laws and administrative rules and regulations of the Kansas department of
revenue relating to the state retailers' sales tax shall apply to such city
retailers' sales tax insofar as such laws and regulations may be made
applicable. The services of the department of revenue shall be utilized to
administer, enforce and collect such tax. (Ord. 1074, 12-4-2006)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Fire Department   1
Fire Insurance Proceeds Fund   2
Dangerous And Unfit Structures   3
Environmental Quality Of Residential Neighborhoods   4
Health Nuisances   5
Weeds   6
Solid Waste   7
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Organization; Appointments (Rep. by Ord. 1219, 9-7-2021, eff. 1-1-2022)
4-1-2: Fire Chief; Duties (Rep. by Ord. 1219, 9-7-2021, eff. 1-1-2022)
4-1-3: Absence Of Fire Chief (Rep. by Ord. 1219, 9-7-2021, eff. 1-1-2022)
4-1-4: Compensation (Rep. by Ord. 1219, 9-7-2021, eff. 1-1-2022)
4-1-5: Practices And Drills (Rep. by Ord. 1219, 9-7-2021, eff. 1-1-2022)
4-1-6: Right Of Way; Apparatus And Equipment
4-1-7: Obstructing Prohibited
4-1-8: Penalty
4-1-1: ORGANIZATION; APPOINTMENTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 1219, 9-7-2021, eff. 1-1-2022)
4-1-2: FIRE CHIEF; DUTIES:
(Rep. by Ord. 1219, 9-7-2021, eff. 1-1-2022)
4-1-3: ABSENCE OF FIRE CHIEF:
(Rep. by Ord. 1219, 9-7-2021, eff. 1-1-2022)
4-1-4: COMPENSATION:
(Rep. by Ord. 1219, 9-7-2021, eff. 1-1-2022)
4-1-5: PRACTICES AND DRILLS:
(Rep. by Ord. 1219, 9-7-2021, eff. 1-1-2022)
4-1-6: RIGHT OF WAY; APPARATUS AND EQUIPMENT:
All fire apparatus and equipment shall have the exclusive right of way over and
through all streets, avenues, alleys and public thoroughfares in the City while
enroute to all fires or in response to any fire alarm, and no person shall
obstruct or hinder said apparatus in any manner. (1983 Code § 4-106)
4-1-7: OBSTRUCTING PROHIBITED:
   A.   Fire Hydrant: No person shall place or cause to be placed in, on or
about any fire hydrant any rubbish, building material, fence or other
obstruction of any character whatsoever, in any manner to obstruct, hinder or
delay the Fire Department in the performance of its duties in case of fire.
(1983 Code § 4-107)
   B.   Fire Department: It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct any
street, alley or fire hydrant or create any condition that might hinder or
delay the Fire Department in the performance of its duties. (1983 Code § 4-108)
4-1-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE INSURANCE PROCEEDS FUND
SECTION:
4-2-1: Scope And Application
4-2-2: Lien In Favor Of City
4-2-3: Procedure Upon Final Settlement
4-2-4: Fund Created; Deposit Of Monies
4-2-5: Investigation; Removal Of Structure
4-2-6: Excess Monies After Removal
4-2-7: Disposition Of Funds; Release Of Lien
4-2-8: Effect Upon Insurance Policies
4-2-9: Insurers; Liability
4-2-1: SCOPE AND APPLICATION:
The City is hereby authorized to utilize the procedures established by Kansas
Statutes Annotated section 40-3901 et seq., whereby no insurance company shall
pay a claim of a named insured for loss or damage to any building or other
structure located within the City, arising out of any fire or explosion, where
the amount recoverable for the loss or damage to the building or other
structure under all policies is in excess of seventy five percent (75%) of the
face value of the policy covering such building or other insured structure,
unless there is compliance with the procedures set out in this Chapter. (Ord.
948, 4-6-1992)
4-2-2: LIEN IN FAVOR OF CITY:
   A.   Created: The City Council hereby creates a lien in favor of the City on
the proceeds of any insurance policy based upon covered claim payment made for
damage or loss to a building or other structure located within the City, caused
by or arising out of any fire or explosion, where the amount recoverable for
all the loss or damage to the building or other structure under all policies is
in excess of seventy five percent (75%) of the face value of the policy
covering such building or other insured structure. The lien arises upon any
unpaid tax, special ad valorem levy or any other charge imposed upon real
property by or on behalf of the City, which is an encumbrance on real property,
whether or not evidenced by written instrument, or such tax, levy, assessment,
expense or other charge that has remained undischarged for at least one year
prior to the filing of a proof of loss.
   B.   Encumbrances: Prior to final settlement on any claim covered by
subsection A of this Section, the insurer shall contact the County Treasurer to
determine whether any such encumbrances are presently in existence. If the same
are found to exist, the insurer shall execute and transmit in an amount equal
to that owing under the encumbrances a draft payable to the County Treasurer.
   C.   Pro Rata Basis: Such transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro rata basis
by all insurance companies insuring the building or other structure. (Ord. 948,
4-6-1992)
4-2-3: PROCEDURE UPON FINAL SETTLEMENT:
   A.   Draft Executed To City Treasurer: When final settlement on a covered
claim has been agreed to or arrived at between the named insured and the
company, and the final settlement exceeds seventy five percent (75%) of the
face value of the policy covering any building or other insured structure, and
when all amounts due the holder of a first real estate mortgage against the
building or other structure, pursuant to the terms of the policy and
endorsements thereto, shall have been paid, the insurance company shall execute
a draft payable to the City Treasurer in an amount equal to the sum of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or ten percent (10%) of the covered claim payment,
whichever is less, unless the Building Inspector has issued a certificate to
the insurance company that the insured has removed the damaged building or
other structure, as well as all associated debris, or repaired, rebuilt or
otherwise made the premises safe and secure. (Ord. 948, 4-6-1992; amd. 1998
Code)
   B.   Transfer Of Funds; Pro Rata Basis: Such transfer of funds shall be on a
pro rata basis by all companies insuring the building or other structure.
Policy proceeds remaining after the transfer to the City shall be disbursed in
accordance with the policy terms.
   C.   Notice Requirements: Upon the transfer of the funds as required by
subsection A of this Section, the insurance company shall provide the City with
the name and address of the named insured, the total amount of the final
settlement agreed to or arrived at between the insured by registered mail,
notifying them that said insurance proceeds have been received by the City and
apprise them of the procedures to be followed under this Chapter. (Ord. 948, 4-
6-1992)
4-2-4: FUND CREATED; DEPOSIT OF MONIES:
The City Treasurer is hereby authorized and shall create a fund to be known as
the Fire Insurance Proceeds Fund. All monies received by the City Treasurer as
provided for by this Chapter shall be placed in said Fund and deposited in an
interest-bearing account. (Ord. 948, 4-6-1992)
4-2-5: INVESTIGATION; REMOVAL OF STRUCTURE:
   A.   Notification To Building Inspector: Upon receipt of monies as provided
for by this Chapter, the City Treasurer shall immediately notify the Building
Inspector of said receipt, and transmit all documentation received from the
insurance company to the Building Inspector.
   B.   Determination: Within twenty (20) days of the receipt of said monies,
the Building Inspector shall determine, after prior investigation, whether the
City shall instigate proceedings under the provisions of Kansas Statutes
Annotated section 12-1750 et seq., as amended.
   C.   Notification To Initiate Proceedings: Prior to the expiration of the
twenty (20) days established by subsection B of this Section, the Building
Inspector shall notify the City Treasurer whether he or she intends to initiate
proceedings under Kansas Statutes Annotated section 12-1750 et seq., as
amended.
   D.   Time Limit To Proceed: If the Building Inspector has determined that
proceedings under Kansas Statutes Annotated section 12-1750 et seq., as
amended, shall be initiated, he or she will do so immediately, but no later
than thirty (30) days after receipt of the monies by the City Treasurer.
   E.   No Proceedings; Return Of Funds: Upon notification to the City
Treasurer by the Building Inspector that no proceedings shall be initiated
under Kansas Statutes Annotated section 12-1750 et seq., as amended, the City
Treasurer shall return all such monies received, plus accrued interest, to the
insured as identified in the communication from the insurance company. Such
return shall be accomplished within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the
monies from the insurance company. (Ord. 948, 4-6-1992; amd. 1998 Code)
4-2-6: EXCESS MONIES AFTER REMOVAL:
If the Building Inspector has proceeded under the provisions of Kansas Statutes
Annotated section 12-1750 et seq., as amended, all monies in excess of that
which is ultimately necessary to comply with the provisions for the removal of
the building or structure, less salvage value, if any, shall be paid to the
insured. (Ord. 948, 4-6-1992; amd. 1998 Code)
4-2-7: DISPOSITION OF FUNDS; RELEASE OF LIEN:
If the Building Inspector, with regard to a building or other structure damaged
by fire or explosion, determines that it is necessary to act under Kansas
Statutes Annotated section 12-1756, any proceeds received by the City Treasurer
under the authority of subsection
4-2-3A of this Chapter relating to that building or other structure shall be
used to reimburse the City for any expenses incurred by the City in proceeding
under Kansas Statutes Annotated section 12-1756. Upon reimbursement from the
insurance proceeds, the Building Inspector shall immediately effect the release
of the lien resulting therefrom. Should the expenses incurred by the City
exceed the insurance proceeds paid over to the City Treasurer under subsection
4-2-3A of this Chapter, the Building Inspector shall publish a new lien as
authorized by Kansas Statutes Annotated section 12-1756, in an amount equal to
such excess expenses incurred. (Ord. 948, 4-6-1992; amd. 1998 Code)
4-2-8: EFFECT UPON INSURANCE POLICIES:
This Chapter shall not make the City a party to any insurance contract, nor is
the insurer liable to any party for any amount in excess of the proceeds
otherwise payable under its insurance policy. (Ord. 948, 4-6-1992)
4-2-9: INSURERS; LIABILITY:
Insurers complying with this Chapter or attempting in good faith to comply with
this Chapter shall be immune from civil and criminal liability and such action
shall not be deemed in violation of Kansas Statutes Annotated section 40-2404
and any amendments thereto, including withholding payment of any insurance
proceeds pursuant to this Chapter, or releasing or disclosing any information
pursuant to this Chapter. (Ord. 948, 4-6-1992)
CHAPTER 3
DANGEROUS AND UNFIT STRUCTURES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Purpose
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Enforcing Officer; Duties
4-3-4: Procedure; Petition
4-3-5: Same; Notice
4-3-6: Same; Publication
4-3-7: Same; Hearing, Order
4-3-8: Duty Of Owner
4-3-9: Same; Failure To Comply
4-3-10: Same; Make Site Safe
4-3-11: Assessment Of Costs
4-3-12: Immediate Hazard
4-3-13: Appeals From Order
4-3-14: Scope Of Chapter
4-3-1: PURPOSE:
The governing body has found that there exists within the corporate limits of
the city structures which are unfit for human use or habitation because of
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire or accidents, structural
defects or other conditions which render such structures unsafe, unsanitary or
otherwise inimical to the general welfare of the city, or conditions which
provide a general blight upon the neighborhood or surrounding properties. It is
hereby deemed necessary by the governing body to require or cause the repair,
closing or demolition or removal of such structures as provided in this
chapter. (K.S.A. 12-1751) (Ord. 1207, 7-6-2020)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
following meanings:
 
ENFORCING OFFICER The Building Inspector or his or her authorized
                  representative.
                  Shall include any building, wall, superstructure or other
STRUCTURE         structure which requires location on the ground or below the
                  ground, or is attached to something having a location on the
                  ground.
 
(K.S.A. 12-1750) (Ord. 1207, 7-6-2020)
4-3-3: ENFORCING OFFICER; DUTIES:
The enforcing officer is hereby authorized to exercise such powers as may be
necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter, including the following:
   A.   Inspect any structure which appears to be unsafe, dangerous or unfit
for human habitation;
   B.   Have authority to enter upon premises at reasonable hours for the
purpose of making such inspections. Entry shall be made to cause the least
possible inconvenience to any person in possession of the structure. If entry
is denied, the enforcing officer may seek an order for this purpose from a
court of competent jurisdiction;
   C.   Report all structures which he or she believes to be dangerous, unsafe
or unfit for human habitation to the governing body;
   D.   Receive petitions as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 1207, 7-6-2020)
4-3-4: PROCEDURE; PETITION:
Whenever a petition is filed with the enforcing officer by at least five (5)
residents charging that any structure is dangerous, unsafe or unfit for human
habitation, or whenever it appears to the enforcing officer on his or her own
motion that any structure is dangerous, unsafe or unfit for human habitation,
he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for
such charges, report such findings to the governing body. (Ord. 1207, 7-6-2020)
4-3-5: SAME; NOTICE:
The governing body upon receiving a report as provided in Section
4-3-4 shall by resolution fix a time and place at which the owner, the owner's
agent, any lienholder of records and any occupant of the structure may appear
and show cause why the structure should not be condemned and ordered repaired
or demolished. (K.S.A. 12-1752) (Ord. 1207, 7-6-2020)
4-3-6: SAME; PUBLICATION:
   A.   The resolution shall be published once each week for two (2)
consecutive weeks on the same day of each week. At least thirty (30) days shall
elapse between the last publication and the date set for the hearing.
   B.   A copy of the resolution shall be mailed by certified mail within three
(3) days after its first publication to each owner, agent, lienholder and
occupant at the last known place of residence and shall be marked "deliver to
addressee only." (K.S.A. 12-1752) (Ord. 1207, 7-6-2020)
4-3-7: SAME; HEARING, ORDER:
If, after notice and hearing, the governing body determines that the structure
under consideration is dangerous, unsafe or unfit for human use or habitation,
it shall state in writing its findings of fact in support of such determination
and shall cause the resolution to be published once in the official City
newspaper and a copy mailed to the owners, agents, lienholders of record and
occupants in the same manner provided for the notice of hearing. The resolution
shall fix a reasonable time within which the repair or removal of such
structure shall be commenced and a statement that if the owner of such
structure fails to commence the repair or removal of such structure within the
time stated or fails to diligently prosecute the same until the work is
completed, the governing body will cause the structure to be repaired or, razed
and removed. (Ord. 1207, 7-6-2020)
4-3-8: DUTY OF OWNER:
Whenever any structure within the City shall be found to be dangerous, unsafe
or unfit for human use or habitation, it shall be the duty and obligation of
the owner of the property to render the same secure and safe or to remove the
same. (Ord. 1207, 7-6-2020)
4-3-9: SAME; FAILURE TO COMPLY:
   A.   If, within the time specified in the order, the owner fails to comply
with the order to repair, alter, improve or vacate the structure, the enforcing
officer may cause the structure to be repaired, altered, improved, or to be
vacated and closed.
   B.   If, within the time specified in the order, the owner fails to comply
with the order to remove or demolish the structure, the enforcing officer may
cause the structure to be removed and demolished. (Ord. 1207, 7-6-2020)
4-3-10: SAME; MAKE SITE SAFE:
Upon removal of any structure, the owner shall fill any basement or other
excavation located upon the premises and take any other action necessary to
leave the premises in a safe condition. If the owner fails to take such action,
the enforcing officer may proceed to make the site safe. (Ord. 1207, 7-6-2020)
4-3-11: ASSESSMENT OF COSTS:
   A.   The cost to the City of any repairs, alterations, improvements,
vacating, removal or demolition by the enforcing officer, including making the
site safe, shall be reported to the City Clerk.
   B.   The City shall give notice to the owner of the structure by restricted
mail of the cost of removing the structure and making the premises safe and
secure. The notice shall also state that payment of the cost is due and payable
within thirty (30) days following receipt of the notice.
   C.   If the costs remain unpaid after thirty (30) days following receipt of
notice, the City Clerk may sell any salvage from the structure and apply the
proceeds or any necessary portion thereof to pay the cost of removing the
structure and making the site safe. Any proceeds in excess of that required to
recover the costs shall be paid to the owner of the premises upon which the
structure was located.
   D.   If the proceeds of the sale of salvage or from the proceeds of any
insurance policy in which the City has created a lien pursuant to K.S.A. 40-
3901, et seq., and amendments thereto, are insufficient to recover the above
stated costs, or if there is no salvage, the balance shall be collected in the
manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or shall be
assessed as special assessments against the lot or parcel of land on which the
structure was located and the City Clerk, at the time of certifying other City
taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs to the County Clerk and
who shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the County against such lot or
parcel of land and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer and paid to
the City as other City taxes are collected and paid. The City may pursue
collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner provided by
K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, but only until the full cost and
applicable interest has been paid in full.
   E.   If there is no salvage material, or if the moneys received from the
sale of salvage or from the proceeds of any insurance policy in which the City
has created a lien pursuant to K.S.A. 40-3901, et seq., and amendments thereto,
are insufficient to pay the costs of the work and the costs of providing
notice, such costs or any portion thereof in excess of that received from the
sale of salvage or any insurance proceeds may be financed, until the costs are
paid, out of the general fund or by the issuance of no-fund warrants. (K.S.A.
12-1755) (Ord. 1207, 7-6-2020)
4-3-12: IMMEDIATE HAZARD:
When in the opinion of the governing body any structure is in such condition as
to constitute an immediate hazard requiring immediate action to protect the
public, the governing body may direct the enforcing officer to erect barricades
or cause the property to be vacated, taken down, repaired, shored or otherwise
made safe without delay. Such action may be taken without prior notice to or
hearing of the owners, agents, lienholders and occupants. The cost of any
action under this section shall be assessed against the property as provided in
Section
4-3-11. (K.S.A. 12-1756) (Ord. 1207, 7-6-2020)
4-3-13: APPEALS FROM ORDER:
Any person affected by an order issued by the governing body under this chapter
may, within thirty (30) days following service of the order, petition the
district court of the county in which the structure is located for an
injunction restraining the enforcing officer from carrying out the provisions
of the order pending final disposition of the case. (Ord. 1207, 7-6-2020)
4-3-14: SCOPE OF CHAPTER:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers of
the courts or of any department of the city to enforce any provisions of its
charter or its ordinances or regulations, nor to prevent or punish violations
thereof; and the powers conferred by this chapter shall be in addition to and
supplemental to the powers conferred by the constitution, any other law or
ordinance. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impair or limit in any
way the power of the City to define and declare nuisances and to cause their
removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise or to exercise those
powers granted specifically by K.S.A. 12-1750:1756. (Ord. 1207, 7-6-2020)
CHAPTER 4
ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY OF RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Legislative Finding Of Fact
4-4-2: Purpose
4-4-3: Definitions
4-4-4: Public Officer
4-4-5: Enforcement Standards
4-4-6: Unlawful Acts
4-4-7: Order Of Violation
4-4-8: Penalty
4-4-9: Abatement
4-4-10: Hearing Before Governing Body
4-4-11: Appeals
4-4-12: Costs Assessed
4-4-13: Construction
4-4-1: LEGISLATIVE FINDING OF FACT:
The governing body has found that there exists within the city unsightly and
hazardous conditions due to dilapidation, deterioration or disrepair of walls,
siding, fences or structure exteriors; accumulations of refuse increasing the
hazards of accidents or other calamities, structural defects, uncleanliness;
and unsightly stored or accumulated material, equipment, supplies, machinery or
vehicle parts. Such conditions are adverse to the general welfare of the city
in that they have a blighting influence on adjoining properties, neighborhoods
and the city, or are injurious to the health and safety of the residents of the
city. The governing body desires to promote the public health, safety and
welfare by the repair, removal, abatement, and regulation of such conditions in
the manner hereafter provided. (Ord. 1148, 11-18-2013)
4-4-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect, preserve, upgrade and regulate the
environmental quality of industrial, commercial and residential neighborhoods
in the city, by making unlawful conditions which are injurious to the health,
safety, welfare or aesthetic characteristics of neighborhoods, and to provide
for the administration and enforcement thereof. (Ord. 1148, 11-18-2013)
4-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases listed below when used in this chapter shall have the
following meanings:
ABATEMENT: The removal, elimination, alleviation, or repair of any condition
described in section
4-4-9 of this chapter.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A secondary structure detached from a principal
structure but on the same premises, including, but not limited to, garages,
sheds, barns, or outbuildings.
   COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL: Premises or property used or intended to be used
primarily for other than residential purposes.
   DILAPIDATION, DETERIORATION OR DISREPAIR: Any condition characterized by,
but not limited to: holes, breaks, rot, decay, crumbling, cracking, peeling or
flaking paint, rusting, or other evidence of physical damage, neglect, lack of
maintenance, excessive use or weathering.
   EXTERIOR: Those parts of a structure which are exposed to the weather or
subject to contact with the elements: including, but not limited to: sidings,
facings, veneers, masonry, roofs, foundations, porches, screens, shutters,
windows, doors or signs.
   GARBAGE: Means, without limitation, any accumulation of animal, fruit or
vegetable waste matter that results from the handling, preparation, cooking,
serving, delivering, storage or use of foodstuffs.
   PERSON: Any individual, individuals, corporation, partnership,
unincorporated association, other business organization, committee, board,
trustee, receiver, agent or other representative who has charge, care, control
or responsibility for maintenance of any premises, regardless of status as
owner, whether or not in possession.
   PREMISES: Any lot, tract or parcel of land, whether developed or not,
including the structures thereon.
   PROPERTY: Real property on which exists a condition described in section
4-4-6 of this chapter.
   REFUSE: Garbage and trash.
   RESIDENTIAL: Premises or property used or intended to be used primarily for
human habitation.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or is attached to something having a location on the ground including
any appurtenances belonging thereto.
   TRASH: Combustible waste consisting of, but not limited to: papers, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, furniture, bedding, rags, leaves, yard
trimmings, or tree branches; and noncombustible waste consisting of, but not
limited to: metal, tin, cans, glass, crockery, plastics, mineral matter or
ashes.
   WEATHERED: Deterioration caused by exposure to the elements.
   YARD: The area of a premises not occupied by any structure. (Ord. 1148, 11-
18-2013)
4-4-4: PUBLIC OFFICER:
The city shall designate a public officer to be charged with the administration
and enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 1148, 11-18-2013)
4-4-5: ENFORCEMENT STANDARDS:
No person shall be found in violation of this chapter unless the public officer
makes a reasonable inquiry and inspection of a premises, and thereafter
believes, and prepares written findings in support thereof, that a condition
exists that is declared unlawful by section
4-4-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 1148, 11-18-2013)
4-4-6: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow to exist on any residential,
commercial or industrial premises, conditions which are injurious to the
health, safety or general welfare of the residents of the city or conditions
which are detrimental to the aesthetic characteristics of adjoining properties,
neighborhoods or the city. For the purpose of fair and efficient enforcement
and administration, such unlawful conditions shall be classified as follows:
   A.   Exterior conditions (yard) shall include, but not be limited to, the
scattering over or the leaving, depositing or accumulation on the yard of any
of the following:
      1.   Lumber, wire, metal, tires, concrete, masonry products, paper,
plastic products, supplies, equipment, machinery, auto parts, junk or refuse;
      2.   Furniture, stoves, refrigerators, televisions, sinks, bicycles, lawn
mowers, or other such items of personal property;
      3.   Nauseous substances, carcasses of dead animals or places where
animals are kept in an offensive manner; or
      4.   "Garbage" or "trash" as defined in section
4-4-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Exterior conditions (structure) shall include, but not be limited to,
dilapidated, deteriorated, or in a state of disrepair, any of the following:
      1.   Exteriors of any structure;
      2.   Exteriors of any accessory structure; or
      3.   Fences, walls or retaining walls.
Unlawful conditions described in this section shall not include, and this
section shall specifically exclude, color of paint or architectural designs or
style selected or utilized on or for a structure. (Ord. 1148, 11-18-2013)
4-4-7: ORDER OF VIOLATION:
Any person found by the public officer to be in violation of section
4-4-6 of this chapter shall be sent a written order of violation (order) issued
by the governing body or its designee. The code enforcement officer is hereby
designated by the governing body for the purposes of issuing the order required
herein. Such order shall be issued by the code enforcement officer after the
inquiry, investigation and findings required by section
4-4-5 of this chapter. The order shall be sent by first class mail. If a person
has failed to accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of an
order sent pursuant to this section during the preceding twenty four (24) month
period, the governing body may provide notice of the issuance of an order by
any reasonable manner, including, but not limited to, door hangers, conspicuous
posting of an order on the premises, personal notification, telephone
communication, or first class mail. The order shall state:
   A.   The condition which has caused the violation of this chapter; and
   B.   That the person in violation shall have:
      1.   Ten (10) days from the date of the mailing of the order to abate the
exterior conditions (yard) violation; and/or
      2.   Thirty (30) days from the date of the mailing of the order to abate
the exterior conditions (structure) violation; or in the alternative to
subsections B1 and B2 of this section;
      3.   Ten (10) days from the date of the mailing of the order, plus any
additional time granted under subsection C of this section, to request, as
provided in section
4-4-10 of this chapter, a hearing before the governing body on the matter.
   C.   Provided, however, that the governing body or its designee named herein
shall grant one or more extensions to the time periods stated in subsections B2
and B3 of this section, if the owner or agent of the property demonstrates that
due diligence is being exercised in the abatement of the conditions which have
caused the violation of this chapter; and
   D.   That failure to abate the condition or to request a hearing may result
in prosecution under section
4-4-8 of this chapter and/or abatement of the condition by the city according
to section
4-4-9 of this chapter, with the costs assessed against the property under
section
4-4-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 1148, 11-18-2013)
4-4-8: PENALTY:
The public officer may file a complaint in the municipal court against any
person found to be in violation of section
4-4-6 of this chapter, provided however, that such person shall first have been
sent an order as provided in section
4-4-7 of this chapter and that the person has neither abated the condition
causing the alleged violation nor requested a hearing before the governing body
within the time period specified in section
4-4-7 of this chapter. Any person found to be in violation of section
4-4-6 of this chapter, shall upon conviction, be guilty of a class C offense,
punishable as in subsection
1-4-1A1c of this code. Upon a first conviction, a person shall be fined one
hundred dollars ($100.00); for a second conviction within a five (5) year
period, a fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00) shall be imposed; and for a
third or subsequent conviction within a five (5) year period, a fine of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be imposed. For the purpose of this chapter, a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which such
violation is permitted to exist. (Ord. 1148, 11-18-2013)
4-4-9: ABATEMENT:
In addition to, or as an alternative to prosecution as provided in section
 4-4-8 of this chapter, the public officer may seek to remedy violations of
this chapter in the following manner. If a person to whom an order has been
sent pursuant to section
4-4-7 of this chapter has neither abated the condition causing the alleged
violation nor requested a hearing before the governing body within the time
period specified in section
4-4-7 of this chapter, the public officer may present a resolution to the
governing body for adoption authorizing the public officer or other agents of
the city to abate the condition causing the violation at the end of ten (10)
days after passage of the resolution. The resolution shall further provide that
the costs incurred by the city shall be assessed against the property as
provided in section
4-4-12 of this chapter. A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the
person in violation in one of the following ways:
   A.   Personal service;
   B.   Service by first class mail; or
   C.   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the same
cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an affidavit to
that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the city clerk,
and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the resolution
once in the official city newspaper and by posting a copy of the resolution on
the premises where such condition exists. (Ord. 1148, 11-18-2013)
4-4-10: HEARING BEFORE GOVERNING BODY:
If a hearing is requested within the ten (10) day period as provided in section
4-4-7 of this chapter, such request shall be made in writing to the governing
body. The hearing shall be held by the governing body as soon as possible after
the filing of the request therefor and the person shall be advised by the city
of the time and place of the hearing at least five (5) days in advance thereof.
At any such hearing, the person may be represented by counsel, and the person
and the city may introduce such witnesses and evidence as is deemed necessary
and proper by the governing body. The hearing need not be conducted according
to the formal rules of evidence. Upon conclusion of the hearing, the governing
body shall record its determination of the matter by means of adopting a
resolution and serving the resolution upon the person in the manner provided in
section
4-4-9 of this chapter. Failure to make a timely request for a hearing shall
constitute a waiver of the person's right to contest the findings of the public
officer before the governing body. (Ord. 1148, 11-18-2013)
4-4-11: APPEALS:
Any person affected by any determination of the governing body under section
4-4-10 of this chapter may appeal such determination in the manner provided by
Kansas Statutes Annotated 60-2101(d). (Ord. 1148, 11-18-2013)
4-4-12: COSTS ASSESSED:
If the city abates a condition pursuant to section
4-4-9 of this chapter, the cost of abatement shall be charged against the
property on which the condition was located. Costs shall include, but not be
limited to, labor, materials, equipment, service fees, contract fees,
assessments, or other charges related to the abatement. The city clerk shall,
at the time of certifying other taxes to the county clerk, certify the costs as
provided in this section. The county clerk shall extend the same on the tax
roll, the assessment shall become a lien against the property on which the
condition was located, and it shall be collected by the county treasurer and
paid to the city as other taxes are collected and paid. In addition to remedies
available to the city to collect assessments levied against property, if any
assessments for costs of abatement levied by the city in accordance with this
section remain unpaid by the owner of a lot or parcel of ground, the city may
collect the amount due in the same manner as a personal debt of the property
owner to the city, by bringing an action in the appropriate district court.
(Ord. 1148, 11-18-2013)
4-4-13: CONSTRUCTION:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers of
the courts or of any department of the city to enforce any provisions of its
laws nor to prevent or punish violations thereof. The powers conferred by this
chapter shall be in addition to and supplemental to the powers conferred by the
Kansas constitution, or by any other law or ordinance. (Ord. 1148, 11-18-2013)
CHAPTER 5
HEALTH NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-5-1: Food And Food Establishments
4-5-2: Garbage And Refuse
4-5-3: Abatement Procedures
4-5-4: Failure To Abate; Penalty
4-5-1: FOOD AND FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS:
Any of the following conditions existing where food is stored for resale or
offered for sale shall constitute health nuisances:
   A.   Unsanitary Conditions: Storing for resale or offering for sale food in
a place where unsanitary conditions exist or where rats, mice, flies or other
vermin are present;
   B.   Utensils, Containers Unsanitary: Using utensils or containers in
storing or handling food intended or offered for sale which are not kept in a
sanitary condition;
   C.   Unclean Persons: Allowing any person to handle food intended or offered
for resale who is unclean, has unclean clothing or who has a communicable
disease; or
   D.   Unfit Food: Possessing food intended or offered for resale which is
unwholesome, decayed, rotten, decomposed, diseased or otherwise unfit for human
consumption. (1983 Code § 5-201)
4-5-2: GARBAGE AND REFUSE:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this Section, the following terms are
defined as follows:
   GARBAGE: Shall be interpreted to mean all putrescible wastes, except sewage
and body wastes, but including vegetable and animal offal and carcasses of dead
animals, and shall include food waste from homes, kitchens, apartments, hotels,
restaurants, stores, markets and similar establishments.
   REFUSE: Shall be interpreted to mean and include ashes, cinders, waste
paper, cardboard, cloth materials, tin cans, crockery, limbs, trees, grass,
leaves, stones, bricks or scrap metal and other materials easily handled or a
combination of any two (2) or more of the foregoing types of materials. (1983
Code § 5-203)
   B.   Conditions Constituting Nuisance: Any of the following conditions shall
constitute health nuisances:
      1.   Collecting or accumulating any garbage on private premises in this
City unless the same is placed in containers which have tight-fitting lids, or
collecting or accumulating fermenting, putrefying or odoriferous garbage placed
in any containers and permitted to remain therein to the annoyance of any
person or neighborhood.
      2.   Collecting or accumulating on private premises, any refuse which
creates an unsanitary condition or which is or may be a harbor for rats, mice
and other vermin, or which shall constitute a condition of filth that may be or
become a menace to the public health or an annoyance to any person or
neighborhood. (1983 Code § 5-202)
4-5-3: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Notice To Owner: Whenever the Public Service Officer finds the
existence of a "health nuisance", as defined by Sections
 4-5-2 and
4-5-3 of this Chapter, the Public Service Officer shall have the City Clerk
forthwith issue notice requiring the owner or agent of the owner of the
premises to remove and abate said premises, the thing or things therein
described as a nuisance within a time, not exceeding ten (10) days, to be
specified in the notice. (1983 Code § 5-204; amd. 1998 Code)
   B.   Service Of Notice: The notice shall be served by personal service, by
delivering a copy thereof to the owner, occupant or agent of such property, or
if the same be unoccupied and the owner a nonresident, then by mailing a notice
to his or her last known address.
   C.   Failure To Comply: If the owner, occupant or agent shall fail to comply
with the requirements of said notice for a period longer than that named in the
notice, then the City shall proceed to have the things described in said notice
removed and abated from said lot or parcel of ground, and the cost of such
removal or abatement shall be assessed against the lot or parcel of ground on
which the nuisance was located; and the City Clerk shall, at the time of
certifying the taxes to the County Clerk, certify the aforesaid cost, and the
County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax roll of the County against said
lot or parcel of ground, and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer and
paid to the City as other City taxes are collected and paid. (1983 Code § 5-
204)
4-5-4: FAILURE TO ABATE; PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day such failure to comply continues shall constitute
a separate offense. (1983 Code § 5-205; amd. 1998 Code)
CHAPTER 6
WEEDS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Removal Required
4-6-3: Public Officer; Notice To Remove
4-6-4: Abatement; Assessment Of Costs
4-6-5: Right Of Entry
4-6-6: Interference Unlawful
4-6-7: Noxious Weeds
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
   CALENDAR YEAR: That period of time beginning January 1 and ending December
31 of the same year.
   WEEDS: Any of the following:
   A.   Brush and woody vines shall be classified as weeds.
   B.   Weeds and indigenous grasses which may attain such large growth as to
become, when dry, a fire menace to adjacent improved property.
   C.   Weeds which bear or may bear seeds of a downy or wingy nature.
   D.   Weeds which are located in an area which harbors rats, insects,
animals, reptiles or any other creature which may or does constitute a menace
to health, public safety or welfare.
   E.   Weeds and indigenous grasses on or about residential property which
because of its height has a blighting influence on the neighborhood. Any such
weeds and indigenous grasses shall be presumed to be blighting if they exceed
twelve inches (12") in height. (Ord. 995, 8-4-1997)
4-6-2: REMOVAL REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent, lessee, tenant or other person
occupying or having charge or control of any premises to permit weeds to remain
upon said premises or any area between the property lines of said premises and
the curb line of any adjacent street or the center line of any adjacent alley,
including, but not specifically limited to, sidewalks, alleys, easements,
rights of way and all other areas, public or private. All "weeds", as defined
in Section
4-6-1 of this Chapter, are hereby declared a nuisance and are subject to
abatement as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 995, 8-4-1997)
4-6-3: PUBLIC OFFICER; NOTICE TO REMOVE:
   A.   Content Of Notice: The Chief of Police shall designate a public officer
to be charged with the administration and enforcement of this Chapter. The
public officer or an authorized assistant shall notify in writing the owner,
occupant or agent in charge of any premises in the City upon which weeds exist
in violation of this Chapter, by mail or by personal service, once per calendar
year. Such notice shall include the following:
      1.   Violation Of Law: The owner, occupant or agent in charge of the
property is in violation of the City weed control law.
      2.   Order To Cut: The owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property
is ordered to cut the weeds within ten (10) days of the receipt of notice.
      3.   Request For Hearing: The owner, occupant or agent in charge of the
property may request a hearing before the City Council or its designated
representative within five (5) days of the receipt of notice.
      4.   Authority Of City To Cut; Assessment Of Costs: If the owner,
occupant or agent in charge of the property does not cut the weeds, the City or
its authorized agent will cut the weeds and assess the cost of the cutting,
including a reasonable administrative fee, against the owner, occupant or agent
of the property.
      5.   Assessment Added To Property Tax: The owner, occupant or agent in
charge of the property will be given an opportunity to pay the assessment, and,
if it is not paid, it will be added to the property tax as a special
assessment.
      6.   No Further Notice Given: No further notice shall be given prior to
removal of weeds during the current calendar year.
      7.   Contact Public Officer For Questions: The public officer should be
contacted if there are any questions regarding the order.
   B.   Change In Record Owner: If there is a change in the record owner of
title to property subsequent to the giving of notice pursuant to this Section,
the City may not recover any costs or levy an assessment for the costs incurred
by the cutting or destruction of weeds on such property unless the new record
owner of title to such property is provided notice as required by this Section.
(Ord. 995, 8-4-1997)
4-6-4: ABATEMENT; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS:
   A.   Authorized: Upon the expiration of ten (10) days after receipt of the
notice required by Section
4-6-3 of this Chapter, and in the event that the owner, occupant or agent in
charge of the premises shall neglect or fail to comply with the requirements of
Section
4-6-2 of this Chapter, the public officer or an authorized assistant shall
cause to be cut, destroyed and/or removed all such weeds and abate the nuisance
created thereby at any time during the current calendar year. (Ord. 995, 8-4-
1997)
   B.   Notice: The public officer or an authorized assistant shall give notice
to the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the premises by registered mail of
the costs of abatement of the nuisance. The notice shall state that payment of
the costs due are payable within thirty (30) days following receipt of the
notice. (Ord. 995, 8-4-1997; amd. 1998 Code)
   C.   Failure To Pay: If the costs of removal or abatement remain unpaid
after thirty (30) days following receipt of notice, a record of the costs of
cutting and destruction and/or removal shall be certified to the City Clerk,
who shall cause such costs to be assessed against the particular lot or piece
of land on which such weeds were so removed, and against such lots or pieces of
land in front of or abutting on such street or alley on which such weeds were
so removed. The City Clerk shall certify the assessment to the County Clerk at
the time other special assessments are certified for spreading on the tax rolls
of the County. (Ord. 995, 8-4-1997)
4-6-5: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The public officer and the public officer's authorized assistants, employees,
contracting agents or other representatives are hereby expressly authorized to
enter upon private property at all reasonable hours for the purpose of cutting,
destroying and/or removing such weeds in a manner not inconsistent with this
Chapter. (Ord. 995, 8-4-1997)
4-6-6: INTERFERENCE UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or to attempt to prevent
the public officer or the public officer's authorized representative from
entering upon any such lot or piece of ground or from proceeding with such
cutting and destruction. Such interference shall constitute an ordinance
violation. (Ord. 995, 8-4-1997)
4-6-7: NOXIOUS WEEDS:
Nothing in this Chapter shall affect or impair the rights of the City under the
provisions of Kansas Statutes Annotated chapter 2, article 13, relating to the
control and eradication of certain noxious weeds. For the purpose of this
Section, the term noxious weeds shall mean:
kudzu (Pueraria lobata)
field bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis)
Russian knapweed (Centaurea picris)
hoary cress (Lepidium draba)
Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense)
quackgrass (Agropyron repens)
leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula)
burragweed (Franscria tomentosa and discolor)
pignut (Hoffmannseggia densiflora)
musk (nodding) thistle (Carduus nutans L.)
Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense)
(Ord. 995, 8-4-1997)
CHAPTER 7
SOLID WASTE
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: Containers For Storage Required
4-7-3: Collection And Disposal Of Solid Waste
4-7-4: Transportation Of Solid Waste
4-7-5: Burning Prohibited
4-7-6: Penalty
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following terms shall be deemed to have
the meaning indicated below:
APPROVED INCINERATOR: An incinerator which complies with all current
regulations of the Division of Air Quality, State of Kansas, Department of
Health and Environment.
   BULKY SOLID WASTE: Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of combustible
and/or noncombustible waste materials from dwelling units, commercial,
industrial, institutional or agricultural establishments which are either too
large or too heavy to be loaded in solid waste collection vehicles with safety
and convenience by solid waste collectors, with the equipment available
therefor.
   CITY: The City of Scott City, Kansas.
   COLLECTION: Removal and transportation of solid waste from its place of
storage to its place of processing or disposal.
   DEMOLITION AND CONSTRUCTION WASTE: Waste materials from the construction or
destruction of residential, industrial or commercial structures.
   DWELLING UNIT: Any room or group of rooms located within a structure and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used, or are intended
to be used, for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   GARBAGE: Putrescible animal or vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, serving or consumption of food.
   HAZARDOUS WASTES: Including, but not limited to, pathological wastes,
explosive wastes, pesticides, pesticide containers, toxic or radioactive
materials.
   OCCUPANT: Any person who, alone or jointly, or severally with others, shall
be in actual possession of any dwelling unit or of any other improved real
property, either as owner or as a tenant.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, political
subdivision or organization of any kind, or their legal representatives, agents
or assigns.
   SOLID WASTE: Unwanted or discarded waste materials in a solid or semi-solid
state, including, but not limited to, garbage, ashes, street refuse, rubbish,
dead animals, animal and agricultural wastes, yard wastes, discarded
appliances, special wastes, industrial wastes and demolition and construction
wastes.
   SOLID WASTE, COMMERCIAL: Solid waste resulting from the operation of any
commercial, industrial, institutional or agricultural establishment.
   SOLID WASTE CONTAINER: Receptacle used by any person to store solid waste
during the interval between solid waste collections.
   SOLID WASTE, RESIDENTIAL: Solid waste resulting from the maintenance and
operation of dwelling units. (1983 Code § 5-407)
4-7-2: CONTAINERS FOR STORAGE REQUIRED:
The occupant of every dwelling unit and every institutional, commercial or
business, industrial or agricultural establishment producing solid waste within
the corporate limits of the City, shall provide sufficient and adequate
containers for the storage of all solid waste, except bulky solid waste and
demolition and construction waste, to serve each such dwelling unit and/or
establishment; and to maintain such solid waste containers at all times in good
repair; and shall maintain the area surrounding them in a clean, neat and
sanitary condition at all times. These containers must have been originally
manufactured for the purpose of storing solid waste, and must include a lid.
Exceptions to this will require special permission from the City. (1983 Code §
5-401)
4-7-3: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE:
The occupant of every dwelling unit and every institutional, commercial or
business, industrial or agricultural establishment producing solid waste within
the corporate limits of the City shall provide for the collection and disposal
of all solid waste, except bulky solid waste and demolition and construction
waste, at regular intervals at least once each week. Bulky solid waste and
demolition and construction waste shall be collected and disposed of so that
such waste does not accumulate and become unsightly or become detrimental to
the health and safety of the citizens of the City. (1983 Code § 5-402)
4-7-4: TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE:
All solid waste transported over and upon the public streets and alleys of the
City shall be transported in tight vehicles, trucks or receptacles, or secured
so that none of the material being transported shall spill upon the streets and
alleys. (1983 Code § 5-403)
4-7-5: BURNING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn solid waste within the corporate
limits of the City unless an approved incinerator is provided or unless a
variance has been obtained from the appropriate air pollution control agency.
(1983 Code § 5-404)
4-7-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code; provided, that each day's violation thereof shall be a
separate offense for the purposes hereof. (1983 Code § 5-405; amd. 1998 Code)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
Police Department   1
Uniform Public Offense Code   2
Curfew   3
Animal Control   4
General Provisions   4A
Dogs And Cats   4B
General Offenses   5
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Function; Organization
5-1-2: Compliance With State Law
5-1-3: Chief Of Police; Duties
5-1-4: Police Officers; Duties Generally
5-1-5: Arrests For State Offenses
5-1-6: Docket Maintained
5-1-1: FUNCTION; ORGANIZATION:
The function of the Police Department shall be the protection of the lives and
property of the citizens of the City and the enforcement of the laws of the
State and the ordinances of the City. The Police Department shall be under the
immediate direction and supervision of the Chief of Police and shall consist of
such other officers and members as may be authorized by the City Council and
appointed by the City Council upon recommendation of the Police Chief. (1983
Code § 8-101)
5-1-2: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
The Chief of Police and police officers shall at all times have all powers,
duties and responsibilities as are contained in Kansas Statutes Annotated
articles 41 through 46 of chapter 12, and any amendments thereto. (1983 Code §
8-104)
5-1-3: CHIEF OF POLICE; DUTIES:
The duties of the Chief of Police shall be as follows:
   A.   State Required Duties: Perform all duties required by the laws of the
State to be performed by him.
   B.   Head Of Department: Act as head of the Police Department.
   C.   Recommend Officers For Employment: Recommend for employment such
additional police officers as authorized by the City Council and approved by
the City Council. (1983 Code § 8-102)
   D.   Other Required Duties: Perform all other duties required of him by the
City Council and of this Code. (1983 Code § 8-102; amd. 1998 Code)
5-1-4: POLICE OFFICERS; DUTIES GENERALLY:
Police officers, while on duty, shall devote their time and attention to their
respective duties according to the laws of the State, the ordinances of the
City and the orders of the Chief of Police. It shall be their general duty at
all times to the best of their ability, to preserve good order, peace, quiet
and to enforce the laws of the State and the ordinances of the City. (1983 Code
§ 8-103)
5-1-5: ARRESTS FOR STATE OFFENSES:
When any person is arrested by a City police officer and charged with any
offense which is a violation of the laws of the State, it shall be the duty of
such police officer to inform the County Sheriff or County Attorney, and upon
the request of such County officer, release such person to the custody of such
County officer, making a memorandum of the same on the police docket. It shall
be the duty of all police officers of the City to cooperate with officers of
the State in the prosecution of all such offenses, and it shall be their
further duty to give their evidence before any court or officer of the State,
as required by law. (1983 Code § 8-105)
5-1-6: DOCKET MAINTAINED:
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to maintain, at the police station,
a proper police docket and cause to be entered thereon:
   A.   The name of every person arrested;
   B.   Date and time of his arrest;
   C.   Offense or offenses such person is charged;
   D.   Whether confined in jail or released under recognizance, and the amount
of bail, bond or cash bail, and a copy of the receipt for a cash bond will be
forwarded to the City Clerk immediately;
   E.   Decision of the court; and
   F.   If a jail sentence is imposed, the date of commitment to jail and the
date of the termination of such jail sentence. Further, said information of
jail time shall be forwarded to the City Clerk. (1983 Code § 8-106)
CHAPTER 2
UNIFORM PUBLIC OFFENSE CODE
SECTION:
5-2-1: Uniform Public Offense Code
5-2-1: UNIFORM PUBLIC OFFENSE CODE:
   A.   Incorporating Uniform Public Offense Code: There is hereby incorporated
by reference for the purpose of regulating public offenses within the corporate
limits of the City of Scott City, Kansas, that certain code known as the
Uniform Public Offense Code for Kansas Cities, 40th Edition, prepared and
published in book form by the League of Kansas Municipalities, Topeka, Kansas,
hereinafter referred to as the "Uniform Public Offense Code", save and except
such articles, sections, parts, or portions as are hereafter omitted, deleted,
modified, added, or amended. One official copy of said Uniform Public Offense
Code shall be marked or stamped "Official Copy as Adopted by Ordinance No. 1269
with all sections or portions thereof intended to be omitted, deleted,
modified, added or amended clearly marked to show any such omission, deletion,
modification, addition, or amendment and to which shall be attached a copy of
this ordinance and filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and
available to the public at all reasonable hours. The police department,
municipal judge, city attorney, city prosecutor, and all administrative
departments of the city charged with enforcement of the ordinance shall be
supplied, at the cost of the City, such number of official copies of such
Uniform Public Offense Code, similarly marked, as may be deemed expedient. All
references to the Uniform Public Offense Code as adopted and incorporated into
this Code shall be in a form designating Section 5-2-1 followed in parenthesis
by the section number of the Uniform Public Offense Code, as incorporated, e.g.
Section 10.5 of the Uniform Public Offense Code as adopted and incorporated
shall be referenced as Section 5-2-1(10.5).
   B.   Amendment: Section 1.1 of the Uniform Public Offense Code, also
referred to as 5-2-1(1.1) of the Code is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Section 1.1 Definitions.
      (a)   As used in the Uniform Public Offense Code, as incorporated, and as
used in other public offense ordinances of the City, the words and phrases
defined in Section 1.1 of Article 1 of the Uniform Public Offense Code shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them therein and any such
definitions are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein,
except as expressly provided in subsection (b) or except when the context
otherwise requires.
      (b)   Notwithstanding the definitions of Section 1.1 of Article 1 of the
Uniform Public Offense Code as incorporated by subsection (a), the following
words and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them as set forth below:
      (1)   Controlled Substance. Any drug, substance or immediate precursor
included in any of the schedules designated in K.S.A. 65-4105, 65-4107, 65-
4109, 65-4111 and 65-4113, and amendments thereto.
      (2)   Controlled Substance Analog.
         (A)   A substance that is intended for human consumption, and at least
one of the following:
         i.   The chemical structure of the substance is substantially similar
to the chemical structure of a controlled substance listed in or added to the
schedules designated in K.S.A. 65-4105 or 65-4107, and amendments thereto;
         ii.   The substance has a stimulant, depressant or hallucinogenic
effect on the central nervous system substantially similar to the stimulant,
depressant or hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system of a
controlled substance included in the schedules designated in K.S.A. 65-4105 or
65-4107, and amendments thereto; or
         iii.   With respect to a particular individual, such individual
represents or intends the substance to have a stimulant, depressant or
hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system substantially similar to
the stimulant, depressant or hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous
system of a controlled substance included in the schedules designated in K.S.A.
65-4105 or 65-4107, and amendments thereto.
         (B)   “Controlled substance analog” does not include:
            1.   A controlled substance;
            2.   A substance for which there is an approved new drug
application; or
            3.   A substance with respect to which an exemption is in effect
for investigational use by a particular person under Section 505 of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. § 355, to the extent conduct with
respect to the substance is permitted by the exemption.
      (3)   Distribute. The actual or constructive transfer from one person to
another of some item whether or not there is an agency relationship. Distribute
includes, but is not limited to, sale, offer for sale, furnishing, buying for,
delivering, giving, or any act that causes or is intended to cause some item to
be transferred from one person to another. Distribute does not include acts of
administering, dispensing or prescribing a controlled substance as authorized
by the Kansas Pharmacy Act, the Uniform Controlled Substances Act, or otherwise
authorized by law or ordinance.
   C.   Amendment. Section 7.15 of the Uniform Public Offense Code, also
referred to as 5-2-1(7.15) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Section 7.15. Intimidation of a Witness or Victim.
      (a)   Intimidation of a witness or victim is preventing or dissuading, or
attempting to prevent or dissuade, with an intent to vex, annoy, harm or injure
in any way another person or an intent to thwart or interfere in any manner
with the orderly administration of justice:
      (1)   Any witness or victim from attending or giving testimony at any
civil or criminal trial, proceeding or inquiry authorized by law; or
      (2)   Any witness, victim or person acting on behalf of a victim from:
         (A)   Making any report of the victimization of a victim to any law
enforcement officer, prosecutor, probation officer, parole officer,
correctional officer, community correctional services officer, judicial
officer, the secretary for children and families, the secretary for aging and
disability services, or any agent or representative of either secretary, or any
person required to make a report pursuant to K.S.A. 38-2223, and amendments
thereto;
         (B)   Causing a complaint, indictment or information to be sought and
prosecuted or causing a violation of probation, parole or assignment to a
community correctional services program to be reported and prosecuted, and
assisting in its prosecution;
         (C)   Causing a civil action to be filed and prosecuted and assisting
in its prosecution; or
         (D)   Arresting or causing or seeking the arrest of any person in
connection with the victimization of a victim.
      (b)   Intimidation of a witness or victim is a Class B person violation.
      (c)   As used in this section:
      (1)   Civil injury or loss means any injury or loss for which a civil
remedy is provided under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United
States.
      (2)   Victim means any individual:
         (A)   Against whom any crime under the laws of this state, any other
state or the United States or any ordinance violation under the code of any
city is being, has been or is attempted to be committed; or
         (B)   Who suffers a civil injury or loss; and
      (3)   Witness means any individual:
         (A)   Who has knowledge of the existence or nonexistence of facts
relating to any civil or criminal trial, proceeding or inquiry authorized by
law;
         (B)   Whose declaration under oath is received or has been received as
evidence for any purpose;
         (C)   Who has reported any crime or any civil injury or loss to any
law enforcement officer, prosecutor, probation officer, parole officer,
correctional officer, community correctional services officer or judicial
officer;
         (D)   Who has been served with a subpoena issued under the authority
of a municipal court or any court or agency of this state, any other state or
the United States; or
         (E)   Who is believed by the offender to be an individual described in
this subsection.
   D.   Amendment: Section 9.9.3 of the Uniform Public Offense Code, also
referred to as 5-2-1(9.9.3) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Section 9.9.3. Unlawful Distribution of Controlled Substances.
      (a)   No person shall distribute or possess with the intent to distribute
a controlled substance or a controlled substance analog designated in K.S.A.
65-4113, and amendments thereto, to any person who is eighteen (18) years of
age or older.
      (b)   Violation of subsection (a) is a Class A violation.
   E.   Amendment: Section 9.9.4 of the Uniform Public Offense Code, also
referred to as 5-2-1(9.9.4) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Section 9.9.4. Unlawful Possession of Controlled Substances.  
      (a)   No person shall possess any of the controlled substances or
controlled substance analogs thereof found in subsection (b) of K.S.A. 21-5706,
and amendments thereto, except as provided in subsection (b) of this section.
      (b)    This section shall not apply if the substance involved is
marijuana, as designated in K.S.A. 65-4105(d), and amendments thereto, or
tetrahydrocannabinols, as designated in K.S.A. 65-4105(h), and amendments
thereto.
      (c)   Violation of subsection (a) is a Class A violation.
      (d)   A law enforcement officer shall not take a person into custody
based solely on the commission of an offense described in subsection (a) if the
law enforcement officer, after making a reasonable determination and
considering the facts and surrounding circumstances, reasonably believes that
the person:
      (1) (A)   Initiated contact with a law enforcement officer, law
enforcement agency, or emergency medical services and requested medical
assistance on the person's own behalf because the person reasonably believed
they needed medical assistance as a result of the use of a controlled
substance; and
      (B)   Cooperated with law enforcement officers and emergency medical
services personnel in providing such medical assistance;
      (2)(A)   Was a person who rendered aid to another person who reasonably
appeared to need medical assistance as a result of the use of a controlled
substance or initiated contact with a law enforcement officer, law enforcement
agency or emergency medical services and requested medical assistance for
another person who reasonably appeared to need medical assistance as a result
of the use of a controlled substance;
      (B)   Provided such person's full name and any other relevant information
that is necessary to provide the medical assistance described in subsection (d)
(2)(A) as requested by law enforcement or emergency medical services;
      (C)   Remained at the scene with the person who reasonably appeared to
need medical assistance until emergency medical services personnel and law
enforcement officers arrived; and
      (D)   Cooperated with emergency medical services personnel and law
enforcement officers in providing such medical assistance; or
      (3) (A)   Was the person who reasonably appeared to need medical
assistance as a result of the use of a controlled substance as described in
subsection (d)(2)(A); and
         (B)   Cooperated with emergency medical services personnel and law
enforcement officers in providing such medical assistance.
      (e)(1)   Except as provided in subparagraph (e)(2), each person who meets
the criteria in subsection (d) is immune from criminal prosecution for a
violation of subsection (a).
      (2)   No person is immune from criminal prosecution as provided in
subsection (e)(1) if the quantity of controlled substances found at the scene
of the encounter with law enforcement would be sufficient to create a
rebuttable presumption of an intent to distribute as described in subsection
(e) of K.S.A. 21-5705, and amendments thereto.
      (f)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a person seeking
medical assistance during the course of the execution of an arrest warrant or
search warrant or a lawful search.
      (g)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude a person who
is immune from criminal prosecution pursuant to this section from being
prosecuted based on evidence obtained from an independent source.
      (h)   A person shall not be allowed to initiate or maintain an action
against a law enforcement officer, or the officer's employer based on the
officer's compliance or failure to comply with this section. Except in cases of
reckless or intentional misconduct, an officer shall be immune from liability
for arresting a person who is later determined to be immune from prosecution
pursuant to this section.
   F.   Amendment: Section 9.9.6 of the Uniform Public Offense Code, also
referred to as 5-2-1(9.9.6) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Section 9.9.6. Distribution of Non-Controlled Substance.
      (a)   No person shall distribute or possess with the intent to distribute
any substance, which is not a controlled substance, to any person who is
eighteen (18) years of age or older:
      (1)   Upon an express representation that the substance is a controlled
substance or that the substance is of such nature or appearance that the
recipient will be able to distribute the substance as a controlled substance;
or
      (2)    Under circumstances which would give a reasonable person reason to
believe that the substance is a controlled substance.
      (b)   Violation of subsection (a) is a Class A nonperson violation.
      (c)   If any one of the following factors is established, there shall be
a presumption that distribution of a substance was under circumstances which
would give a reasonable person reason to believe that a substance is a
controlled substance:
      (1)   The substance was packaged in a manner normally used for the
illegal distribution of controlled substances;
      (2)   The distribution of the substance included an exchange of or demand
for money or other consideration for distribution of the substance and the
amount of the consideration was substantially in excess of the reasonable value
of the substance; or
      (3)    The physical appearance of the capsule or other material
containing the substance is substantially identical to a specific controlled
substance.
   G.   Amendment: Section 10.1 of the Uniform Public Offense Code, also
referred to as 5-2-1(10.1) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Section 10.1. Criminal Use of Weapons.
      (a)   Criminal use of weapons is knowingly:
      (1)   Selling, manufacturing, purchasing or possessing any bludgeon, sand
club, or metal knuckles;
      (2)   Possessing with intent to use the same unlawfully against another,
a slungshot, throwing star, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or
instrument of like character; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be
construed as to prohibit the possession, carrying, or use of a cutting
instrument pursuant to K.S.A. 12-16,143; or
      (3)   Setting a spring gun.
      (b)   Criminal use of weapons is a Class A violation.
      (c)   Subsections (a)(1) and (a)(2) shall not apply to:
      (1)   Law enforcement officers, or any person summoned by any such
officers to assist in making arrests or preserving the peace while actually
engaged in assisting such officer;
      (2)   Wardens, superintendents, directors, security personnel and keepers
of prisons, penitentiaries, jails and other institutions for the detention of
persons accused or convicted of crime, while acting within the scope of their
authority;
      (3)   Members of the armed services or reserve forces of the United
States or the Kansas national guard while in the performance of their official
duty; or
      (4)   The manufacture of, transportation to, or sale of weapons to a
person authorized under subsections (c)(1), (c)(2) and (c)(3) to possess such
weapons.
   H.   Amendment: Section 10.5 of the Uniform Public Offense Code, also
referred to as 5-2-1(10.5) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Section 10.5. Unlawful Discharge of a Firearm.
      (a)   Unlawful discharge of a firearm is the discharge of a firearm
within or into the corporate limits of any city.
      (b)   This section shall not apply to the discharge of any firearm within
or into the corporate limits of any city if:
      (1)   The firearm is discharged in the lawful defense of one's person,
another person or one's property;
      (2)   The firearm is discharged at a private or public shooting range;
      (3)   The firearm is discharged by authorized law enforcement or animal
control officers;
      (4)   The firearm is discharged by special permit of the chief of police
or by the sheriff when the city has no police department;
      (5)   The firearm is discharged using blanks; or
      (6)   The firearm is discharged in lawful self-defense or defense of
another person against an animal attack.
      (c)   A violation of this section shall be a Class B violation.
       (Ord. 1192, 8-20-2018; amd. Ord. 1202, 7-15-2019; Ord. 1218, 8-16-2021;
Ord. 1242, 8-15-2022; Ord. 1269, 9-16-2024)
CHAPTER 3
CURFEW
SECTION:
5-3-1: Established
5-3-2: Exceptions
5-3-3: Parent Responsibility
5-3-4: Penalty
5-3-1: ESTABLISHED:
It shall be unlawful for any child under the age of eighteen (18) years to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways,
roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public places or
public buildings, places of amusement or entertainment, eating places, vacant
lots or any other place normally accessible to the general public for public
use, whether on foot or in a motor vehicle or by any other means, during the
following periods of time:
   A.   Fifteen And Under: For children age fifteen (15) and under, between the
hours of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. on any day and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
of the following day.
   B.   Sixteen And Seventeen: For children age sixteen (16) and seventeen
(17), between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on any day and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following day. (Ord. 996, 8-4-1997)
5-3-2: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of Section
5-3-1 of this Chapter shall not apply in the following instances:
   A.   Accompanied By Parent: When a child is accompanied by a parent,
guardian or other adult person having the lawful care and custody of the child;
   B.   Emergency Errand: When a child is upon an emergency errand directed by
a parent or guardian or other adult person having the lawful care and custody
of the child;
   C.   Activity, Entertainment Or Recreation: When a child is returning
directly home by the most direct and efficient route from a school activity,
entertainment, recreational activity or dance;
   D.   Lawful Employment: When a child is returning directly home by the most
direct and efficient route from lawful employment that makes it necessary to be
in the above referenced places during the prescribed period of time;
   E.   Sidewalk Abutting Residence: When a child is on the sidewalk abutting a
child's residence or abutting the residence of a next-door neighbor if the
neighbor did not complain to the police officer about a child's presence;
   F.   Rightful Activities: When a child is attending or traveling directly to
or from an activity involving the exercise of first amendment rights of free
speech, freedom of assembly or free exercise of religion; and
   G.   Interstate Travel: When a child is in interstate travel through the
City. (Ord. 996, 8-4-1997)
5-3-3: PARENT RESPONSIBILITY:
Except in circumstances set out in Section
 5-3-2 of this Chapter, it shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other
adult person having the care and custody of a child under the age of eighteen
(18) years to permit, whether knowingly or through ineffective control or
supervision, such child to loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon the
public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public
grounds, public places or public buildings, places of amusement or
entertainment, eating places, vacant lots or any other place normally
accessible to the general public for public use, whether on foot or in a motor
vehicle or by any other means, during the following periods of time:
   A.   Fifteen And Under: For children age fifteen (15) and under, between the
hours of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. on any day and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
of the following day.
   B.   Sixteen And Seventeen: For children age sixteen (16) and seventeen
(17), between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on any day and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following day. (Ord. 996, 8-4-1997)
5-3-4: PENALTY:
   A.   Minor: Any child violating the provisions of this Chapter shall be
guilty of a Class C violation and subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Any police officer finding a child under the age of
eighteen (18) years violating the provisions of this Chapter shall warn the
child to desist from such violation and to immediately return home and shall
cause a written notice to be served upon the parent, guardian or person in
charge of the child, setting forth the manner in which the provisions of this
Chapter have been violated. For the purposes of this Section, notice shall be
deemed properly served upon the parent, guardian or person in charge of the
child if a copy thereof is served personally or if a copy thereof is sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to such person's last known address.
   B.   Parent, Guardian: Any parent, guardian or person having the care and
custody of a child who shall permit, whether knowingly or through ineffective
control or supervision, a child to violate the provisions of this Chapter after
receiving written notice that such child has previously violated this Chapter,
shall be guilty of a Class C violation and subject to penalty as provided in
Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 996, 8-4-1997; amd. 1998 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-4A-1: Livestock, Poultry And Swine
5-4A-2: Dangerous Animals
5-4A-3: Animals At Large; Impoundment, Fee
5-4A-4: Strays
5-4A-5: Abandonment
5-4A-6: Honeybees
5-4A-7: Penalty
5-4A-1: LIVESTOCK, POULTRY AND SWINE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to rear or keep any livestock
including, but not limited to, cattle, sheep, goats, and equine in the city.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to rear or keep any fowl including
turkeys, geese, guinea or other domestic fowl in the city, except as permitted
in Section E.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to rear or keep any swine in the
city except for miniature Vietnamese potbelly pigs or similar miniature pigs
which may be kept under the following conditions:
      1.   It weighs less than eighty (80) pounds;
      2.   It is spayed or neutered;
      3.   It is tested free of pseudorabies;
      4.   It is not for a food source; and
      5.   No household shall have more than one.
   D.   This section shall not apply to veterinary, or animal hospitals
operated by a doctor of veterinary medicine licensed in the state of Kansas or
to any packing plant or slaughterhouse lawfully operated within the city.
   E.   Permitted Fowl.
      1.   The following terms shall be defined as follows for the purposes of
this section:
         a.   Fowl shall mean those birds commonly kept producing meat, eggs or
feathers, which shall include, but not be limited to, chickens, ducks, turkeys,
geese, swans, peafowl, guinea fowl, ostriches, and emus.
         b.   Permitted fowl shall mean ducks and female chickens.
         c.   Similar structure shall mean any structure that is used for the
housing, raising, feeding, or sheltering of permitted fowl.
         d.   Waste shall mean animal droppings and soiled/unconsumed feed. It
shall be unlawful for any person to suffer or permit any fowl owned by or in
charge or control of such person to run or be at large within the limits of the
city upon the public streets, ways, or grounds of the city or upon the premises
of other persons.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any permitted fowl in
any coop, fenced area, or similar structure located within seventy-five feet
(75') of the dwelling of any person other than the keeper of such fowl. This
subsection shall apply regardless of whether the coop, fenced area, or similar
structure is permanent or temporary.
      3.   The keeping of any permitted fowl shall be subject to any nuisance
law or nuisance ordinance of the City of Scott City.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or maintain a
total number of permitted fowl on any individual lot that is in excess of one
(1) permitted fowl per five hundred (500) square feet of lot size, rounded
down, or that is in excess of twelve (12) permitted fowl on any individual lot,
regardless of lot size.
      5.   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of any feathers,
organs, bones, or waste produced by fowl inside dumpsters without being bagged.
      6.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or maintain any
permitted fowl in violation of any of the following keeping requirements:
         a.   Permitted fowl shall be kept within a fenced area and provided
with appropriate shelter.
         b.   No permitted fowl shall be kept in the front yard.
         c.   Permitted fowl shall be kept at least ten feet (10') away from
the primary structure.
         d.   A coop or similar structure shall be provided for any permitted
fowl. Any such coop or similar structure shall be a minimum of three (3) square
feet in size per permitted fowl if the fowl has a fenced outdoor run or a
minimum of ten (10) square feet per permitted fowl if the fowl do not have a
fenced outdoor run. Any such coop or similar structure, including any outdoor
run, shall be screened or walled in a manner that allows the permitted fowl to
be reasonably protected from predators and weather elements.
         e.   Laying boxes shall be provided for the permitted fowl. Any such
laying boxes shall be a minimum of one (1) square foot of laying box space per
three (3) chickens. Each laying box shall contain bedding material such as hay
or any other soft material.
         f.   A roost shall be required for each chicken. Any roost shall be at
least eight inches (8") long per chicken.
         g.   A roost shall not be required for ducks.
         h.   Any coop, similar structure, and outdoor run, including any
laying box, roost, bedding material, and any other object located therein,
shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition to prevent the presence of
vermin and to prevent the unreasonable accumulation of any waste, noxious
substances, and noxious odors.
         i.   Any feed for the permitted fowl shall be kept in a clean, dry,
and closed container.
         j.   Any water for the permitted fowl shall be clean and shall be
changed daily.
      7.   Taking up permitted animals and fowl; disposition. When any animal
or permitted fowl shall be found at large within the city and not under the
control of the owner or keeper thereof, it shall be the duty of any law
enforcement officer or animal control officer to take up such animals or fowl
and keep the same in a safe place temporarily until the owner or keeper thereof
may be found. Any such officer shall make diligent inquiries for the owners or
keepers of any such animals or fowl and shall return the same to the person
lawfully entitled thereto when ascertained; provided that the city shall be
entitled to receive from any such person the actual cost of feeding and keeping
of any animal or fowl taken up hereunder, and it shall be the duty of any such
officer having charge of such animal or fowl to keep an account of the cost
incurred thereby and to report the same to the city administrator's office;
provided, further, that when any animal or fowl taken up which shall be a stray
and whose owner is not known in the community or whose owner cannot be found,
the animal or fowl shall be disposed of according to the discretion of such
officer.
      8.   When any animal or fowl is found to be at large within the city,
except for an animal or permitted fowl named and except for a dog or a cat, it
shall be the duty of any law enforcement officer or animal control officer to
take up such animal or fowl and to dispose of the same according to the
discretion of such officer. If any provision of this section conflicts with any
other provision of City Code, this section shall control. (Ord. 1095, 10-6-
2008; amd. Ord. 1279, 6-16-2025)
5-4A-2: DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or allow to run at large
any dangerous, vicious or wild animal; or to keep, maintain or allow to go at
large any poisonous or stinging snake, insect or arachnid, save and except as
provided in this chapter. (Ord. 867-B, 6-3-1985; amd. 1998 Code)
5-4A-3: ANIMALS AT LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT, FEE:
When any domestic animal, except dogs, shall be found running at large in the
city, it shall be the duty of the chief of police or other police officer of
the city, or public service officer to take up such animal and keep the same in
a safe place temporarily until the owner or keeper thereof may be found. The
officer shall make a diligent inquiry for the owner or keeper of such animals
and shall return the same to the person lawfully entitled thereto when found;
provided, that the city shall be entitled to receive from the owner or keeper
of any such animal twenty dollars ($20.00) per day per animal for the cost of
feeding and caring for such animal. (1983 Code § 2-103; amd. 1998 Code)
5-4A-4: STRAYS:
When any domestic animal shall be found running at large and taken up as
provided by section
5-4A-3 of this article which is a stray, as defined by the laws of the state,
and whose owner or keeper cannot be found, the chief of police shall report
such taking up to the county sheriff and the animal shall be disposed of as
provided by law. (1983 Code § 2-104)
5-4A-5: ABANDONMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to bring within the city limits any dog,
cat or any other animal, and to abandon such animal. (1983 Code § 2-105)
5-4A-6: HONEYBEES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any insects known as
"Apis mellifera linnaeus" or more commonly referred to as honeybees, unless the
following rules and guidelines are observed by said person:
   A.   Housing: Honeybees shall be housed in standard, movable frame hives and
said facilities shall contain an adequate number of brood chambers and supers
in conformance with industry standards. In no instance shall said facilities
contain less than two (2) brood chambers, nor less than four (4) supers per
hive.
   B.   Manipulation Minimized: Any person maintaining honeybees shall endeavor
to keep manipulation at a minimum, except in case of an emergency, when weather
or atmospheric conditions are likely to make the honeybees more agitated or
aggressive.
   C.   Certification From Disease: No person shall purchase an established
colony of honeybees unless said colony has been certified free from disease by
the Kansas state apiary inspector or authorized agent of the Kansas board of
agriculture.
   D.   Prevention Of Swarming: Each and every person that maintains honeybees
shall follow necessary and proper industry practices and procedures to prevent
or control swarms or the swarming of honeybees.
   E.   Location: Hives shall be located away from confined pets, swimming
pools, children's play areas, driveways and doorways. In no instance shall the
maintaining or keeping of honeybees create a condition that injures or
endangers the public health, safety or welfare. Any maintenance or keeping of
said honeybees shall be in full compliance with the provisions of title 4 of
this code. (Ord. 867-B, 6-3-1985)
5-4A-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Any person who has been convicted of violating a provision
of this article may, in addition to the fine, be ordered to dispose of or
remove from the corporate limits of the city any animal, snake, insect or
arachnid which is the subject of said violation. (Ord. 867-B, 6-3-1985; amd.
1998 Code)
ARTICLE B. DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
5-4B-1: Public Service Officer
5-4B-2: License, Tag And Restrictions On Number Of Dogs
5-4B-3: Rabies Control
5-4B-4: Running At Large
5-4B-5: Impoundment
5-4B-6: Kennels
5-4B-7: Dangerous Dogs
5-4B-8: Penalty
5-4B-1: PUBLIC SERVICE OFFICER:
There shall be named and appointed by the Chief of Police, with the consent of
the City Council, a Public Service Officer who shall be responsible for
enforcement of this article and for the feed and care of those animals
captured. Such Public Service Officer shall be supplied with all insignia of
office and equipment required for the enforcement of this article. He or she
shall superintend and care for all dogs and cats impounded, provide, keep and
maintain records showing the date of impoundment, the date of notification of
the owner, harborer or custodian of such cat or dog impounded, the name of the
owner, harborer or custodian of any cat or dog impounded, if the identity of
such owner, harborer or custodian of any cat or dog impounded can be
ascertained. The Public Service Officer shall supervise the proper care and
feeding of all animals impounded, and in the event such animals are not
redeemed, shall humanely destroy such animals as set forth in section
5-4B-5 of this article. (1983 Code § 2-207; amd. 1998 Code)
5-4B-2: LICENSE, TAG AND RESTRICTIONS ON NUMBER OF DOGS:
   A.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor or
shelter, or permit to be owned, kept, harbored or sheltered within the
corporate limits of the City, any dogs for which a License Tax shall not first
have been paid, and a license tag secured therefor from the City Clerk.
   B.   Immunization Certificate: As a requisite to the procurance of a license
for a dog, the owner, custodian or harborer of such dog, shall be required to
submit to the City Clerk the immunization certificate or other satisfactory
evidence, issued by a competent and recognized veterinarian, certifying that
the dog for which the license is sought has been vaccinated or immunized
against rabies within a period of twenty four (24) months last past.
   C.   Tax For License: There shall be levied a License Tax of one dollar
($1.00) on each neutered dog, and a License Tax of three dollars ($3.00) on
each unneutered dog owned, kept, harbored or sheltered within the confines of
the City, for each calendar year. Such license fee shall be paid to the City
Clerk at the time application is made for such license. A receipt therefor
shall be issued by the City Clerk as well as a metal tag bearing the words
"20     City of Scott City, Kansas Animal License No.     " or other
appropriate inscription stamped thereon. Each metal tag so issued shall be by
the owner, custodian or harborer, affixed to a collar and the collar with the
current tax tag shall be worn by the dog so licensed. The absence of such a
collar with metal tag attached on any dog shall establish the presumption that
such dog is not licensed.
   D.   Records Maintenance: The City Clerk shall keep and maintain a record of
all license tags issued, together with record of name of owners, custodian or
harborer of the dog so licensed, the number of the tag issued, a description of
the dog so licensed, the date of issuance of the tag, the expiration date of
the license, the amount of tax collected and the date and by whom the
vaccination or immunization record was issued.
   E.   Restrictions On The Number Of Dogs: Not more than three (3) dogs shall
be allowed in the residence or apartment of the owner or the person who has
custody of a dog except the owner or person who has custody of a dog may retain
the puppies born of said dog exceeding the permissible number for twelve (12)
weeks after birth of the animals. If after that time, there are more than three
(3) dogs in any one residence or apartment the owner or person in custody of
the dogs will be in violation of this section. (Ord. 1190, 8-6-2018)
5-4B-3: RABIES CONTROL:
The keeping and harboring of any dog or cat within the confines of the City of
an age of more than six (6) months without having such dog or cat inoculated
against the disease of rabies, is prohibited and declared to be unlawful. (1983
Code § 2-202)
5-4B-4: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the owner, custodian or harborer of any dog or
cat to permit such dog or cat to run at large within the corporate limits of
the City. The term "at large", as used in this section, shall mean any dog or
cat out of doors in any place unless the dog or cat is on a leash held by a
person able to control the dog or cat. A dog or cat may be left unattended out
of doors in a yard with a fence adequate to prevent the dog or cat from leaving
the yard, or fastened to a leash, chain or rope in such a manner that the dog
or cat cannot reach any spot or area within ten feet (10') of a public street,
alley, public place or within six feet (6') of any other boundary of the
property upon which the dog or cat is so fastened.
   B.   Running At Large; Fee: The owner, custodian or harborer of such dog or
cat running at large shall be fined the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) upon the
first instance said dog or cat running at large; in the instance of a second
instance of the same dog or cat running at large, the fine shall be the sum of
one hundred dollars ($100.00); in the instance of a third or any subsequent
instance of the same dog or cat running at large, the fine shall be the sum of
two hundred dollars ($200.00). Additionally, any animals running at large
caught by the police department are subject to fees associated with the
impoundment of the animal. (Ord. 1221, 9-20-2021)
5-4B-5: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Duty To Impound: It shall be the duty of the Public Service Officer and
the Police Department to arrest and impound all dogs or cats found running at
large in the streets, alleys and public places of the City, whether the dog is
provided with a license tag or not, and it shall be the duty of the Public
Service Officer and the Police Department to arrest, catch and impound such
dogs and cats which are running at large or which have not been licensed as
provided by this article. (1983 Code § 2-208)
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment: Upon the catching, arresting and taking into
custody of any dog or cat running at large, such animal shall forthwith be
impounded in the animal shelter owned by the City. The catching and arresting
officer shall forthwith cause the owner, custodian or harborer to be notified
of the arrest of such animal. The arresting officer shall likewise prepare a
listing of all dogs and cats impounded, which list, together with the
description of the dog or cat so arrested, shall be placed on the bulletin
board of the City Clerk in the City Hall and no dog or cat shall be destroyed
until the listing has remained on such bulletin board for a period of seventy
two (72) hours, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, such period to
commence with the time listing is made and not before. In those instances where
the owner, custodian or harborer of the impounded animal cannot be determined,
the posting of the listing as hereinabove described shall be considered notice
to the owner, custodian or harborer, even though he be unknown. (1983 Code § 2-
209)
   C.   Release From Impoundment; Fee:
      1.   During the seventy two (72) hour period immediately subsequent to
the listing of the impounded animals as provided in subsection B of this
section, the owner, custodian or harborer of such impounded animal may procure
the release of such animal from the Public Service Officer by paying to the
City Clerk the License Tax on such animal, plus costs of the arrest and
impoundment of such animal, particularly the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) upon
the first instance that any one animal is impounded; in the instance of a
second impoundment of the same animal, the fee is the sum of seventy-five
dollars ($75.00); in the instance of a third or any subsequent impoundment of
the same animal, the fee is one-hundred dollars ($100.00). The number of
instances of impoundment shall reset every year on the first day of January for
that year. Additionally, the sum of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each
additional day or part thereof shall be paid by the owner, custodian or
harborer of such animal for the care of the same, plus any cost of vaccinating
or immunizing the animal against rabies. Said immunization cost forthwith paid
to the City Clerk who will in turn deliver the same to the person administering
said vaccination or immunization, upon presentation to the City Clerk of the
immunization certificate indicating vaccination or immunization from rabies.
The City Clerk shall then issue to the owner, custodian or harborer of such
animal, if it be a dog, the license tag for the year in which impoundment
occurs. On receipt of such fees by the City Clerk, he or she shall issue his or
her receipt therefor to the owner, custodian or harborer of such animal, if the
identity thereof can be ascertained.
D.   Unclaimed; Destruction: In the event a period of seventy two (72) hours
shall elapse from and after the posting of the list of impounded animals and
the License Tax fees, costs of impoundment and care are not paid, the Public
Service Officer shall humanely destroy such impounded animal. (1983 Code § 2-
211; amd. 1998 Code; Ord. 1220, 9-20-2021)
5-4B-6: KENNELS:
   A.   Defined: "Kennel" shall mean a pack or collection of dogs which are
kept, maintained or bred for hunting purposes or any collection of dogs or cats
kept or maintained for sale or distribution.
   B.   Nuisance Or Hazard Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to
own, keep, harbor or shelter, or to permit to be owned, kept, harbored or
sheltered within the corporate limits of the City, any kennel composed of two
(2) or more dogs or cats that is a public nuisance or health hazard. (1983 Code
§ 2-213)
5-4B-7: DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following terms shall
mean:
 
                Any dog that: 1. Has a propensity, tendency, or disposition to
                attack unprovoked, to cause injury, or to otherwise endanger
                the safety of human beings or domesticated animals; 2. Attacks
                a human being or domesticated animal without provocation; 3. Is
DANGEROUS DOG:  trained for fighting or that is owned, primarily or in part,
                for the purposes of fighting; or 4. Is, with or without
                provocation, urged or provoked to attack or threaten to attack
                any law enforcement officer or animal control officer, who is
                engaged in the performance of an official duty, by a person who
                is alleged to own the dog.
IMPOUND:        Taken into the custody of the Public Service Officer or the
                Police Department.
                Properly fitted with a humane device placed over the mouth of a
MUZZLE:         dog that allows the dog to pant and drink, and that is of
                sufficient strength and design to prevent the dog from biting
                any person or animal or from removing the device.
                To temporarily or permanently own, keep, harbor, shelter,
                manage, possess, or have a part interest in any animal. In the
                event that a minor owns any such animal pursuant to the
OWN:            definition herein, the head of household of which such minor is
                a member shall be deemed to own such animal for purposes of
                this definition. This definition shall also apply to the terms
                "owned", "owner", and "ownership".
                Any natural person, corporation, company, association, firm,
                partnership, business trust, estate, joint venture,
                cooperative, or any legal or commercial entity. The term
                "person" shall not include: (1) the City of Scott City, Kansas;
                (2) an animal shelter that is approved by the City to provide
PERSON:         for the keeping and care of animals for the residents and
                visitors of Scott County, Kansas and to provide for the intake,
                keeping, and care of animals seized by law enforcement
                officers, animal control officers, or other agents of the City
                or the County of Scott County, Kansas; or (3) any employee
                thereof who is engaged in the discharge and performance of the
                employee's duties.
SERIOUS INJURY: Any physical injury that results in broken bones or lacerations
                that require any sutures or cosmetic surgery.
 
   B.   Unlawful To Own a Dangerous Dog Within Corporate City Limits:
      1.   No person shall own any dangerous dog within the corporate city
limits of Scott City, Kansas.
      2.   No person shall own any dog within the corporate city limits of
Scott City, Kansas that has been deemed a dangerous dog after December 20, 2021
by Scott City Municipal Court.
      3.   No person shall own any dog within the corporate city limits of
Scott City, Kansas that has been deemed a vicious or dangerous dog by a court
of competent jurisdiction pursuant to an ordinance of any city, resolution of
any county, law of any state, or law of any other jurisdiction that would
constitute an offense that is comparable to Subsection B.1.
   C.   Impoundment And Destruction:
      1.   A dog that is alleged to be a dangerous dog by any one of the
following conditions shall be impounded or required to be muzzled by the Scott
City Police Department until the case is resolved by judgment, dismissal, or
acquittal, including any appeals, and until there is a specifically signed
authorized release from the City Attorney, Municipal Judge, or Chief of Police:
         a.   The law enforcement officer investigating the incident has
probable cause to believe that the attack was not provoked;
         b.   The law enforcement officer has probable cause to believe that
the dog has attacked a human being or domesticated animal that is properly
leashed or on its own property;
         c.   The law enforcement officer investigating the incident has
probable cause to believe that the dog poses a threat to the health and safety
of neighbors or the public; or
         d.   The Chief of Police has probable cause to believe that the dog
poses a threat to the health and safety of neighbors or the public.
      2.   A dog that was previously declared dangerous by the Scott City
Municipal Court after December 20, 2021 and that is present within the city
limits shall be immediately impounded and destroyed by the Scott City Police
Department.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly obstruct, resist,
or oppose any animal control officer or law enforcement officer in the
discharge of any official duty pursuant to this section. A violation of this
subsection shall be punishable by a term of imprisonment of not more than
twelve (12) months and by a fine of at least $500, but in no event shall the
person be fined in excess of $2,500.
      4.   No dog impounded under this code section shall be released from
police custody unless there is a specifically signed authorized release from
the City Attorney, Municipal Judge, or Chief of Police.
      5.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent any law
enforcement officer from taking whatever action is reasonably necessary to
protect the officer or any other person from injury or danger, including, but
not limited to, immediate destruction of any animal without notice to the
person alleged to own the animal. The Scott City Police Department shall have
the authority to immediately destroy any dog that poses a threat of serious
harm to public health or safety and, if, such a dog cannot be safely impounded
by the police department, then it shall be immediately destroyed.
      6.   The person cited for ownership of an impounded dog shall be
responsible for any impound fees designated by the City, the actual cost of
impound or the actual costs of destruction, and for any damage caused by the
dog.
   D.   Complaint, Procedure, and Special Sentencing Rules:
      1.   Whenever a complaint is filed with the Municipal Court of Scott
City, Kansas alleging a violation of Subsection B.1, the person so charged
shall have an expedited First Appearance before the Municipal Court Judge to
occur within ten (10) days after the filing of the complaint.
      2.   If the Municipal Judge finds the person guilty of a violation of
Subsection B.1, the Municipal Judge shall order the following remedies:
         a.   In cases that do not result in the death or serious injury of a
human being, the Municipal Judge shall order the dog be removed from the City
or be destroyed, shall order such person to pay all impound fees incurred, and
shall order the person to pay restitution to the victim of the attack or bite.
         b.   In cases that do result in the death or serious injury of a human
being, the Municipal Judge shall order the immediate destruction of the dog
unless good cause is found to order the dog not destroyed but removed from the
City, shall order such person to pay all impound fees incurred, and shall order
the person to pay restitution to the victim of the attack or bite.
         c.   In the event that a dog has been previously declared a dangerous
dog and is found within the city limits, the Municipal Judge shall order that
the dog be destroyed.
      3.   If the Municipal Judge orders the dog to be removed from the city
limits, then the Municipal Judge shall order that the dog shall not be returned
to within the city limits for the lifetime of the dog. In addition thereto, the
Municipal Judge shall order that the person found to have owned the dog shall
be required to provide City Hall with the name of the new owner and the exact
physical address of where the animal has been moved. The City may inform the
new jurisdiction of the dangerous dog designation.
      4.   The Municipal Judge shall not order or otherwise require the victim
of an attack or bite to provide documentation for restitution at any time prior
to sentencing. In the event that such victim does not or is not able to provide
restitution at the first sentencing hearing, the Municipal Judge shall grant at
least one continuance of sentencing to allow the victim adequate and reasonable
time to obtain such documentation. In the event that the victim requires a
subsequent continuance of the sentencing hearing, the Municipal Judge may
continue the sentencing hearing and, in making such determination, shall take
into consideration whether there is any fault of the victim in not timely
obtaining the documentation and whether there are any processing delays by a
third party that is in control of the documentation.
   E.   Exceptions:
      1.   No dog shall be declared a dangerous dog if the Municipal Judge
finds any of the following:
         a.   The dog was used by any law enforcement officer for any
legitimate law enforcement purposes.
         b.   The threat, injury, or damage was sustained by a person:
            (1)   Who was committing, at the time, a criminal or civil trespass
upon the premises lawfully occupied by the person alleged to own the dog.
            (2)   Who was provoking, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog
or who can be shown to have repeatedly, in the past, provoked, tormented,
abused, or assaulted the dog; or
            (3)   Who was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
         b.   The dog was:
            (1)   Responding to pain or injury, or was protecting itself and/or
it's offspring, or the real property where the dog regularly resides; or
            (2)   Protecting or defending a human being within the immediate
vicinity of the dog from an attack or assault.
   F.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person who is convicted of Subsection B.1 shall be punished by a
fine of up to One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment not to exceed
thirty (30) days, or both, except as provided in Subsection F.2.
      2.   Any person who is convicted of Subsection B.1 after the Municipal
Judge finds that the dog caused serious injury to or kills a human being or
domestic animal without provocation shall be fined up to Two Thousand Dollars
($2,000.00) or imprisonment not to exceed sixty (60) days, or both.
      3.   Any person who is convicted of Subsections B.2 or B.3 shall be
punished by a fine of up to Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500.00) or
imprisonment not to exceed one (1) year, or both. (Ord. 1075, 1-2-2007; amd.
Ord. 1094, 10-6-2008; Ord. 1190, 8-6-2018; Ord. 1229, 12-20-2021; Ord. 1258, 8-
21-2023)
5-4B-8: PENALTY:
Except as provided in subsection 5-B-7H of this article, any person violating
any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a violation and upon a
first conviction shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor
more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). Upon a second conviction, shall be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00), nor more than one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00). Upon a third and any subsequent conviction, shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00). Any person who has been convicted of violating a provision of this
article may, in addition to the above fine, be ordered to dispose of or remove
from the corporate limits of the city any dog which is the subject of said
violation. (Ord. 1075, 1-2-2007)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Sound Amplification Systems
5-5-2: Use, Possession, And Sale Of Toxic Vapors
5-5-3: Interference With Swimming Pool Operations
5-5-4: Unlawful Storage, Sale, And Discharge Of Fireworks; Unlawful Possession
Or Discharge Of Certain Fireworks
5-5-5: Failure To Comply With Bond Conditions
5-5-6: Failure To Appear
5-5-1: SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS:
   A.   Loud Systems Prohibited:
      1.   No person operating or occupying a motor vehicle on a street,
highway, alley, parking lot, or driveway shall operate or permit the operation
of any sound amplification system from within the vehicle so that the sound is
plainly audible at a distance of fifty feet (50') or more from the vehicle.
      2.   Sound amplification system means any radio, tape player, compact
disc player, loudspeaker, or other electronic device used for the amplification
of sound.
      3.   Plainly audible means any sound produced by a sound amplification
system from within the vehicle, which clearly can be heard at a distance of
fifty feet (50') or more. Measurement standards shall be by the auditory
senses, based upon direct line of sight. Words or phrases need not be
discernible and bass reverberations are included. The motor vehicle may be
stopped, standing, parked or moving on a street, highway, alley, parking lot,
or driveway.
      4.   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
operator was not otherwise prohibited by law from operating the sound
amplification system, and that any of the following apply:
         a.   The system was being operated to request medical or vehicular
assistance or to warn of a hazardous road condition;
         b.   The vehicle was an emergency or public safety vehicle;
         c.   The vehicle was owned and operated by the city or a gas,
electric, communications or refuse company;
         d.   The system was used for the purpose of giving instructions,
directions, talks, addresses, lectures or transmitting music to any persons or
assemblages of persons in compliance with ordinances of the city;
         e.   The vehicle was used in authorized public activities, such as
parades, fireworks, sport events, musical productions and other activities
which have the approval of the department of the city authorized to grant such
approval.
   B.   Penalty: Any person, individual, partnership, corporation or
association who violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of an
ordinance violation, and upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment of not more than six
(6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day any violation
hereof is found to exist or continues to exist shall be a separate offense and
punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 1006, 11-2-1998)
5-5-2: USE, POSSESSION, AND SALE OF TOXIC VAPORS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the phrase "toxic vapors" means
and includes any substance containing one or more of the following chemical
compounds or the vapors of products containing such compounds:
      Acetone;
      Amyl acetate;
      Benzol or benzene;
      Butyl acetate;
      Butyl alcohol;
      Carbon tetrachloride;
      Chloroform;
      Cyclohexane;
      Ethanol or ethyl alcohol;
      Ethyl acetate;
      Hexane;
      Isopropanol or isopropyl alcohol;
      Isopropyl acetate;
      Methyl "cellosolve" acetate;
      Methyl ethyl ketone;
      Methyl isobutyl ketone;
      Toluol or toluene;
      Trichloroethylene;
      Triorthoscresyl phosphate;
      Xylol or xylene; or
      Any other solvent, material, substance, chemical, or combination thereof
having the property of releasing toxic vapors.
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   Use Or Possession: It shall be unlawful for any person to
intentionally smell or inhale the fumes of toxic vapors or to induce any other
person to do so, or to possess toxic vapors, for the purpose of causing a
condition of or inducing symptoms of intoxication, elation, euphoria,
dizziness, excitement, irrational behavior, exhilaration, paralysis,
stupefaction, or dulling of the senses of the nervous system, or for the
purpose of, in any manner, changing, distorting, or disturbing the auditory,
visual or mental processes.
      2.   Purchase By Minor: No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall
purchase or attempt to purchase any container or object containing a toxic
vapor.
      3.   Under The Influence: It shall be unlawful for any person to be
intentionally under the influence of any toxic vapors.
   C.   Seizure From Person Under Age Of Eighteen Years: Any container or
object containing a toxic vapor, or which has contained a toxic vapor, found to
be in the possession of a person under the age of eighteen (18) years, used for
an unlawful purpose as defined in this section, shall be subject to immediate
seizure by any law enforcement officer.
   D.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who violates this section shall be
guilty of a class A violation.
   E.   Exception: This section shall not apply to the inhalation of anesthesia
for medical or dental purposes. (Ord. 1026, 4-16-2001)
5-5-3: INTERFERENCE WITH SWIMMING POOL OPERATIONS:
   A.   Interference with public swimming pool operation is intentionally or
recklessly depositing or causing to be deposited any object or substance, into,
upon or about any public swimming pool which results in the closing of such
pool pursuant to rules of the Kansas Department of Health and Environment.
   B.   Interference with public swimming pool operation is a Class B
violation. (Ord. 1269, 9-16-2024)
5-5-4: UNLAWFUL STORAGE, SALE, AND DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS; UNLAWFUL POSSESSION
OR DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN FIREWORKS:
   A.   No person, firm, or corporation shall store any fireworks anywhere in
the city, except as necessary for the performance of a public exhibition to be
held as hereinafter provided. Such storage shall be in a safe place and shall
be securely locked or guarded so that no child or unauthorized person shall
have access thereto and shall be protected from fire hazards. The fire chief of
the city shall inspect the storage to determine whether the same complies with
the terms of this paragraph.
   B.   No person, firm, or corporation shall sell any fireworks anywhere in
the city.
   C.   No person, firm, or corporation shall discharge any fireworks anywhere
in the city, except:
      1.   At a public exhibition approved by the Governing Body; or
      2.   Between the hours of eleven o’clock (11:00) a.m. and eleven o’clock
(11:00) p.m. on June 30 through July 3 and between the hours of eleven o’clock
(11:00) a.m. and eleven-fifty-nine (11:59) p.m. on July 4, provided that the
Chief of Police shall be authorized to ban such discharge if dry conditions
exist and notice of such ban is published in the official city paper on or
before June 20.
   D.   No person, firm, or corporation shall possess or discharge fireworks
commonly known and referred to as Chinese lanterns, sky lanterns, or floating
sky lanterns.
   E.   A violation of any provision of this section is a Class C violation.
(Ord. 1269, 9-16-2024)
5-5-5: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH BOND CONDITIONS:
   A.   No person shall fail to comply with any condition, restriction, or term
of any appearance bond issued pursuant to Section
1-9-7 .
   B.   A violation of subsection A. of this section is a Class A violation.
(Ord. 1269, 9-16-2024)
5-5-6: FAILURE TO APPEAR:
   A.   No person shall fail to appear at the directed time and place before
the Municipal Court on any complaint, citation, subpoena, or order that is
issued by:
      1.   A law enforcement officer, city prosecutor, Municipal Judge, judge
pro tempore, or Clerk of the Municipal Court; or
      2.   Any other city official or employee vested with authority to issue a
complaint, citation, subpoena, or order.
   B.   A violation of subsection A. is a Class C violation. (Ord. 1269, 9-16-
2024)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Traffic Regulations   1
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Incorporation Of Standard Traffic Ordinance
6-1-2: Prohibited Parking
6-1-3: Operation Of Work-Site Utility Vehicles, Micro Utility Trucks And All
Terrain Vehicles
6-1-4: Operation Of Golf Carts
6-1-5: Driver Of Commercial Vehicle Must Have A Commercial Class Driver’s
License To Operate Vehicle
6-1-1: INCORPORATION OF STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE:
   A.   Incorporating Standard Traffic Ordinance: There is hereby incorporated
by reference for the purpose of regulating traffic within the corporate limits
of the City of Scott City, Kansas, that certain standard traffic ordinance
known as the Standard Traffic Ordinance for Kansas Cities, 51st Edition,
prepared and published in book form by the League of Kansas Municipalities,
Topeka, Kansas, hereinafter referred to as the "Standard Traffic Ordinance",
save and except such articles, sections, parts, or portions as are hereafter
omitted, deleted, modified, added, or amended. One official copy of the
Standard Traffic Ordinance shall be marked or stamped "Official Copy as Adopted
by Ordinance No. 1268", with all sections or portions thereof intended to be
omitted, deleted, modified, added or amended clearly marked to show any such
omission, deletion, modification, addition, or amendment and to which shall be
attached a copy of this ordinance and filed with the City Clerk to be open to
inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours. The police
department, municipal judge, city attorney, city prosecutor, and all
administrative departments of the city charged with enforcement of the
ordinance shall be supplied, at the cost of the City, such number of official
copies of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, similarly marked, as may be deemed
expedient. All references to the Standard Traffic Ordinance as adopted and
incorporated into this Code shall be in a form designating section 6-1-
1 followed in parenthesis followed by the section number of the Standard
Traffic Ordinance, as incorporated, e.g. Section 33 of the Standard Traffic
Ordinance as adopted and incorporated shall be referred to as Section 6-1-1
(33).
   B.   Omissions: The following sections contained in Articles 8 and 14 of the
Standard Traffic Ordinance are hereby omitted and deleted:
   Section 38.1 Driving in Defiles or Canyons.
   C.   Amendment: Section 23 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, also referred
to as 6-1-1(23) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Section 23. Accident Involving Personal Injuries or Damage to Attended
Vehicle or Property; Duties of Drivers, Reports; Penalties.
      (a)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
injury to any person or damage to any attended vehicle or property shall
immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident, or as close
thereto as possible, but shall then immediately return to and in every event
shall remain at the scene of the accident until the driver has fulfilled the
requirements of Section 25.
      (b)    Violation of subsection (a) when an accident results in:
      (1)   Total property damages of less than $1,000 is a traffic offense
and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in subsection (d) of
Section 201. For the purposes of determining whether a conviction is a first,
second, third, or subsequent conviction in sentencing under this subsection,
the term "conviction" includes a conviction of a violation of any ordinance of
any city, or resolution of any county, or a law of any state that is in
substantial conformity with subsection (a). It is irrelevant whether an offense
occurred before or after conviction for a previous offense.
      (2)   Total property damages of $1,000 or more is a traffic offense and,
upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $2,500 or by
imprisonment of not more than one (1) year, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
      (3)   Injury to any person is a traffic offense and, upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $2,500 or by imprisonment of not
more than one (1) year, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
      (c)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident set forth in
subsection (a) shall comply with the provisions of section 26.1.
   D.   Amendment. Section 29 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, also referred
to as 6-1-1(29) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
      Section 29. Reckless Driving; Penalties.
         (a)   Any person who drives any vehicle in willful or wanton disregard
for the safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving.
         (b)    Upon a first conviction of a violation of this section a person
shall be sentenced to not less than five (5) days nor more than ninety (90)
days' imprisonment or fined not less than $25 nor more than $500, or sentenced
to both such fine and imprisonment. On a second or subsequent conviction of a
violation of this section, a person shall be sentenced to not less than ten
(10) days nor more than six (6) months imprisonment or fined not less than $50
nor more than $500, or sentenced to both such fine and imprisonment.
   E.   Amendment: Section 33 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, also referred
to as 6-1-1(33) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Section 33. Maximum Speed Limits.
      (a)   Except as provided in subsection (b) or when a special hazard
exists that requires lower speed for compliance with Section 6-1-1(32), the
limits specified in this section or established as authorized by law,
including, but not limited to, K.S.A. 8-1559 or K.S.A. 8-1560, and amendments
thereto, shall be maximum lawful speeds, and no person shall drive a vehicle at
a speed in excess of such maximum limits:
      (1)   Twenty (20) miles per hour in any business district;
      (2)   Thirty (30) miles per hour in any residential district;
      (3)   Twenty (20) miles per hour in any park or school zone; and
      (4)   Fifty-Five (55) or Sixty-Five (65) miles per hour in all other
locations, as provided by law.
      (b)   No person shall drive a school bus to or from school, or
interschool or intraschool functions or activities, at a speed in excess of the
maximum speed limits provided in subsection (a), except that the board of
education of any school district may establish by board policy lower maximum
speed limits for the operation of such district's school buses. The provisions
of this subsection relating to school buses shall apply to buses used for the
transportation of students enrolled in community colleges or area vocational
schools, when such buses are transporting students to or from school, or
functions or activities (K.S.A. Supp. 8-1558).
      (c)   The maximum speed limits in this section have been and may continue
to be altered by the City pursuant to K.S.A. 8-1560, and amendments thereto, or
by the Secretary of the Kansas Department of Transportation pursuant to K.S.A.
8-1559, and amendments thereto.
   F.   Amendment: Section 107 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, also referred
to as 6-1-1(107) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Section 107. Unattended Motor Vehicle; Ignition; Key and Brakes.
      (a)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it
to stand unattended on any street or highway without first stopping the engine,
locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition and effectively
setting the brake thereon and, when standing upon any grade, turning the front
wheels to the curb or side of the highway.
      (b)   For the purpose of this section, unattended shall not be construed
to mean a motor vehicle with an engine that has been activated by a remote
starter system, when the motor vehicle is locked and when the ignition keys are
not in the motor vehicle.
   G.   Amendment: Section 115 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, also referred
to as 6-1-1(115) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Section 115. Unlawful Riding on Vehicles; Persons 14 years of Age and Older.
      (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person fourteen (14) years of age or
older to ride on any vehicle or upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion.
      (b)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to allow any
person fourteen (14) years of age or older to ride on any vehicle or upon any
portion thereof not designated or intended for the use of passengers when the
vehicle is in motion.
      (c)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   An employee engaged in the necessary discharge of the employee's
duty within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise or cargo; or
      (2)    When the vehicle is being operated in parades, caravans, or
exhibitions which are officially authorized or otherwise permitted by
ordinance, resolution, or law.
      Ref: For persons under fourteen (14) years of age, see Section 182.2.
   H.   Amendment: Section 196 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, also referred
to as 6-1-1(196) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Section 196. Unauthorized Operator.
      (a)   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned
by such person and under such person's control to be driven upon any highway by
any person who has no legal right to do so, or who does not have a valid
driver's license.
      (b)   Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of an
ordinance violation, and on conviction shall be fined not more than five
hundred dollars ($500) or be sentenced to not more than ninety (90) days'
imprisonment, or sentenced to both such fine and imprisonment.
   I.   Amendment: Section 197 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, also referred
to as 6-1-1(197) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Section 197. Unauthorized Minors.
      (a)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit such person's child or
ward under the age of eighteen (18) years to drive a motor vehicle upon any
highway when such minor person is not authorized under the laws of Kansas to
drive a vehicle.
      (b)   Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of an
ordinance violation, and on conviction shall be fined not more than five
hundred dollars ($500) or be sentenced to not more than ninety (90) days'
imprisonment, or be sentenced to both such fine and imprisonment.
   J.   Amendment: Section 201.1 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, also
referred to as 6-1-1(201.1) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Section 201.1. Failure to Comply with a Traffic Citation.
      (a)   It shall be unlawful to fail to comply with a traffic citation.
Failure to comply with a traffic citation means failure either to:
      (1)   Appear before the municipal court in response to a traffic citation
and pay in full any fine and court costs imposed; or
      (2)   Otherwise comply with a traffic citation issued for an ordinance
traffic infraction. Failure to comply with a traffic citation shall be unlawful
regardless of the disposition of the charge for which such citation was
originally issued.
      (b)(1)   In addition to penalties applicable under subsection (a), when a
person fails to comply with a traffic citation, except for illegal parking,
standing, or stopping, the municipal court in which the person should have
complied with the citation shall mail notice to the person that if the person
does not appear in court or pay all fines, court costs, and any penalties
within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing notice, the Division will be
notified to suspend the person's driving privileges. The municipal court may
charge an additional fee of $5 for mailing such notice. Upon the person's
failure to comply within such thirty (30) days of mailing notice, the municipal
court shall electronically notify the Division. Upon receipt of a report of a
failure to comply with a traffic citation under this subsection, pursuant to
K.S.A. 8-255, and amendments thereto, the Division shall notify the violator
and suspend the license of the violator until satisfactory evidence of
compliance with the terms of the traffic citation has been furnished to the
municipal court. When the municipal court determines the person has complied
with the terms of the traffic citation, the court shall immediately
electronically notify the Division of such compliance. Upon receipt of
notification of such compliance from the municipal court, the Division shall
terminate the suspension or suspension action.
      (2)   (A)   In lieu of suspension under this subsection, the driver may
submit to the Division a written request for restricted driving privileges
pursuant to subsection (b) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto.
         (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to in any way limit,
restrict, or prohibit a person, whose driver's license has expired during the
period when such person's driver's license has been suspended for failure to
pay fines for traffic citations, from submitting to the Division a written
request for restricted driving privileges pursuant to subsection (b) of K.S.A.
8-2110, and amendments thereto.
      (c)   On and after July 1, 2018, except as provided in subsection (d),
when the municipal court notifies the Division of a failure to comply with a
traffic citation pursuant to subsection (b), the court shall assess a
reinstatement fee of $100 or in any amount authorized by K.S.A. 8-2110, and
amendments thereto, for each charge on which the person failed to make
satisfaction regardless of the disposition of the charge for which such
citation was originally issued and regardless of any application for restricted
driving privileges. Such reinstatement fee shall be in addition to any fine,
restricted driving privilege application fee, court costs, and other penalties.
The municipal court shall remit all reinstatement fees to the state treasurer
in accordance with the provisions of K.S.A. 75-4215, and amendments thereto.
      (d)   The municipal court shall waive the reinstatement fee provided for
in subsection (c), if the failure to comply with a traffic citation was the
result of such person enlisting in or being drafted into the armed services of
the United States, being called into service as a member of a reserve component
of the military service of the United States, or volunteering for such active
duty, or being called into service as a member of the state of Kansas national
guard, or volunteering for such active duty, and being absent from Kansas
because of such military service.
      (e)(1)   A person who fails to comply with a traffic citation pursuant to
subsection (a) and who is assessed a reinstatement fee pursuant to subsection
(c) may petition the municipal court at any time to waive payment of the fee,
any additional charge imposed pursuant to subsection (f), or any portion
thereof. If it appears to the satisfaction of the municipal court that payment
of the amount due will impose manifest hardship on the person or the person's
immediate family, the court may waive payment of all or part of the amount due
or modify the method of payment.
      (2)   A person who fails to comply with a traffic citation pursuant to
subsection (a), who is assessed a reinstatement fee pursuant to subsection (c),
and who is assessed a fine or court costs for a traffic citation may petition
the municipal court at any time to waive payment of the fine or costs, or any
portion thereof. If it appears to the satisfaction of the municipal court that
payment of the amount due will impose manifest hardship on the person or the
person's immediate family, the court may waive payment of all or part of the
amount due or modify the method of payment.
      (f)   In the event that the Kansas Supreme Court establishes an
additional charge pursuant to K.S.A. 8-2110(f), and amendments thereto, the
municipal court shall assess such additional charge in addition to any
reinstatement fee provided in subsection (c) and in the same manner as such
reinstatement fee.
      (g)   This section shall expire at 11:59 p.m. on December 31, 2024.
   K.   Amendment: Section 201.2 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, also
referred to as 6-1-1(201.2) of the Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Section 201.2. Failure to Comply with a Traffic Citation.
      (a)   It shall be unlawful to fail to comply with a traffic citation.
Failure to comply with a traffic citation means failure either to:
      (1)   Appear before the municipal court in response to a traffic citation
and pay any fine and court costs imposed as ordered by the court; or
      (2)   Otherwise comply with a traffic citation issued for an ordinance
traffic infraction. Failure to comply with a traffic citation shall be unlawful
regardless of the disposition of the charge for which such citation was
originally issued.
      (b)(1)(A)   In addition to penalties of law applicable under subsection
(a), when a person fails to comply with a traffic citation, except for any
violations provided in subsection (b)(1)(C), the municipal court shall mail
notice to the person that if the person does not appear in municipal court, pay
fines, court costs, and any penalties as ordered by the court, request a waiver
or reduction of fees, fines, and court costs pursuant to subsection (g)(1)(A),
request an alternative requirement pursuant to subsection(g)(1)(B), or request
both such waiver/reduction and alternative requirement within thirty (30) days
from the date of mailing notice, then the Division will be notified to suspend
the person's driving privileges unless such person is eligible for restricted
driving privileges pursuant to subsection (b)(1)(B) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and
amendments thereto. Any such notice shall contain a notice that, within thirty
(30) days from the date of mailing notice, the person may submit a request to
the municipal court for a waiver or reduction of fees, fines, and court costs
pursuant to subsection (g)(1)(A), request an alternative requirement pursuant
to subsection(g)(1)(B), or request both such waiver/reduction and alternative
requirement. If the person is eligible for restricted driving privileges, then
the Division will, pursuant to state law, restrict such person's driving
privileges pursuant to the terms set forth in subsection (b)(1)(B) of K.S.A. 8-
2110, and amendments thereto. The municipal court shall charge an additional
fee of $5.00 for mailing such notice. Upon the person's failure to appear in
municipal court or pay fines, court costs, and any penalties as ordered by the
court within such thirty (30) days of mailing notice, the municipal court shall
electronically notify the Division unless the municipal court has issued a
written order granting the person's request for waiver or reduction of fees,
fines, and court costs pursuant to subsection (g)(1)(A), granting the person's
request for an alternative requirement pursuant to subsection(g)(1)(B), or
request both such waiver/reduction and alternative requirement. Failure to
abide by the terms of the order shall result in the municipal court notifying
the Division that the person's license shall be suspended for the failure to
comply with a traffic citation. Upon receipt of a report of a failure to comply
with a traffic citation under this subsection, pursuant to K.S.A. 8-255, and
amendments thereto, the Division will notify the violator and suspend the
license of the violator until satisfactory evidence of substantial compliance
with the terms of the traffic citation has been furnished to the municipal
court unless such person is eligible for restricted driving privileges pursuant
to subsection (b)(1)(B) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto. If the person
is eligible for restricted driving privileges, the Division will notify the
violator that the person's driving privileges are restricted pursuant to
subsection (b)(1)(B) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto. When the
municipal court determines that the person is in substantial compliance with
the terms of the traffic citation, the court shall immediately electronically
notify the Division of such compliance. Upon receipt of notification of such
compliance from the municipal court, the Division will terminate the
restriction, suspension or suspension action.
         (B)(i)   When restricted driving privileges are approved pursuant to
subsection (b)(1)(B) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto, the person's
driving privileges will, pursuant to state law, be restricted by the Division
to driving only under the following circumstances:
            (a)   In going to or returning from the person's place of
employment or schooling;
            (b)   In the course of the person's employment;
            (c)    In going to or returning from an appointment with a
healthcare provider or during a medical emergency;
            (d)    In going to and returning from probation or parole meetings,
drug or alcohol counseling or any place the person is required to go by a
court;
            (e)    In going to or returning from dropping off or picking up one
or more children from school or child care;
            (f)    In going to or returning from purchasing groceries or fuel
for their vehicle; and
            (g)    In going to or returning from any religious worship service
held by a religious organization.
         (ii)   The Division will determine the qualifications, duration, and
any other terms and conditions of any restricted driving privileges pursuant to
subsection (b)(1)(B) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto.
         (iii)   The Division will, pursuant to subsection (b)(1)(B)(iii) of
K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto, rescind restricted driving privileges
for any person authorized pursuant to this sub(b)(1)(B) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and
amendments thereto,
         (iv)   A person operating a motor vehicle in violation of restrictions
provided in subsection (b)(1)(B)(i) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto,
shall be guilty of operating a vehicle in violation of restrictions as provided
in Section 6-1-1(195).
      (C)   (i)   Violations of the following sections shall not provide the
basis for a violation of this section: Sections 6-1-1(18), 6-1-1(63), 6-1-1
(65), 6-1-1(67), 6-1-1(68), 6-1-1(69), 6-1-1(74), 6-1-1(83), 6-1-1(85), 6-1-1
(86), 6-1-1(107), 6-1-1(124), 6-1-1(115), 6-1-1(182.2), 6-1-1(112), 6-1-1(114),
6-1-1(127), 6-1-1(129), 6-1-1(130), 6-1-1(131), 6-1-1(132), 6-1-1(133), 6-1-1
(112.1), 6-1-1(114.4), and 6-1-1(135.1).
         (ii)   The provisions of this subparagraph shall be construed and
applied retroactively. A person may petition the municipal court in which the
person should have complied with the citation that led to a prior violation of
this section. If the court determines that the person committed an offense that
does not provide the basis for a violation of this section, as amended by this
act, the court shall immediately electronically notify the division of
vehicles. Upon receipt of such notification from the informing court, the
division of vehicles shall terminate any restriction, suspension or suspension
action that resulted from the prior violation of this section.
      (2)   (A)   In lieu of suspension under subsection (b)(1) of K.S.A. 8-
2110, and amendments thereto, the driver may submit to the Division a written
request for restricted driving privileges. The driver may apply and be eligible
for restricted driving privileges pursuant to subsection (b)(2) of K.S.A. 8-
2110 if such driver has previously been approved for restricted driving
privileges pursuant to subsection (b)(1) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments
thereto.
         (B)   (i)   A person whose driving privileges have been revoked by the
Division solely for driving a motor vehicle on any highway as defined in K.S.A.
8-1424, and amendments thereto, of this state at a time when such person's
privilege to do so was canceled, suspended, or revoked for failure to comply
with a traffic citation pursuant to this section may submit to the Division a
written request for restricted driving privileges pursuant to subsection (b)(2)
(B)(i) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto. The eligibility for any such
restricted driving privileges will be determined by the Division pursuant to
subsection (b)(2)(B)(i) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto.
            (ii)   The Division will, pursuant to subsection (b)(2)(B)(ii) of
K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto, rescind restricted driving privileges
for any person authorized pursuant to subsection (b)(2)(B)(i) of K.S.A. 8-2110,
and amendments thereto, if the person is found guilty of a violation resulting
in a license suspension, revocation, or cancellation for reasons other than
failure to comply with a traffic citation.
            (iii)   A person operating a motor vehicle in violation of
restrictions provided in subsection (b)(2)(D) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments
thereto, shall be guilty of operating a vehicle in violation of restrictions as
provided in Section 6-1-1(195).
         (C)   A person whose driver's license has expired during the period
when such person's driver's license has been suspended for failure to pay fines
for traffic citations, the driver may submit to the Division a written request
for restricted driving privileges pursuant to subsection (b)(2)(C) of K.S.A. 8-
2110, and amendments thereto. The qualifications for any such restricted
driving privileges will be determined by the Division pursuant to subsection
(b)(2)(C) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto.
         (D)   Upon review and approval of the driver's eligibility, the
driving privileges will be restricted by the Division or until the terms of the
traffic citation have been substantially complied with and the municipal court
shall immediately electronically notify the Division of such compliance. If the
driver fails to substantially comply with the traffic citation, the driving
privileges will be suspended by the Division pursuant to subsection (b)(2)(D)
of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto, until the municipal court determines
the person has substantially complied with the terms of the traffic citation
and the court shall immediately electronically notify the Division of such
substantial compliance. Upon receipt of notification of such compliance from
the municipal court, the Division of vehicles will terminate the suspension
action pursuant to subsection (b)(2)(D) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments
thereto. When restricted driving privileges are approved pursuant to subsection
(b)(2)(D) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto, the person's driving
privileges will be restricted by the Division to driving only under the
following circumstances:
            (i)   In going to or returning from the person's place of
employment or schooling;
            (ii)   In the course of the person's employment;
            (iii)   In going to or returning from an appointment with a health
care provider or during a medical emergency;
            (iv)   In going to and returning from probation or parole meetings,
drug or alcohol counseling or any place the person is required to go by a
court;
            (v)   In going to or returning from dropping off or picking up one
or more children from school or child care;
            (vi)   In going to or returning from purchasing groceries or fuel
of their vehicle; and
            (vii)   In going to or returning from any religious worship service
held by a religious organization.
      (c)   Except as provided in subsection (d), when the municipal court
notifies the Division of a failure to comply with a traffic citation pursuant
to subsection (b), the court shall assess a reinstatement fee of $100. Such
reinstatement fee shall be in addition to any fine, restricted driving
privilege application fee, court costs, and other penalties. The municipal
court shall remit all reinstatement fees to the state treasurer in accordance
with the provisions of K.S.A. 75-4215, and amendments thereto. Upon receipt of
each such remittance, the state treasurer shall deposit the entire amount in
the state treasury and shall credit the first $15 of such reinstatement fee to
the judicial branch nonjudicial salary adjustment fund and of the remaining
amount, 29.41% of such moneys to the division of vehicles operating fund,
22.06% to the community alcoholism and intoxication programs fund created by
K.S.A. 41-1126, and amendments thereto, 7.36% to the juvenile alternatives to
detention fund created by K.S.A. 79-4803, and amendments thereto, and 41.17% to
the judicial branch nonjudicial salary adjustment fund created by K.S.A. 2018
Supp. 20-1a15, and amendments thereto.
      (d)   The municipal court shall waive the reinstatement fee provided for
in subsection (c), if the failure to comply with a traffic citation was the
result of such person enlisting in or being drafted into the armed services of
the United States, being called into service as a member of a reserve component
of the military service of the United States, or volunteering for such active
duty, or being called into service as a member of the State of Kansas national
guard, or volunteering for such active duty, and being absent from Kansas
because of such military service.
      (e)(1)   A person who fails to comply with a traffic citation pursuant to
subsection (a) and who is assessed a reinstatement fee pursuant to subsection
(c) may petition the municipal court at any time to waive payment of the fee,
any additional charge imposed pursuant to subsection (f), or any portion
thereof. If it appears to the satisfaction of the municipal court that payment
of the amount due will impose manifest hardship on the person or the person's
immediate family, the court may waive payment of all or part of the amount due
or modify the method of payment.
      (2)   A person who fails to comply with a traffic citation pursuant to
subsection (a), who is assessed a reinstatement fee pursuant to subsection (c),
and who is assessed a fine or court costs for a traffic citation may petition
the municipal court at any time to waive payment of the fine or costs, or any
portion thereof. If it appears to the satisfaction of the municipal court that
payment of the amount due will impose manifest hardship on the person or the
person's immediate family, the court may waive payment of all or part of the
amount due or modify the method of payment.
      (3)   The clerk of the municipal court shall make forms available to any
person seeking to petition the court to waive or reduce traffic fines, court
costs, or reinstatement fees.
      (f)   Except as provided further, the reinstatement fee established in
this section shall be the only fee collected or moneys in the nature of a fee
collected for such reinstatement. Such fee shall only be established by an act
of the legislature and no other authority is established by law or otherwise to
collect a fee. In the event that on and after July 1, 2019 through June 30,
2025 the Kansas Supreme Court establishes an additional charge pursuant to
subsection (f) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto, the municipal court
shall assess such additional charge in addition to any reinstatement fee
provided in subsection (c) and in the same manner as such reinstatement fee.
      (g)(1)   Prior to issuing an order pursuant to this section that notifies
the D to restrict or suspend a person's driving privileges, the municipal court
shall consider any request made by the person for one or both of the following
options:
         (A)   Waiver or reduction of fees, fines and court costs and allowing
for payment plans for any fees, fines and court costs; and
         (B)   alternative requirements in lieu of restriction or suspension of
driving privileges, including, but not limited to, alcohol or drug treatment or
community service.
      (2)   Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to require the court
to make written findings or written payment plan orders.
      (h)(1)   Any conviction for a failure to comply pursuant to this section
shall not be considered by the municipal court or the Division in determining
suspended or restricted driving privileges if such conviction is more than five
(5) years old.
      (2)   After the expiration of five (5) years from the date of conviction
and pursuant to subsection (h)(2) of K.S.A. 8-2110, and amendments thereto, the
Division will notify by mail any persons whose driving privileges were
suspended or restricted and have not since been restored. The Division 2ill
notify the person that the person may be eligible for driving privileges as a
result of the expiration of the five (5) years from the conviction for the
failure to comply.
      (3)   The provisions of this subsection shall be construed and applied
retroactively.
         (A)   As used in this section, "substantial compliance" or
"substantially complied" means the person has followed the orders of the
municipal court involving payments of fines, court costs, and any penalties and
has not failed substantially in making payments or satisfying the terms of the
court order.
(Ord. 1191, 8-20-2018; amd. Ord. 1197, 5-20-2019; Ord. 1202, 7-15-2019; Ord.
1218, 8-16-2021; Ord. 1227, 12-6-2021; Ord. 1242, 8-15-2022 Ord. 1268, 9-16-
2024)
6-1-2: PROHIBITED PARKING:
   A.   Main And Twelfth Streets:
      1.   It is declared to be unlawful for any person to park any motor
vehicle on either side of Main Street from the intersection of Main Street and
12th Street to the south corporate limits of the City, except in those areas
where parallel parking is permitted as indicated by a parking lane painted on
the east side of Main Street, from the intersection of Main Street and 12th
Street and extending to the intersection of Main Street and East 13th Street
(Park Lane Street).
      2.   The Street Department, under the supervision of the Chief of Police,
is authorized and directed to cause appropriate markings on the east side of
Main Street from 12th Street to East 13th Street (Park Lane Street) to indicate
permission of parallel parking.
      3.   Any person violating the provisions of subsection A1 of this section
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each
violation of this subsection. (Ord. 697, 9-4-1973)
   B.   Official Signs:
      1.   Except in compliance with law or the direction of a police officer,
no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle at any place where official signs
prohibit parking and particularly between the macadamized portion of Main
Street extending north and the west property line of property fronting on Main
Street between the northern corporate limits of the City and the intersection
of Victor Avenue and Main Street.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle may stop a vehicle on such prohibited area
to permit the passage of any emergency vehicle, fire truck, ambulance or police
car indicating its desire to pass by lights or siren.
      3.   Any immobilized vehicle shall be forthwith removed from the area
described in subsection B1 of this section. In the event such vehicle is not so
removed, the Police Department is authorized and directed to remove such
vehicle. Costs and expenses accumulated in procuring such removal shall be
charged to the owner of the vehicle so removed and such vehicle shall not be
released to the owner or custodian of such vehicle until such costs and
expenses are paid. (Ord. 821, 8-4-1980)
6-1-3: OPERATION OF WORK-SITE UTILITY VEHICLES, MICRO UTILITY TRUCKS AND ALL
TERRAIN VEHICLES:
   A.   Operation Of Work-Site Utility Vehicles, Micro Utility Trucks And All
Terrain Vehicles:
      1.   Work-site utility vehicles, micro utility trucks and all-terrain
vehicles may be operated upon the public highways, streets, roads and alleys
within the corporate limits of the city.
      2.   No work-site utility vehicles, micro utility trucks and all-terrain
vehicles shall be operated on any public highway, street, road or alley between
sunset and sunrise unless such vehicle is equipped with lights as required by
law for motorcycles. No work-site utility vehicle, micro utility truck or all-
terrain vehicle shall be operated on any interstate highway, federal highway or
state highway.
      3.   Every person operating a work-site utility vehicle, micro utility
truck or all-terrain vehicle on the public highways, streets, roads and alleys
of the city shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to a driver of a
vehicle imposed by law.
      4.   No work-site utility vehicle, micro utility truck or all-terrain
vehicle shall be operated on any public highway, street, road or alley within
the corporate city limits unless such work-site utility vehicle, micro utility
truck or all-terrain vehicle complies with the equipment requirements under
article 17 of chapter 8 of the Kansas Statues Annotated and amendments thereto.
      5.   A person operating an all-terrain vehicle shall ride only upon the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto, and such operator shall not carry
any other person nor shall any other person ride on a all-terrain vehicle,
unless such all-terrain vehicle is designed to carry more than one (1) person,
in which event a passenger may ride upon the permanent and regular seat if
designed for two (2) persons, or upon another seat firmly attached to the all-
terrain vehicle at the rear or side of the operator.
      6.   A person shall ride upon an all-terrain vehicle only while sitting
astride the seat, facing forward, with one leg on each side of the all-terrain
vehicle.
      7.   No person shall operate an all-terrain vehicle while carrying any
package, bundle, or other article which prevents such person from keeping both
hands on the handlebars.
      8.   No operator shall carry any person, nor shall any person ride, in a
position that will interfere with the operation or control of the all-terrain
vehicle or the view of the operator.
   B.   Valid Driver's License Required; Age Restriction; Penalty: No person
shall operate a work-site utility vehicle, micro utility truck or all-terrain
vehicle on any public highway, street, road or alley within the corporate
limits of the city unless such person has a valid driver's license and the
operator is eighteen (18) years of age or older. Violation of this section is
punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by
imprisonment for not more than six (6) months or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
   C.   Definitions:
 
                           Any motorized non-highway vehicle fifty inches (50")
                           or less in width, having a dry weight of one
                           thousand five hundred (1,500) pounds or less,
                           traveling on four non-highway tires, and having a
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE:       seat to be straddled by the operator. As used in
                           this subsection, "non-highway tire" means any
                           pneumatic tire six inches (6") or more in width,
                           designed for use on wheels with rim diameter of
                           fourteen inches (14") or less.
                           Any motor vehicle which is not less than forty eight
                           inches (48") in width, has an overall length,
                           including the bumper, of not more than one hundred
                           sixty inches (160"), has an unladen weight,
MICRO UTILITY TRUCK:       including fuel and fluids, of more than one thousand
                           five hundred (1,500) pounds, can exceed forty (40)
                           miles per hour as originally manufactured and is
                           manufactured with a metal cab. "Micro utility truck"
                           does not include a work-site utility vehicle.
                           Any motor vehicle which is not less than forty eight
                           inches (48") in width, has an unladen weight,
                           including fuel and fluids, of more than eight
                           hundred (800) pounds and is equipped with four (4)
WORK-SITE UTILITY VEHICLE: or more non-highway tires, a steering wheel and
                           bench or bucket-type seating allowing at least two
                           (2) people to sit side-by-side, and may be equipped
                           with a bed or cargo box for hauling materials. Work-
                           site utility vehicle does not include a micro
                           utility truck.
 
   D.   Penalty: Unless specifically provided for herein, a violation of this
section shall be deemed an ordinance traffic infraction. Upon an entry of a
plea of guilty or no contest or upon being convicted of such violation, the
penalty imposed shall be in accordance with Section 201, of the Standard
Traffic Ordinance, and amendments thereto, or such other similar provision as
the city may then have in effect.
   E.   Insurance Required; Penalty:
      1.   Every owner of a work-site utility vehicle, micro utility truck or
all-terrain vehicle shall provide liability coverage in accordance with Section
200 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, and amendments thereto, and the Kansas
Automobile Injury Reparations Act, K.S.A. 40-3101, et seq., and amendments
thereto.
      2.   All provisions of Section 200 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, and
amendments thereto, including penalty provisions, shall be applicable to all
owners and operators of work-site utility vehicles, micro utility trucks and
all-terrain vehicles.
   F.   Registration And License; Fee; Application; Inspection; Penalty:
      1.   Before operating any work-site utility vehicle, micro utility truck
or all-terrain vehicle on any public highway, street, road or alley within the
corporate limits of the city and each calendar year thereafter, the vehicle
shall be registered with the Scott City Police Department and a license plate
shall be obtained and placed on the work-site utility vehicle, micro utility
truck or all-terrain vehicle. The license fee shall be twenty-five dollars
($25.00) and five dollars ($5.00) for a renewal per calendar year, payable in
advance to the Scott City Police Department. The full amount of the license fee
shall be required regardless of the time of year that the application is made.
      2.   Application for registration of a work-site utility vehicle, micro
utility truck or all-terrain vehicle shall be made by the owner, or owner's
agent, at the Scott City Police Department. The application shall be made upon
forms provided by the city and each application shall contain the name of the
owner, the owner's residence address, or bona fide place of business, a brief
description of the vehicle to be registered (including make, model and serial
number, if applicable). Proof of insurance, as required in subsection E shall
be furnished at the time of application for registration.
      3.   Prior to the issuance of the registration and plate, each applicant
for a work-site utility vehicle, micro utility truck or all-terrain vehicle
license plate shall first present such vehicle for an official inspection. If,
upon inspection and completion of the registration application, such vehicle is
found to be in safe mechanical condition, and upon establishing proof of
insurance and payment of the fees herein provided, a license plate shall be
issued to the owner who shall attach it to the vehicle. The license plate shall
be displayed in such a manner as to be clearly visible from the rear of the
vehicle. The license plate number on the application will be recorded and then
filed in the police department.
      4.   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously remove,
destroy, mutilate or alter such license plate during the time in which the same
is operative.
      5.   The license plate issued hereunder is not transferrable. In the
event of sale or other transfer of ownership of any vehicle license under the
provisions of this section, the existing license plate and the right to use the
numbered license plate shall expire, and the license plate shall be removed by
the owner. It is unlawful for any person other than the person to whom the
license plate was originally issued to have the same in his possession.
      6.   In the event a license plate is lost or destroyed, the Scott City
Police Department, upon proper showing by the licensee and the payment of a fee
of twenty-five ($25.00), shall issue a new license in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
      7.   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
         a.   Operate, or for the owner thereof knowingly to permit the
operation, upon a public street, road, highway, or alley within the corporate
limits of the city any work-site utility vehicle, micro utility truck or all-
terrain vehicle, as defined herein, which is not registered and which does not
have attached thereto and displayed thereon the license plate assigned thereto
by the city for the current registration year.
         b.   Display, cause or permit to be displayed, or to have in
possession, any registration receipt, registration license plate or
registration decal knowing the same to be fictitious or to have been canceled,
revoked, suspended or altered. A violation of this subsection F7b shall
constitute an unclassified misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) and forfeiture of the item. A mandatory court
appearance shall be required of any person violating this subsection.
         c.   Lend to or knowingly permit the use by one not entitled thereto
any registration receipt, registration license plate or registration decal
issued to the person so lending or permitting the use thereof.
         d.   Remove, conceal, alter, mark or deface the license number plate,
plates or decals, or any other mark of identification upon any work-site
utility vehicle, micro utility truck or all-terrain vehicle. Licenses shall be
kept clean and placed as required by law so as to be plainly visible and
legible.
         e.   Carry or display a registered number plate or plates or
registration decal upon any work-site utility vehicle, micro utility truck or
all-terrain vehicle not lawfully issued for such vehicle.
         f.   Any person convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of
it, shall for the first conviction thereof be punished by a fine of not more
than one hundred dollar ($100.00); for a second such conviction within one year
thereafter, such person shall be punished by a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00); upon a third or subsequent conviction within one
year after the first conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine of not
more than three thousand dollars ($3,000.00). (Ord. 1227, 12-6-2021)
6-1-4: OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS:
   A.   Operation Of Golf Carts:
      1.   Golf carts may be operated upon the public highways, streets, roads
and alleys within the corporate limits of the city; provided, however, that no
golf cart may be operated upon any public highway, street, road and alley with
a posted speed limit in excess of thirty (30) miles per hour. No golf cart
shall be operated on any interstate highway, federal highway or state highway;
provided, however, that the provisions of this subsection shall not prohibit a
golf cart from crossing a federal or state highway or a street or highway with
a posted speed limit greater than thirty (30) miles per hour.
      2.   No golf cart shall be operated on any public highway, street, road
or alley between sunset and sunrise, unless equipped with:
         a.   Lights as required for motorcycles by Sections 183 through
Section 188 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, and amendments thereto; and
         b.   A properly mounted slow-moving vehicle emblem as required by
K.S.A. 8-1717, and amendments thereto.
      3.   Every person operating a golf cart on the public highways, streets,
roads and alleys of the city shall be subject to all the duties applicable to a
driver of a motor vehicle imposed by law.
   B.   Valid Driver's License Required Age Restriction; Penalty: No person
shall operate a golf cart on any public highway, street, road or alley within
the corporate limits of the city unless such person has a valid driver's
license and the operator is eighteen (18) years of age or older. Violation of
this section is punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000) or by imprisonment for not more than six (6) months or by both such
fine and imprisonment.
   C.   Definition: Golf cart means a motor vehicle that has not less than
three wheels in contact with the ground, an unladen weight of not more than
eighteen hundred (1,800) pounds, is designed to be operated at not more than
twenty-five (25) miles per hour and is designed to carry not more than four (4)
persons, including the driver.
   D.   Penalty: Unless specifically provided herein, a violation of this
section shall be deemed an ordinance traffic infraction. Upon an entry of a
plea of guilty or no contest or upon being convicted of such violation, the
penalty imposed shall be in accordance with Section 201 of the Standard Traffic
Ordinance, and amendments thereto, or such other similar provision as the city
may then have in effect.
   E.   Display Of Slow-Moving Vehicle Emblem:
      1.   It shall be illegal to operate a golf cart on any public highway,
street, road or alley within the corporate limits of the city unless such
vehicle displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem on the rear of the vehicle.
      2.   For the purpose of this section, a slow-moving vehicle emblem has
the same meaning as contained in K.S.A. 8-1717, and amendments thereto.
      3.   The slow-moving vehicle emblem shall be mounted and displayed in
compliance with K.S.A. 8-1717, and amendments thereto.
   F.   Insurance Required; Penalty:
      1.   When operated upon the public highways, streets, roads and alleys
within the corporate limits of the city every owner of a golf cart shall
provide liability coverage in accordance with Section 200 of the Standard
Traffic Ordinance, and amendments thereto, and the Kansas Automobile Injury
Reparations Act, K.S.A. 40-3101, et seq., and amendments thereto.
      2.   All provisions of Section 200 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, and
amendments thereto, including penalty provisions, shall be applicable to all
owners and operators of golf carts.
   G.   Registration And License; Fee; Application; Inspection; Penalty:
      1.   Before operating any golf cart on any public highway, street, road
or alley within the corporate limits of the city and each calendar year
thereafter, the vehicle shall be registered with the Scott City Police
Department and a license shall be obtained and placed on the golf cart. The
license fee shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per calendar year and five
dollars ($5.00) for a renewal per calendar year. The full amount of the license
fee shall be required regardless of the time of year that the application is
made.
      2.   Application for registration of a golf cart shall be made by the
owner, or owner's agent, at the Scott City Police Department. The application
shall be made upon forms provided by the city and each application shall
contain the name of the owner, the owner's residence address, or bona fide
place of business, a brief description of the vehicle to be registered
(including make, model and serial number, if applicable). Proof of insurance,
as required in Section 6 shall be furnished at the time of application for
registration.
      3.   Prior to the issuance of the registration and plate, each applicant
for a golf cart license shall first present such vehicle for an official
inspection. If, upon inspection and completion of the registration application,
such vehicle is found to be in safe mechanical condition, and upon establishing
proof of insurance and payment of the fees herein provided, a license shall be
issued to the owner who shall attach it to the vehicle. The license shall be
displayed in such a manner as to be clearly visible from the rear of the
vehicle. The license number on the application will be accounted for and then
filed in the police department.
      4.   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously remove,
destroy, mutilate or alter such licenses plate during the time in which the
same is operative.
      5.   The license plate issued hereunder is not transferrable. In the
event of sale or other transfer of ownership of any vehicle license under the
provisions of this section, the existing license and the right to use the
numbered license shall expire, and the license shall be removed by the owner.
It is unlawful for any person other than the person to whom the license was
originally issued to have the same in his possession.
      6.   In the event a license plate is lost or destroyed, the Scott City
Police Department upon proper showing by the licensee and the payment of a fee
of twenty-five dollars ($25.00), shall issue a new license in accordance with
the provisions of this section.
      7.   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
         a.   Operate, or for the owner thereof knowingly to permit the
operation, upon a public street, road, highway, or alley within the corporate
limits of the city any golf cart, as defined herein, which is not registered,
and which does not have attached thereto and displayed thereon the license
assigned thereto by the city for the current registration year.
         b.   Display, cause or permit to be displayed, or to have in
possession, any registration receipt, registration license or registration
decal knowing the same to be fictitious or to have been canceled, revoked,
suspended or altered. A violation of this subsection b. shall constitute an
unclassified misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) and forfeiture of the item. A mandatory court appearance
shall be required of any person violating this subsection.
         c.   Lend to or knowingly permit the use by one not entitled thereto
any registration receipt, registration license plate or registration decal
issued to the person so lending or permitting the use thereof.
         d.   Remove, conceal, alter, mark or deface the license number plate,
plates or decals, or any other mark of identification upon any work-site
utility vehicle. Licenses shall be kept clean and placed as required by law so
as to be plainly visible and legible.
         e.   Carry or display a registered number plate or plates or
registration decal upon any golf cart not lawfully issued for such vehicle.
         f.   Any person convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of
this section, shall for the first conviction thereof be punished by a fine of
not more than one hundred dollars ($100); for a second such conviction within
one year thereafter, such person shall be punished by a fine of not more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00); upon a third or subsequent conviction within
one year after the first conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine of
not more than three thousand dollars ($3,000.00). (Ord. 1236, 6-6-2022)
6-1-5: DRIVER OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLE MUST HAVE A COMMERCIAL CLASS DRIVER’S
LICENSE TO OPERATE VEHICLE:
   A.   Except when driving under a commercial class A, B or C or class A or B
instruction permit or a valid class C license and accompanied by the holder of
a commercial driver’s license valid for the vehicle being driven, no person may
drive a commercial motor vehicle unless the person has a valid commercial
driver’s license and is in immediate possession thereof and applicable
endorsements valid for the vehicle they are driving, except that no person
charged with violating this subsection shall be convicted if such person
produces in court or the office of the arresting officer a commercial driver’s
license issued to such person and valid at the time of the arrest.
   B.   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle while their driving
privilege is suspended, revoked, or canceled or while subject to a
disqualification.
   C.   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of an
out-of-service order.
   D.   Any commercial driver in violation of this section shall be guilty of a
class B misdemeanor. (Ord. 1247, 10-3-2022)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Streets, Sidewalks And Public Ways   1
Trees And Shrubbery   2
Municipal Airport   3
Maddux Park   4
Wireless Facilities   5
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Powers Of City Council
7-1-2: Street And Alley Repairs; Procedure
7-1-3: Sidewalk Construction
7-1-1: POWERS OF CITY COUNCIL:
The City Council shall have the power, by ordinance, to open, close, vacate and
name any street or alley. The City Council shall have the power to assign
street numbers to buildings, lots or homes. (1983 Code § 11-101; amd. 1998
Code)
7-1-2: STREET AND ALLEY REPAIRS; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Applicability: The following written, cross sectional drawings and
specifications are to apply for all utility companies and other entities that
have to make repairs or new installations through street and alley right of
ways in the City. (Ord. 923, 9-5-1989)
   B.   Specifications: All utility companies, construction companies or
builders, contractors or any other individual or entity shall strictly comply
with the provisions and specifications designated as Exhibit A, attached to the
Ordinance codified herein and available for inspection in the City office.
   C.   Permit Required; City Inspector: All utility companies, individuals or
entities that are confronted with new construction or repairs (except in
emergency conditions) must first obtain a written permit from the City Clerk
stating location and the extent of project. Also, the Superintendent of Public
Works and Building Official shall be notified as to the time when trenching,
backfilling and street and alley surface repairs are to be made, enabling the
City to have an inspector on the job site when the work is performed. (Ord.
923, 9-5-1989; amd. 1998 Code)
   D.   Variances: Variances of any of the conditions shown on the sectional
drawings and specifications will be considered on an individual basis in
special and unusual conditions.
   E.   Protection Of Public: All utility companies, individuals or entities
affected by this Section shall provide and maintain at all times such signs,
fences, barricades, flashing signals and flagmen as required for protection and
the prevention of accidents to the general public. All construction on Main and
5th Streets (Highway K-96 and US-83) shall also comply with the manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices, Kansas State Department of Transportation.
   F.   Indemnity: Any and all utility companies, construction companies or
builders, contractors or any other individual or entity involved in new, repair
or reconstruction of any utilities or road surfaces in the City shall indemnify
and save harmless the City from and against all losses and claims, demands,
payments, suits, actions, recoveries and judgments of every nature and
description brought or recovered against the company, builder, contractor or
any other individual or entity involved by reason of any omission or act of the
company, builder, contractor or any other individual or entity, their workmen,
agents, subcontractors or employees in the execution of the work, or in the
guarding of it. The owner of each utility company or construction company,
contractor or any other individual or entity so involved shall have insurance
in such amounts and provisions as will protect the City from any and all
contingent liability under all work permits issued by the City. (Ord. 923, 9-5-
1989)
   G.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this Section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1998 Code)
7-1-3: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Compliance Requirements:
      1.   Section Provisions: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct
or reconstruct any sidewalk in this City unless such sidewalk conforms to the
provisions of this Section. Any sidewalk constructed or reconstructed in
violation of this Section may be torn out and reconstructed and the cost
thereof assessed against the abutting property. (1983 Code § 11-201)
      2.   State And Federal Laws: These rules and regulations shall be subject
to and consistent with all State and Federal laws, rules, regulations and
requirements. (Ord. 914, 12-19-1988)
   B.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, break and
remove pavement, curb, gutter or sidewalk in the City or to construct an
entrance driveway without first applying for and receiving a permit for such
purposes; provided, that permits for any such purpose may be issued on proper
application in connection with any building permit when it is proposed to open
any street, remove or encumber any sidewalk as a necessary part of construction
work.
   C.   Supervision Of Construction: All work done under a permit issued by the
City shall be under the direction and supervision of the Superintendent of
Public Works and engineer for the City. A permit issued may be revoked at any
time that the work is not being performed satisfactorily. (Ord. 914, 12-19-
1988; amd. 1998 Code)
   D.   Conformity To Established Grade: All sidewalks constructed or
reconstructed in this City shall be constructed on the established grade. (1983
Code § 11-202)
   E.   Uniformity Within Same Block: Sidewalks must be of the same type and of
the same width on the street frontage in any given block. (1983 Code § 11-203)
   F.   Curb Sidewalks: Curb sidewalks may be constructed within the City if:
      1.   The existing sidewalk on the frontage of any given block is of the
curb type; or
      2.   The resident property owners owning more than one-half (1/2) of the
property abutting on the street where the construction is proposed have signed
a petition favoring a curb-type sidewalk. (1983 Code § 11-204)
   G.   Business Districts: Sidewalks constructed or reconstructed in business
areas where the building is on, or approximately on, the property line shall
extend from the building to the curb. (1983 Code § 11-205)
   H.   Removable Section: All sidewalks constructed or reconstructed as
provided by subsections F and G of this Section shall have at intervals of not
greater than twenty feet (20'), a section constructed so as to be removable
without causing damage to the section or the remainder of the sidewalk. Said
removable section shall be at least four feet wide and at least four feet long
(4' x 4'). (1983 Code § 11-206)
   I.   Construction Material; Size: All sidewalks constructed or reconstructed
as provided by this Section shall be constructed of concrete, shall be at least
four feet (4') wide and shall be at least four inches (4") thick. (1983 Code §
11-207)
   J.   Petition For Construction: When a petition, signed by not less than ten
(10) citizens owning real estate in a ward, praying for the construction of a
sidewalk or sidewalks in such ward, is filed with the City Clerk, the City
Council may, in its discretion, by resolution order such sidewalk or sidewalks
to be built. (1983 Code § 11-208)
   K.   Inadequate Or Unsafe; Condemnation, Reconstruction: When any sidewalk,
in the opinion of the City Council, becomes inadequate or unsafe for travel
thereon, the City Council may adopt a resolution condemning such sidewalk and
providing for the construction of a new sidewalk in place of the sidewalk
condemned. (1983 Code § 11-209)
   L.   Notice, Publication, Construction By Contract: The resolution providing
for the construction or reconstruction of sidewalk shall give the owner of the
abutting property not less than thirty (30) days, nor more than sixty (60)
days, after its publication in which to construct or cause to be constructed or
reconstructed the sidewalk at his own expense. Such resolution shall be
published once in the official City newspaper. If the sidewalk is not
constructed by the abutting property owner within the time specified, the City
Council shall cause the work to be done by contract. (1983 Code § 11-210)
   M.   Abutting Owner, Construction By; Request To City: Nothing in this
Section shall prohibit the owner of property abutting on a street who desires
to construct or reconstruct a sidewalk from doing so without any petition or
condemning resolution, if he does so at his own expense and in accordance with
this Section. If such property owner desires the sidewalk to be constructed or
reconstructed by the City and an assessment levied as provided in other cases,
he shall file a request with the City Council and the City Council may, in its
discretion, provide for the construction or reconstruction of the sidewalk in
the same manner as in cases where citizens file petitions. (1983 Code § 11-211)
   N.   Repairs: It shall be the duty of the owner of the abutting property to
keep the sidewalks in repair, but the city may, after giving five (5) days'
notice to the owner or his agent, if known, of the necessity for making
repairs, and without notice if the lot or piece of land is unoccupied, make all
necessary repairs at any time. The same shall be done and the cost thereof
assessed against the property abutting the property so repaired. (1983 Code §
11-212)
   O.   Construction Requirements: In addition to the rules, regulations and
specifications promulgated by the city with respect to driveway approaches,
etc., the following requirements shall be complied with in work done under the
provisions of this section: (Ord. 914, 12-19-1988)
      1.   No curb cuts shall be made beyond any property line as projected,
except by consent in writing by the adjoining property owner and approved by
the superintendent of public works or engineer for the city. (Ord. 914, 12-19-
1988; amd. 1998 Code)
      2.   The owner and contractor shall protect the public from injury and/or
damage during construction of driveway approaches, etc., and it is hereby
stipulated as an essential condition of the issuance of a permit that the city
shall not be liable for damage which may arise from the prosecution of said
work.
      3.   The top of the paving of the driveway slab at the curb line shall
not extend into the gutter beyond the face of the curb, and shall not be
constructed in a manner that will in any way interfere with or obstruct the
drainage of the street, or interfere with the use of the street for the purpose
of travel.
      4.   Where it is possible, the outside of the driveway approach shall be
a straight grade from the top of the curb to the grade of the outside sidewalk
line.
      5.   All business driveway approaches shall be paved. (Ord. 914, 12-19-
1988)
   P.   Curb Cuts For Driveways:
      1.   Residential: Residential curb cutting width not to exceed thirty six
feet (36').
      2.   Commercial: Commercial curb cutting width not to exceed fifty feet
(50').
The above requirements may be waived upon application to the engineer for the
city and showing of good cause as defined by good engineering practices. (Ord.
1162, 10-20-2014)
   Q.   Width And Location Of Driveway Approaches: In addition to the width
restriction relative to driveway approaches, the following limitations on the
width and location of driveway approaches for each parcel of land shall also be
complied with:
      1.   Where the frontage of a parcel of land does not exceed fifty feet
(50') in width, there may be constructed only one driveway approach.
      2.   Where the frontage of the parcel of land exceeds fifty feet (50') in
width, the curb cuts for driveway approaches shall not exceed sixty percent
(60%) of the frontage of said parcel of land; provided, however, that at least
one curb parking space shall separate each driveway approach.
      3.   No portion of a driveway approach, except the curb return, shall be
constructed within fifteen feet (15') of a corner, and in no case closer than
two feet (2') from the property line extended.
      4.   Whenever any curb is cut for the purpose of constructing a driveway
approach, it shall be entirely cut and removed, and the curb and gutter, if
any, shall be replaced by sectional paving with expansion joints to prevent the
breaking of the adjacent curb and gutter; and the curb at each side of the
approach shall be replaced by a sectional curb rounded off on a radius of at
least two feet (2').
      5.   Driveway approaches shall be constructed so as not to interfere with
or change the grade of any existing street or sidewalk.
   R.   Curb Cutback For Parking: No person shall remove or cut back the
curbing along any street for the purpose of widening the area for parking
vehicles in said street, unless a permit has been obtained to do such work.
(Ord. 914, 12-19-1988)
   S.   Unusual Driveway Approaches; Approval Required: Any plans submitted to
the superintendent of public works for approval which include or involve
unusual driveway approaches or problems, shall be referred by the
superintendent of public works to the engineer for the city for his approval
before a permit shall be issued. (Ord. 914, 12-19-1988; amd. 1998 Code)
   T.   Maintenance And Removal Of Driveway Approach And Entrance:
      1.   Every driveway approach or entrance to abutting property shall be
maintained and kept in a safe condition by the owner of the abutting property,
and any such driveway approach which shall not be so maintained and kept or
which shall interfere with or obstruct the drainage carried by such street or
the use of said street for the purpose of travel shall be repaired to conform
with the specifications of this Section or be removed. Upon removal of any such
driveway, that portion of the street occupied by the same shall be restored as
nearly as practicable to its former condition and all curbing shall be
replaced.
      2.   Whenever any driveway approach constructed under the provisions of
these regulations no longer provides access for vehicles to something definite
on private property, such as a parking area, a driveway or a door at least
eight feet (8') wide, intended and used for the entrance of vehicles, such
driveway approach shall be removed forthwith, and that portion of the street
occupied by said driveway shall be restored as specified in subsection T1 of
this Section. This provision shall not apply when said driveway approach is
converted to use as an off-street parking space or ramp. The same shall be
properly maintained pursuant to this Section.
   U.   Variances For Unusual Conditions: The City Council is authorized to
grant variances from the strict application of the provisions of this Section,
provided they first determine that the following conditions are present:
      1.   The exception or variance desired arises from peculiar physical
conditions not ordinarily existing in similar districts in City or is due to
the nature of the business or operation on the abutting property.
      2.   That the exception or variance desired is not against the public
interest, particularly safety, convenience and general welfare.
      3.   That the granting of the permit for the exception or variance will
not adversely affect the rights of adjacent property owners or tenants.
      4.   That the strict application of the terms of this Section will work
unnecessary hardship on the property owner or tenant. (Ord. 914, 12-19-1988)
CHAPTER 2
TREES AND SHRUBBERY
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Care Of Trees; Height Above Streets
7-2-3: Distance From Street Corners And Fire Hydrants
7-2-4: Distance From Curb And Sidewalk
7-2-5: Distance From Utilities
7-2-6: Dead Or Diseased Tree Removal On Private Property
7-2-7: Condemnation; Failure To Comply With Notice
7-2-8: Removal Of Imminently Hazardous Trees
7-2-9: Public Tree Care
7-2-10: Tree Topping
7-2-11: Removal Of Stumps
7-2-12: Interference With City
7-2-13: Arborists License And Bond
7-2-14: Public Utilities; Authority To Cut Or Trim
7-2-15: Review By City Council
7-2-16: Penalty
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Street trees are herein defined as trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other
woody vegetation on land lying between property lines on either side of all
streets, avenues, or ways within the city.
   B.   Park trees are herein defined as trees, shrubs, and all other woody
vegetation in public parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the
city, or to which the public has free access as a park. (Ord. 1243, 9-19-2022)
7-2-2: CARE OF TREES; HEIGHT ABOVE STREETS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every owner of real property situated in the
city and abutting upon or adjacent to any street, avenue, boulevard, public
way, highway or alley in the city to care for, cultivate, trim, prune, cut,
keep and maintain, or cause to be cared for, cultivated, trimmed, pruned, cut,
kept or maintained, all trees and shrubs kept, maintained, growing or planted
thereon and in the parking or parkings abutting upon or adjacent to such real
property in such manner that such trees and shrubs and the branches and limbs
thereof shall not in any manner interfere with public travel and use of the
streets, avenues, boulevards, public ways, highways, alleys and sidewalks, or
obscure the vision of any person using or desiring to use the streets, avenues,
boulevards, public ways, highways, alleys or sidewalks, or obscure or interfere
with street lighting, traffic control devices or traffic signs, or constitute a
menace or danger to any person using or desiring to use the streets, avenues,
boulevards, public ways, highways, alleys and sidewalks.
   B.   All such trees and shrubs shall be so planted and cultivated as not to
extend lower than eight (8) feet above the surface of any sidewalk and not
lower than fourteen (14) feet from the traveled portion of any street, avenue,
alley or other public way in the city. No pruning within any street or right-
of-way shall be done which results in topping as prohibited in
7-2-10. All trees on public or private property in violation of this section or
deemed a hazard to the public safety shall be subject to
7-2-7. (Ord. 1243, 9-19-2022)
7-2-3: DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   No street tree shall be planted closer than twenty-five (25) feet of
any street corner, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or
curblines.
   B.   No street tree shall be planted closer than ten (10) feet of any
fireplug.
   C.   Trees planted before the passage of this chapter shall be excluded from
this section unless such tree constitute a hazard to life, property, public
safety, or public utilities. (Ord. 1243, 9-19-2022)
7-2-4: DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK:
   A.   No trees may be planted under or within ten (10) lateral feet from any
curbline or five (5) feet beyond any sidewalk, whichever is greater.
   B.   Trees planted before the passage of this chapter shall be excluded
unless such tree constitute a hazard to life, property, public safety, or
public utilities. (Ord. 1243, 9-19-2022
7-2-5: DISTANCE FROM UTILITIES:
   A.   No street trees shall be planted under or within ten (10) lateral feet
of any overhead utility wire, or over or within five (5) lateral feet of any
public underground water line, public sewer line, transmission line or other
utility.
   B.   Trees planted before the passage of this chapter shall be excluded
unless such trees constitute a hazard to life, property, public safety, or
public utilities. (Ord. 1243, 9-19-2022)
7-2-6: DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
The City shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the city, when such trees constitute a hazard
to life or property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential
threat to other trees within the city. (Ord. 1243, 9-19-2022)
7-2-7: CONDEMNATION; FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE:
Any owner or occupant of any property determined to be in violation of section
7-2-2 through
7-2-6 shall be notified by the City Administrator or his/her designee and such
notice shall require treatment, pruning or removal in conformity for sections
7-2-2 through
7-2-6 within ten (10) days after the date of such notice. Upon the expiration
of such period, the City Administrator or designee may cause the treatment,
pruning or removal to be done and report the cost of such removal to the City
Clerk and the cost of such treatment, pruning or removal shall be paid by the
owner of the property or shall be assessed and charged against the lot or
parcel of ground on which the tree, tree materials or shrub was located. The
City Clerk is authorized, upon determination of the amount to be assessed to
any such lot or parcel of ground, to furnish a written notice by United States
mail to the last known address of the owner or agent of the amount of such
assessment. The City Clerk shall at the time of certifying other city taxes to
the County Clerk, certify the unpaid cost to be so assessed, and the County
Clerk shall extend the unpaid cost on the tax roll of the county against the
lot or parcel of ground. The cost of such work shall be paid from the general
fund or other proper fund of the city and such funds shall be reimbursed when
payment for such treatment or removal is received or when such assessments are
collected and received by the city. (Ord. 1243, 9-19-2022)
7-2-8: REMOVAL OF IMMINENTLY HAZARDOUS TREES:
The City shall have the right to cause the removal of any imminently hazardous
tree on private real property within the city, when such tree, in the opinion
of the City Administrator and Superintendent of Public Works, constitutes an
immediate threat to life or property, if not removed. The City Administrator or
other employee designated by the City Administrator shall notify the owner or
person in charge of the real property where the tree is located that the tree
must be removed. Notification shall be made in the most expedient manner, with
proof of notification preserved by the City. Removal shall be done by the owner
at the owner's expense within thirty-six (36) hours after the date of notice.
Upon failure of the owner to comply with the notice, the city may remove the
tree and assess the cost of removal as more specifically described in
7-2-7. If the owner or other person in charge of the real property where the
tree is located cannot be given notice about the tree, the City may remove the
tree. If removal of the tree is done without notice to the owner or other
person in charge of the real property where the tree is located, the City may
not assess the cost of removal as provided in
7-2-7. (Ord. 1243, 9-19-2022)
7-2-9: PUBLIC TREE CARE:
The City shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to
preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The City
Council may remove or cause or order to be removed without notice, any tree or
part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature
poses an imminent threat to any property, sewers, electric power lines, gas
lines, water lines, or other public improvements, or is affected with any
injurious fungus, insect, or other pest. The cost of such removal shall be
collected in the same manner as specified in
7-2-7. This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent
property owners providing that the selection and location of said trees is in
accordance with sections
7-2-3 through
7-2-5. (Ord. 1243, 9-19-2022)
7-2-10: TREE TOPPING:
It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or City
department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property.
Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three (3) inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from
this chapter at the determination of the City Council. (Ord. 1243, 9-19-2022)
7-2-11: REMOVAL OF STUMPS:
In instances where trees have been removed due to damage of public utilities or
infrastructure, stumps shall be removed below the surface so that roots will
not cause further damage. (Ord. 1243, 9-19-2022)
7-2-12: INTERFERENCE WITH CITY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
City, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the planting,
cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing any of street trees, park
trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this chapter. (Ord. 1243,
9-19-2022)
7-2-13: ARBORISTS LICENSE AND BOND:
It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning, treating or removing street trees or park trees within
the City without first applying for and procuring a license. The license fee
shall be seventy-five dollars ($75.00) annually in advance; provided, however,
that no license shall be required of any public service company or City
employee doing such work in the pursuit of their public service endeavors.
Before any license shall be issued, each applicant shall first file evidence of
possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for the death or injury of any one person and
three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for the death or injury of any
number of persons in any one accident and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00)
for property damage in any one accident. Such policies of insurance shall be
issued by some insurance company authorized to do business in the State of
Kansas. An arborist may qualify as to the insurance requirements by filing a
certificate with the City Clerk executed by the resident agent of such company
stating that the required policy of insurance has been issued by such company
for the purpose required and that such insurer will not cancel the policy
except upon giving thirty (30) days notice in writing to the City; and that the
certificate shall be filed for an annual period of such year. (Ord. 1243, 9-19-
2022)
7-2-14: PUBLIC UTILITIES; AUTHORITY TO CUT OR TRIM:
   A.   Operating Under Franchise: It shall be lawful for any privately owned
utility operating under a franchise granted by the City Council and owning or
using transmission lines in the City to cut or trim trees, shrubbery, hedges,
or other growths in the parking or public ways of the City which interfere with
such lines.
   B.   Manner Of Trimming: If any trees, shrubbery, or hedges within the
purview of this section are trimmed, it shall be the duty of the person
trimming the same to perform such work in a careful and workmanlike manner so
as not to injure or damage such trees, shrubbery, or hedges, and to remove all
debris from the parking and pavement. All such work shall be subject to the
approval of the Superintendent of Public Works. (Ord. 1243, 9-19-2022)
7-2-15: REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL:
Any person may appeal any ruling or order subject to this chapter to the City
Council who may hear the matter and make final decisions. (Ord. 1243, 9-19-
2022)
7-2-16: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be sentenced, upon
conviction or plea of guilty, to a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars
($100.00). (Ord. 1243, 9-19-2022)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
SECTION:
7-3-1: Established
7-3-2: Jurisdiction Of City
7-3-3: Airport Commission
7-3-4: Lease Of Airport And Facilities
7-3-5: Commercial Activities; Permit And Fee Requirements
7-3-6: Rentals
7-3-7: Funds And Proceeds; Use
7-3-8: Rules And Regulations Established
7-3-9: Prohibited Acts And Activities
7-3-10: Penalty
7-3-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established the Scott City Municipal Airport on the land
acquired for the purpose of an airport and described as follows: the Northwest
Quarter (NW/4) of Section Twenty (20), Township Eighteen (18) South, Range
Thirty-two (32) West of the Sixth Principal Meridian and the West One-half (W/
2) of the Southwest Quarter (SW/4) of Section Twenty (20), Township Eighteen
(18) South, Range Thirty-two (32) West of the Sixth Principal Meridian, all in
Scott County, State of Kansas. (1983 Code § 14-101)
7-3-2: JURISDICTION OF CITY:
The City does hereby extend all of its police powers and ordinances pertaining
thereto and over said airport property and grounds to the same degree and with
the same force and effect as if said airport was situated within the corporate
limits of said City. (1983 Code § 14-113)
7-3-3: AIRPORT COMMISSION:
   A.   Established; Appointment: There shall be and is hereby established an
Airport Commission, consisting of five (5) members. The members shall be
appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council. (1983 Code § 14-
102; amd. 1998 Code)
   B.   Qualifications: The members of the Commission shall be qualified
citizens of the City and said Commission shall serve as a board of advisors for
the airport operations, maintenance and development. (1983 Code § 14-103)
   C.   Term Of Office: The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall
appoint five (5) members for a two (2) year period of time and said term shall
begin with the first regular meeting in May when the new Mayor takes office.
(1983 Code § 14-104; amd. 1998 Code)
   D.   Duties: The primary duties of the Commission shall be to make
recommendations to the City Council with respect to the following:
      1.   Operational And Use Rules And Regulations: Establishment of rules
and regulations for the use and operation of the airport.
      2.   Budget: Recommend a yearly budget for the airport operation.
      3.   Contract Terms For Manager: Recommend contract terms for the Airport
Manager.
      4.   Development Plans: Recommend development plans for the improving of
the operation and the facilities of the airport.
      5.   Operating Policies: Be responsible for the operating policies
developed by them and approved by the City Council. (1983 Code § 14-105)
7-3-4: LEASE OF AIRPORT AND FACILITIES:
The City may enter into one or more leases for the use and operation of the
aforesaid airport and the facilities thereof and for the rental of lands
constituting the same, with persons, firms or corporations. All such leases
and/or contracts shall be for fixed and limited periods of time, and shall
specify the consideration or compensation to be paid the City for all such
purposes and fix the duties of the respective parties relative to the
improvement and maintenance of said airport and the ownership of all buildings
and structures thereon. (1983 Code § 14-106)
7-3-5: COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES; PERMIT AND FEE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application For Permit: No person shall operate any commercial activity
at the Scott City Municipal Airport without first obtaining a permit therefor
from the City Council; and no permit shall be issued until such person shall
file with the City Clerk an application for such permit and give satisfactory
proof of the following: (1983 Code § 14-114)
      1.   Liability Insurance: Proof of liability insurance in the amount of
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per person; fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) property damage; and three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00)
for any one accident. (1983 Code § 14-114; amd. 1998 Code)
      2.   FAA And Other Agency Rules: Proof that the applicant meets all
Federal Aviation Agency rules and regulations and complies with all other
Federal, State and local rules, regulations, laws and ordinances. (1983 Code §
14-114)
   B.   Fee For Permit:
      1.   A permit fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) is hereby established
and levied for the following commercial operations at the Scott City Municipal
Airport:
         a.   Charter flight;
         b.   Aircraft sales;
         c.   Aircraft rental;
      2.   A permit fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00) is hereby established
and levied for any of the following commercial operations at the Scott City
Municipal Airport, including, but not limited to, the following:
         a.   Aircraft engine overhaul and repair;
         b.   Aerial crop spraying and dusting;
         c.   Gas and oil sales;
         d.   Photography;
         e.   Banner towing;
         f.   Ambulance service;
         g.   Air taxi; and
         h.   Any and all other commercial operations. (1983 Code § 14-115)
   C.   Term; Partial Fee: All such permits issued hereunder shall be on such
forms as may be furnished by the City Clerk and shall expire on the December 31
of the same year of their issue; provided however, the license issued in any
year after July 1 of such year, shall be issued for or upon payment of one-half
(1/2) of the required yearly fee. (1983 Code § 14-116; amd. 1998 Code)
   D.   Revocation Of Permit: The City Council, upon satisfactory proof that
any person operating any commercial operation for which a permit is required by
the provisions of this Chapter, or upon satisfactory proof of the violation of
any ordinance, rule or regulation of said City pertaining to the airport
operations, may suspend or revoke the permit provided for herein. (1983 Code §
14-118)
7-3-6: RENTALS:
   A.   Airport Land: Lessees of Municipal airport land, rented to private
users for purposes of erecting thereon a privately- owned hanger for private
use, shall pay to the City rent at the rate of one dollar ($1.00) per running
foot, per calendar year.
   B.   Airport Manager Hanger: Rental on any large privately-owned hanger of
the Airport Manager shall be agreed upon between the City and said Airport
Manager, payable to the City. (1983 Code § 14-117)
   C.   City-Owned Hangers: The renting of City-owned hangers shall be on a
monthly lease of forty two dollars ($42.00) per month and shall be paid to the
City Clerk. (1983 Code § 14-117; amd. 1998 Code)
7-3-7: FUNDS AND PROCEEDS; USE:
All funds and proceeds coming to the City by reason of any lease, contract or
otherwise from the operation of said airport shall be paid into the General
Fund of the City as available revenue for the purposes of said Fund and the
operation and improvement of said airport shall be budgeted as a department of
said Fund as provided by law. In the event that the City hereafter shall
administer the Municipal airport as a regular department of the City as
provided by ordinance, the City Council is authorized to establish a revolving
fund out of the City budget and out of the receipts from the operation of said
department in an amount determined by them to be reasonable and sufficient for
the businesslike operation of said airport department. The profits arising from
the operation of said airport department after payment of all necessary
operating expenses, including improvements of the airport and the establishment
of the revolving funds, shall be applied to reduce the tax levy for the
budgeted Airport Fund. (1983 Code § 14-107)
7-3-8: RULES AND REGULATIONS ESTABLISHED:
The Airport Commission, with the approval of the City Council, shall prepare
and post suitable rules and regulations for the public use of the Scott City
Municipal Airport. The said rules shall provide for the location, use or hire
of facilities on the said airport, and the charges for services made available
or commodities sold. Said rules shall adopt and include applicable rules and
regulations of the Federal Aviation Authority. The Airport Commission shall be
primarily charged with enforcement of all such rules and regulations and shall
report violations thereof to the City Council and Federal authorities as the
case may be. (1983 Code § 14-108)
7-3-9: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Unlawful Use Of Buildings And Facilities: It shall be unlawful for any
person to use or enter in or upon any building or facilities of said airport,
except persons duly authorized by proper authority and except those persons,
their duly authorized employees, representatives and agents, holding use or
lease agreements on, in or to certain buildings and/or facilities, such persons
to be limited to access to such buildings and/or facilities for such lease
agreements are effective, and except to bona fide customers, clients or other
persons having business with such users or lessees; and excepting spectators
and participants attending public or private functions within an area
designated for such purposes. (1983 Code § 14-109)
   B.   Vehicles On Airport Grounds; Speed Limit: It shall be unlawful for any
person to use or travel upon any portion of said airport, except when the same
shall be clearly opened and maintained for public use or travel. Speed of all
vehicles shall not exceed thirty (30) miles per hour on any public way of said
airport, except that speed may be limited to twenty (20) miles per hour in
congested or hazardous areas by posting of signs indicating such speed limits.
(1983 Code § 14-110)
   C.   Trespassing: It shall be unlawful for any person to go in or upon any
ground, building or facility of said airport, except as authorized by Section
7-3-8 of this Chapter and subsection A of this Section and any person found on
or in any such place contrary to the provisions of this subsection shall be
guilty of trespassing and punishable as provided in Section
7-3-10 of this Chapter. (1983 Code § 14-111)
   D.   Damage To Buildings Or Facilities: It shall be unlawful for any person
to damage, destroy or deface wilfully any property, buildings, facilities,
equipment or interfere with the use thereof, belonging to or any part of said
airport located or in use thereon, whether belonging to the City or to any
person using any facility of said airport. (1983 Code § 14-112)
7-3-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day's violation shall constitute a separate violation
of this Chapter. (1983 Code § 14-119; amd. 1998 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MADDUX PARK
SECTION:
7-4-1: Prohibited Conduct
7-4-2: Enforcement
7-4-3: Penalty
7-4-1: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
The following activities shall be prohibited in Maddux park, a city park
located in Webster's addition to the city, between the hours of ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. each day:
   A.   Skateboarding, rollerblading or bicycle riding.
   B.   Playing, using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated
any radio, tape recorder, cassette player, CD player or other device for
reproducing sound generated is audible at a distance of fifty feet (50') from
the device producing the sound. (Ord. 1027, 7-2-2001)
7-4-2: ENFORCEMENT:
Any authorized police officer shall issue a citation and uniform notice to
appear for any violation under this chapter. (Ord. 1027, 7-2-2001)
7-4-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a class C
violation and shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs. (Ord. 1027, 7-2-2001)
CHAPTER 5
WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Installation Of Wireless Facilities
7-5-2: Small Cell Wireless Facilities
7-5-1: INSTALLATION OF WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Applicants desiring to place wireless facilities within the City of
Scott City will submit a complete building permit.
   B.   If the wireless facility is to be placed in a City right-of- way, the
applicant will fill out the Right-Of-Way Addendum to the Building Permit
Application.
   C.   The City Clerk will develop a Right-Of-Way Application procedure to be
approved by Council.
   D.   The City shall process all applications subject to time limits as
indicated in the FCC Order currently in effect.
   E.   The application fee for collocation including up to five (5) small
wireless facilities is five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each additional small
wireless facility beyond five (5) shall incur an application fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
   F.   The application fee to install a new pole intended to support one or
more wireless facilities is one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   G.   The annual access fee for right-of-way access is two hundred seventy
dollars ($270.00) per facility.
   H.   The annual lease fee for attachment to a City owned structure is two
hundred seventy dollars ($270.00) per facility. (Ord. 1199, 5-20-2019)
7-5-2: SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   No small cell wireless facilities shall be placed in the public right-
of-way or frontage on Kansas State Highway 96 (K-96), U.S. Route 83 (US-83), or
any City street.
   B.   All other placement shall be governed by The City of Scott City Small
Cell Standards on file in the City. Such are hereby adopted and declared to be
the official standards governing the placement of small cell antenna structures
within the City.
   C.   Such standards shall constitute the basis for determination of approval
of submitted applications. Application fee and timeline are addressed in
section
7-5-1 of this chapter.
   D.   If any provision of this section and standards or the application
thereof shall, for any reason and to any extent, be invalid or unenforceable,
neither the remainder of this section and standards nor the application thereof
shall be affected thereby, but instead shall be enforced to the maximum extent
permitted by law. (Ord. 1200, 6-3-2019)
TITLE 8
WATER AND SEWER
Sewer Use Charges; Regulations   1
Water System Regulations   2
Water Supply Watch, Warning Or Emergency   2A
Cross-Connection Control   3
CHAPTER 1
SEWER USE CHARGES; REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Authority And Purpose
8-1-2: Definitions
8-1-3: Enforcement
8-1-4: Application
8-1-5: Rates
8-1-6: Billing Procedure
8-1-7: Unlawful Discharge
8-1-8: User Class Determination And Reporting
8-1-9: Measurement Of Wastes
8-1-10: Billing Rates For Computing User Charge
8-1-11: Reporting, Billing And Collection
8-1-12: User Appeal Procedure
8-1-13: Penalty
8-1-14: Appendix A; Prohibited Discharges
8-1-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   This Chapter is promulgated pursuant to the statutory authority
contained in this Chapter and Kansas Statutes Annotated, as amended.
   B.   The purpose of this Chapter is to establish an orderly and fair system
whereby the operation, maintenance and replacement costs incurred by the City
in treating and disposing of the sewage, industrial waste and other wastes
generated by each user is charged to that user in proportion to his use of the
sewage collection and treatment facilities of the City, as required by the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act, amendments of 1972 (P.L. 92-500) and the
Clean Water Act of 1977 (P.L. 95-217) and the rules and regulations of the
United States Environmental Protection Agency, promulgated pursuant thereto.
(Ord. 928, 3-6-1990)
8-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context specifically indicates otherwise:
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of dissolved oxygen required
for biochemical oxidation of decomposable matter under aerobic conditions in a
period of five (5) days at a temperature of twenty degrees Celsius (20°C).
   CITY COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Scott City, Kansas.
   DISTRICT OR SANITARY DISTRICT: The sewer works or system of Scott City,
Kansas, a unit of local government organized and existing under, and by virtue
of, the laws of the State of Kansas.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Any solid, liquid or gaseous wastes, including cooling
water resulting from any industrial, commercial or manufacturing process or
from the development, recovery or processing of natural resources or wash water
and other products in connection with petroleum transport vehicles.
   LARGE COMMERCIAL-INDUSTRIAL USER: A nongovernmental, nonresidential user
engaged in commercial or industrial activities which discharges any waste
exceeding any of the following: a flow of twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons
per day (94,625 liters per day), a BOD of twenty five (25) pounds per day
(11.32 kilograms per day), or suspended solids of thirty five (35) pounds per
day (15.88 kilograms per day), or discharges waste containing toxic, hazardous
or injurious materials as defined in Appendix A (see Section
8-1-13 of this Chapter).
   OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT COSTS: The ratio of costs incurred by
the Sanitary District for operations, maintenance and replacement directly
related to the collection, treatment and disposal of industrial wastes, process
wastes, other wastes and sanitary wastes to the total tax levy of the Sanitary
District.
   OTHER WASTES: All decayed wood, sawdust, shavings, bark, lime, refuse,
ashes, garbage, offal, oil, chemicals and all other substances, except sewage
and industrial wastes.
   RESIDENTIAL USER: The nongovernmental nontax-exempt owner of any single- or
multi-family dwelling unit, including trailers and trailer parks.
   SANITARY WASTES: Water-carried human wastes from sanitary conveniences such
as toilets, washbowls, bathtubs and residential laundry facilities.
   SEWAGE: Water-carried human wastes or a combination of water- carried wastes
from residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial
establishments, together with such ground, surface, storm or other wastes as
may be present.
   SMALL NONRESIDENTIAL COMMERCIAL INDUSTRIAL USER: A nongovernmental user
engaged in nonresidential activities which discharges any waste not exceeding
any of the following: a flow of twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons per day
(94,625 liters per day), a BOD of twenty five (25) pounds per day (11.32
kilograms per day), or suspended solids of thirty five (35) pounds per day
(15.88 kilograms per day), and which does not discharge waste containing toxic,
hazardous or injurious materials as defined in Appendix A (see Section
8-1-14 of this Chapter).
   SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS: The Superintendent of Public Works of the
sanitary sewer system of Scott City, Kansas.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids which either float on the surface or are in
suspension in the waste discharge and which are removable by laboratory
filtering.
   TAX-EXEMPT USER: A user who pays no ad valorem taxes, or receives
substantial credits in paying such taxes, including, but not limited to, users
exempt from ad valorem taxes and all Federal, State and local government users,
but excluding publicly owned facilities performing local governmental functions
which discharge solely domestic waste.
   TOXIC WASTES: Wastes from industrial and commercial sources which are toxic,
hazardous or injurious to the sewage treatment process and which are identified
in Appendix A (see Section
8-1-14 of this Chapter).
   USER: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, trust, place of business
and place of use or any other entity which utilizes the services of the
Sanitary District for sewage collection, treatment and disposal.
   USER CHARGE (UC): The operations, maintenance and replacement costs incurred
by the Sanitary District to collect, treat and dispose of the sanitary wastes,
process wastes, industrial wastes and other wastes of the user. The user charge
of any user shall be directly proportional to its use of the District's sewage
treatment collection and disposal services when compared to the total
operations, maintenance and replacement costs incurred by the District in
providing the same services to all users in the District's jurisdiction.
   USER SURCHARGE: The balance owed by a user remaining after deducting from
the user charge, the operations, maintenance and replacement portion of the ad
valorem taxes paid by the user for the Sanitary District. (1983 Code §§ 10-102,
10-103; amd. Ord. 928, 3-6-1990; 1998 Code)
8-1-3: ENFORCEMENT:
The Sanitary District in the name of the City may sue to recover any and all
amounts due and owing as provided herein and take such other and further action
as may be necessary to recover all such sums due it hereunder, restrain any
unlawful discharge and otherwise compel compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 928, 3-6-1990)
8-1-4: APPLICATION:
Application to connect or utilize the city sewage collection and disposal
system shall be on such form as is on file in the city office. If an
application for connection is to property outside the corporate limits of the
city, then such connection shall not be made until such time that the owners of
such property consent in writing to the annexation thereof by the city pursuant
to Kansas Statutes Annotated 12-519 et seq. (Ord. 1077, 6-18-2007)
8-1-5: RATES:
The sewer rates established in this section shall apply to all users of the
City of Scott City’s sewer system billed to customers after March 1, 2024.
   A.   Definitions:
      1.   Residential property shall include all forms of residences,
apartment buildings, mobile homes and residential property units divided into
apartment dwellings.
      2.   Business 1 shall include all motels/hotels, schools, fast food
restaurants, restaurants, service stations, automotive repair, laundromats,
grocery stores, butchers, hospitals, rest homes, food production or processing
facilities.
      3.   Business 2 shall include all car washes.
      4.   Business 3 shall include all businesses not specified in the
definition of Business 1 or Business 2.
   B.   The monthly sewerage rates to be charged and collected for the use of
the services rendered by the sanitary sewer system of the City, and to all
customers or users of said sewerage system whose premises are connected or may
be hereafter connected directly or indirectly to the City’s sanitary sewerage
system, shall be as follows:
      1.   Residential property Units. For each residence, home, mobile home,
apartment, or other residential dwelling unit, sewer charges shall be $12.50
per month and $1.00 per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water per month. The
City shall use the average water usage for the months of December, January and
February, this average will be reassessed annually.
      2.   Business 1. The sewer rate for businesses defined as Business 1
shall be $25.50 per month and $1.00 per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water
per month. The City shall use the average water usage for the months of
December, January and February, this average will be reassessed annually.
      3.   Business 2. The sewer rate for businesses defined as Business 2
shall be $25.50 per month and $1.00 per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water
per month. The City shall use the average water usage for the months of July,
August and September, this average will be reassessed annually.
      4.   Business 3. The sewer rate for businesses defined as Business 3
shall be $12.50 per month and $1.00 per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water
per month for the metered use. The City shall use the average water usage for
the months of December, January and February, this average will be reassessed
annually.
   C.   The total amount charged for sewer connections that are outside the
corporate city limits shall be two (2) times the rates inside the corporate
city limits. (Ord. 1261, 2-20-2024)
8-1-6: BILLING PROCEDURE:
Sewer use fees shall be billed and carry due dates, grace periods and
penalties, as shall be fixed from time to time by resolution of the city
council. (1983 Code § 10-105)
8-1-7: UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE:
It shall be unlawful, except as herein provided, for any user to discharge
sewage, industrial waste or other wastes into the sewers or sewage works of the
sanitary district, or any sewer connected therein, unless such user shall pay
to the sanitary district its user charge (UC) as hereinafter provided. (Ord.
928, 3-6-1990)
8-1-8: USER CLASS DETERMINATION AND REPORTING:
   A.   Annual Evaluation: Annually, the user, except residential users, shall
make an evaluation of its waste discharge in accordance with the requirements
of this chapter and determine its user classification status. Such
determination shall be subject to verification by the sanitary district. (Ord.
928, 3-6-1990)
   B.   Submission: The user class determination shall be made by the user and
submitted to the superintendent of public works on statement forms to be
supplied by the sanitary district. Such user class determination shall be based
on the user's current operation and usage. Users which have not previously
filed their classification or which require a change in their classification
must submit their class determination forms within thirty (30) days of said
change in user classification status. (Ord. 928, 3-6-1990; amd. 1998 Code)
   C.   Small Nonresidential Commercial-Industrial Users: Small nonresidential
commercial-industrial users, after the Sanitary District has verified their
user class status, shall not file any further reports with the Sanitary
District unless requested for the current year, except as specified in Section
 8-1-9 of this Chapter.
   D.   Residential Users; Exempt From Reporting: Residential users who pay
real estate taxes shall, under no circumstances, file any reports with the
Sanitary District. (Ord. 928, 3-6-1990)
8-1-9: MEASUREMENT OF WASTES:
   A.   Required: Each "large commercial-industrial user", "small
nonresidential commercial-industrial user" and "tax-exempt user", as defined in
Section
 8-1-2 of this Chapter, shall submit periodic certified statements to the
Sanitary District, as provided herein, no more than twelve (12) times per year,
certifying the quantities and concentrations of its sewage, industrial wastes
and other wastes discharged into the sewers and sewage works of the Sanitary
District, or into any sewer connected therewith. The quantity of flow reported
shall be the quantity for each reporting period of operation and such reports
shall also show that no hazardous or toxic waste is being discharged. A
separate, certified statement must be filed for each facility, business
establishment or industrial plant. The total quantities and concentrations of
sewage, industrial waste and other wastes to be measured and certified by the
user shall be:
      1.   Liquid in gallons (gal).
      2.   Five (5) day BOD in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
      3.   Suspended solids in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
Should inspection by the Sanitary District reveal that any statement of
quantities or other information filed by a user does not accurately represent
actual conditions, the Sanitary District shall adjust the quantities and
information according to the Sanitary District's determinations.
   B.   Standards For Examination: Unless otherwise provided, all measurements,
tests, sampling and analysis required hereunder, shall be in accordance with
the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Waste
Water, published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Waterworks Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
      1.   Sampling Chamber:
         a.   In order to provide for accurate sampling and measurement of
industrial wastes, each commercial-industrial user and tax-exempt user shall
provide, on each of its outlet sewers, a large manhole or sampling chamber. The
sampling chamber should be located outside or near its plant boundary line
where feasible. The sampling chamber shall be available to the Sanitary
District to permit access. There shall be ample room in or near each sampling
chamber in order to accurately sample for analysis.
         b.   Such sampling chamber shall be constructed and in proper
operation within six (6) months of the effective date hereof.
         c.   Equipment and facilities of the Sanitary District placed in a
sampling chamber for the purpose of determining the quantity and/or strength of
the user's sewer discharge or verification of a user's reports with respect
thereto shall not be moved, tampered with, adjusted, relocated, removed or
otherwise damaged by the user. The City shall have the right to waive strict
compliance with the requirement of a sampling chamber, provided adequate
provisions are made by user in lieu thereof.
      2.   Liquid Quantity Measurements: Each sampling chamber wherein flow
proportioned sampling is or must be performed pursuant to the requirements of
this Chapter shall contain an accurate flow-measuring device, such as a flume
or weir. The City shall have the right to waive strict compliance with the
requirement of a measuring device, provided adequate provisions are made by
user in lieu thereof.
      3.   Sampling:
         a.   Minimum requirements for determining representative
concentrations shall include reevaluation at least once during each calendar
year period. The determination of representative concentrations shall be based
on samples that are taken hourly, refrigerated and composited daily to be
representative of the sewage, industrial waste or other wastes discharged by a
user during normal daily operations. Users who reevaluate their discharge once
during the calendar year shall apply the resulting representative
concentrations to the entire year. Reevaluations of discharges by a user when
made more than once per calendar year shall be reported and employed in a
manner which most reasonably characterizes the user's discharge.
         b.   Commercial-industrial and tax-exempt users whose flow exceeds an
annual average of two hundred thousand (200,000) gallons per day (757,000
liters per day) shall sample in proportion to flow for a period of consecutive
days constituting one normal work week.
         c.   Commercial-industrial and tax-exempt users whose flow is two
hundred thousand (200,000) gallons per day (757,000 liters per day) or less
shall sample for a period of at least two (2) consecutive working days. (Ord.
928, 36-1990)
         d.   Large commercial-industrial and tax-exempt users with wide
fluctuations in the quantity and/or concentrations of wastes shall have an
automatic flow measurement device and an automatic sampler, with samples taken
in proportion to flow, with analysis provided as required by the Sanitary
District to be representative of sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes
generated by a user during normal operations. The user or its authorized
representative shall certify in writing that samples were taken in accordance
with the foregoing requirements. The facilities for, and details of, frequency
of sampling, sampling chamber, metering device, sampling methods, and analysis
of samples shall be subject, at any time, to inspection and verification by the
Sanitary District. Plans for sampling chambers, with their locations shown on
site plan, shall be submitted for approval to the Superintendent of Public
Works. (Ord. 928, 3-6-1990; amd. 1998 Code)
8-1-10: BILLING RATES FOR COMPUTING USER CHARGE:
   A.   Specified: For the purpose of computing the user charge to be paid to
the Sanitary District by the commercial-industrial users and the tax-exempt
users, the following billing rates and factor shall be used by the Sanitary
District:
      1.   Commercial-Industrial Users:
         a.   Solids or liquid wastes, fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month.
         b.   User shall further pay any and all laboratory fees and testing
charges.
      2.   Nonresidential Commercial Users:
         a.   Solids or liquid wastes, fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month.
         b.   User shall further pay any and all laboratory fees and testing
charges.
      3.   Tax-Exempt Users:
         a.   Solids or liquid wastes, fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month.
         b.   User shall further pay any and all laboratory fees and testing
charges.
      4.   Operations, maintenance and replacement (OM&R) factor, 0.58. (Ord.
928, 3-6-1990)
   B.   Revision: The billing rates and the factor to be used in computing the
user charge are subject to revision. Revisions may be made not more than once a
year on recommendation of the Superintendent of Public Works and approval by
the City Council. (Ord. 928, 3-6-1990; amd. 1998 Code)
8-1-11: REPORTING, BILLING AND COLLECTION:
   A.   Calculating User Surcharge: The user charge of each large commercial-
industrial user and tax-exempt user and small nonresidential commercial user
shall be calculated by the user by the table set forth in Section 8-1-10 of
this Chapter.
   B.   Billing: The Sanitary District will bill tax-exempt users who elect to
pay on an annual basis pursuant to subsection F of this Section for the user
surcharge due. Any large commercial-industrial user which owes a user surcharge
shall remit the amount of the user surcharge simultaneously with the certified
statement. The Sanitary District shall also bill any user who is in any manner
delinquent in the performance of its obligations under this Chapter. The
billing frequency shall be not more than once per month, nor less than once per
year. All such bills shall be due and payable twenty (20) days after the date
thereof. The Sanitary District reserves the right to bill delinquent users
based on estimated quantities.
   C.   Interest: Interest at the rate of seventy-five one-hundredths percent
(0.75%) per month or for any fraction thereof shall be added to any overdue
payments. Such interest shall accrue from the date any remittance was due until
the same is paid. Interest shall not be charged upon previously assessed and
unpaid interest.
   D.   Reevaluation Of Remitted Amounts; Additional Bills: The Sanitary
District shall reevaluate any and all data and certified statements submitted
to it by a user pursuant to this Chapter, reevaluate its own data, call for
more data or develop additional data as it deems necessary and subsequently
bill the user for any deficiency indicated as due thereafter. The transmittal
of any bill to a user shall not stop the District from rebilling for any
deficiency determined to exist due to any subsequent reevaluation.
   E.   Residential Users: Users in this case shall under no circumstances be
billed by the Sanitary District, nor be liable to pay user surcharge under this
Section.
   F.   Tax-Exempt Users Reporting Option: Tax-exempt users whose sewer
discharge does not exceed:
      1.   A flow of twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons per day (94,625
liters per day); and
      2.   A BOD of twenty five (25) pounds per day (11.32 kilograms per day);
and (Ord. 928, 3-6-1990)
      3.   A suspended solids of thirty five (35) pounds per day (15.88
kilograms per day); and whose sewer discharge does not contain toxic, hazardous
or injurious materials as defined in Appendix A (see Section
8-1-14 of this Chapter), may petition the Sanitary District, in writing, to
report and pay its user surcharge annually on the basis of Sanitary District
approved estimates for flow or water meter readings, if available, BOD
concentrations at 119 mg/l and suspended solids concentrations at 168 mg/l.
Tax-exempt users which are not authorized to use this option shall report in
accordance with subsection
8-1-9B3 of this Chapter. A user's petition hereunder shall be submitted to the
Sanitary District with the filing of the annual certified statement. Such
petitions may be granted or denied upon such reasonable terms and conditions as
may be determined by the Sanitary District. (Ord. 928, 3-6-1990; amd. 1998
Code)
   G.   Adequate Measurement Facilities Option: Users presently without
adequate individual facilities for the measurement of wastes as required in
Section
 8-1-9 of this Chapter must, during the period of construction of such
facilities, file with the Sanitary District reasonable estimates of
concentrations of BOD and suspended solids until such time as adequate
facilities for measurement are installed; provided, that the following
requirements are met:
      1.   The user files its election annually by January 1 or the first
regular business day thereafter, of the current year; (Ord. 928, 3-6-1990)
      2.   The Superintendent of Public Works approves the estimated
concentrations;
      3.   Volume of flow used for reporting quantities must be based on
measured water use by the user;
      4.   The estimated concentration must be used throughout the year;
      5.   A date approved by the Superintendent of Public Works for the
completion of measurement and sampling facilities, as required in Section
8-1-9 of this Chapter, must be given; (Ord. 928, 3-6-1990; amd. 1998 Code)
      6.   Upon completion of the measurement and sampling facilities, a
sampling program, as described in Section
8-1-9 of this Chapter, must be instituted. The results of this sampling program
will be used to calculate the user charge liability during the period covered
by the election filing;
      7.   If the results of the sampling program (as mentioned in subsection
G6 of this Section) show that the user charge liability of the company is
greater than the amount estimated during the election filing period, the user
shall pay the Sanitary District the additional user charge surcharge within
ninety (90) days of the measurement and sampling facilities completion date. If
the results of the sampling program show that the user's user charge liability
is less than the amount estimated during the election filing period, the
Sanitary District will credit the overcharge to the company's future user
charge liability; and
      8.   If the user fails to pay the additional user charge liability as set
forth in the foregoing subsection G7 of this Section within the ninety (90) day
period, the Sanitary District will assess interest as described in subsection C
of this Section. (Ord. 928, 3-6-1990)
8-1-12: USER APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Appeal To Superintendent Of Public Works: In the event that any user
subject to this Chapter wishes to be heard regarding the amounts billed, its
user classification or any other matters relating thereto, such user shall make
a detailed written request to the Superintendent of Public Works to be heard,
specifying the reasons therefor. The Superintendent of Public Works shall
answer the request in writing and may schedule a meeting to meet with the user.
The Superintendent of Public Works shall attempt to resolve any bona fide
claims, disputes or inquiries which the user may have. All determinations made
by the Superintendent of Public Works shall be reduced to writing and a copy
thereof transmitted to the user.
   B.   Appeal To City Council: In the event the user does not concur with the
determination of the Superintendent of Public Works, he may petition the City
Council for a hearing. All such requests for a hearing by the City Council
shall be made within thirty (30) days after receipt of the determination by the
Superintendent of Public Works. The City Council, at their discretion, may
agree or decline to entertain such petitions for appeal. The hearing on such
petitions for appeal shall be heard by the City Council itself or by such
persons as it may designate. Where such an appeal hearing is conducted by the
designee of the City Council, the designated appeals officer shall submit a
written report of findings to the City Council with respect to such appeal. All
appeal hearings before the City Council shall be concluded as soon as
practicable. (Ord. 928, 3-6-1990; amd. 1998 Code)
8-1-13: PENALTY:
   A.   Failure To File Certified Statements: Should any user subject to user
charge fail to file its certified statements as required herein, the Sanitary
District will estimate the amount owed to the District and bill the user for
such amount owed, together with interest and penalties as provided herein. Said
bill shall be paid by the user within twenty (20) days after the mailing date
thereof.
   B.   Rate Of Penalty: The penalty for failing to file the certified
statements shall be at a rate of two and one-half percent (21/2%) per month or
for any fraction of a month thereof, of such unpaid amounts billed by the
District. Such penalty shall accrue from the date any remittance was due, until
paid. In addition to such penalty, interest shall also be assessed as provided
under subsection
8-1-11C of this Chapter, except that no interest shall accrue on any unpaid
penalty.
   C.   Failure To Perform And/Or Report: Failure of a user to perform and/or
report its annual reevaluation for representative concentrations as herein
required by subsections
8-1-8A and
8-1-9B3 of this Chapter shall subject each delinquent user to a penalty of ten
dollars ($10.00) per day for each sewage outfall that the Sanitary District
samples and performs chemical analysis on the effluents obtained therefrom due
to such default by a user.
   D.   Penalty Additional: This penalty shall be in addition to all other
penalties imposed by this Chapter.
   E.   Interest Not Accrued On Penalty: No interest shall accrue on the amount
of any penalty imposed hereunder.
   F.   Proration, Abatement Not Allowed: Penalties charged hereunder shall be
neither prorated, nor abated. (Ord. 928, 3-6-1990)
8-1-14: APPENDIX A; PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
No person shall discharge any of the following substances or conditions into
any public sanitary sewer in the City, into any sewer flowing into any public
sanitary sewer in the City, or into any sewer flowing into any wastewater plant
owned and operated by the City:
   A.   No person shall discharge any storm water or ground water, roof runoff,
subsurface drainage or any water from downspouts, yard drains, fountains and
ponds, sump pumps, septic tanks or lawn sprays into any sanitary sewer. Water
from swimming pools, boiler drains, blowoff pipes or cooling water from various
equipment may be discharged into the sanitary sewer by an indirect connection
where such discharge is cooled if required, and flows into the sanitary sewer
at a rate not to exceed the capacity of the sanitary sewer, provided the waste
does not contain materials or substances in suspension or solution in violation
of the terms of this Chapter; and provided further, that cooling water from any
air-conditioning unit or other cooling unit shall in no event exceed one-tenth
(1/10) of a gallon per minute per ton capacity of the air conditioner or
cooling unit. Dilution of any waste discharged into the sanitary sewer system
is prohibited whether accomplished by combining two (2) or more streams or
accomplished by adding other liquids solely for the purpose of diluting the
discharge.
   B.   No person shall discharge any of the following substances into any
public sanitary sewer:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) or sixty five degrees Centigrade (65°C).
      2.   Any water or waste which contains wax, greases, oil, plastic or
other substances that will solidify or become discernibly viscous at
temperatures between thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) and one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) or zero degrees Centigrade (0°C) and sixty five
degrees Centigrade (65°C).
      3.   Flammable or explosive liquids, solids or gases.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantity capable of causing
obstructions to the flow of sanitary sewers or of interfering with the
operation of the wastewater treatment works. Such substances include, but are
not limited to, acids, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, whole blood, manure, hair, animal wastes, parts
of bodies of animals, lime slurry, lime residue, paint residues, fiberglass or
bulk solids.
      5.   Any garbage, except properly shredded garbage.
      6.   Any noxious or malodorous substance which can form a gas, which,
singly or by interaction with other wastes in the sewage system, is capable of
causing objectionable odors or hazards to health, life or property or which can
by itself or in combination with other substances in the sewage system form
solids and concentrations exceeding the limits established in this Chapter or
any substance which creates any other condition harmful to the structure or
treatment processes of the wastewater treatment system.
   C.   No person shall discharge any substances exceeding the following
concentrations into the public sanitary sewers of the City:
      1.   Free or emulsified oil and grease exceeding an average of 100 mg/
l or eight hundred thirty (830) pounds per million gallons of either oil or
grease, or any combination of oil and grease, if it appears that the amounts of
oil and grease can do any of the following: deposit grease or oil on the
sanitary sewer lines in such a manner as to clog or interfere with the flow of
sewage, overload the grease handling equipment of the wastewater system, will
not be capable of being treated by the wastewater treatment processes of the
City or will have any harmful effect on the treatment process of the treatment
equipment due to the nature and quantity of the substances. (1983 Code § 10-
116)
      2.   Acids or alkalis having a pH value lower than 6.0 or higher than
9.0. (1983 Code § 10-116; amd. 1998 Code)
      3.   Salts of heavy metals in solution or suspension in concentrations
toxic to biological wastewater treatment processes or in concentrations
sufficient to adversely affect sludge digestion or any other biochemical,
biological or other wastewater treatment process or harmful to the biology of
the receiving stream to which the flow of the wastewater treatment facility
discharges.
      4.   Any other elements which will damage collection facilities or be
detrimental to the treatment processes or to the receiving stream to which the
effluent of the wastewater treatment facility discharges. In enforcing this
Chapter the volume of a particular industrial user shall be considered not only
by itself, but also in connection with other industrial discharges within the
same area of contributing to the same wastewater treatment plant. All State
laws and regulations relating to discharge of effluent into streams shall be
followed.
      5.   Cyanide or cyanogen compounds capable of liberating hydrocyanic gas
or acidification.
      6.   Radioactive materials defined as hazardous materials under Federal
laws and applicable regulations, including any substance required by the United
States Department of Transportation.
      7.   Any wastewaters containing phenols or other taste-producing
substances in such concentrations as to produce a detectable odor or taste in
the stream or other watercourse receiving the effluent from the treatment
facilities.
      8.   Materials which cause unusual concentrations of inert solids such as
fuller's earth or other solids such as sodium chloride, calcium chloride or
sodium sulphate. Materials which cause excessive discoloration. Materials which
cause unusual biochemical oxygen demand or an immediate oxygen demand.
Materials with a high hydrogen sulfide content. Materials with unusual flow and
concentrations.
      9.   Any toxic substances which are not amenable to treatment or
reduction by the wastewater treatment processes of the City.
   D.   Pretreatment requirements. Any industrial wastes which, without
pretreatment, will be harmful to the structure, process or operation of the
sewage treatment works, or detrimental to the quality of the effluent, the user
shall provide preliminary treatment or processing facilities, at the user's
expense, to render the wastes acceptable for admission to the public sanitary
sewers, by providing facilities at the user's expense, subject to inspection by
the Superintendent of Public Works. Industrial wastes which have excessive BOD
or excessive suspended solids in excess of normal domestic sewage shall be
pretreated to meet the requirements of normal domestic sewage; provided, that
such wastes may be accepted without pretreatment if the user can show that the
waste will not cause damage to the sanitary sewer collection system, the waste
will not impair the operation of the wastewater treatment process, the waste
will not damage any of the wastewater facilities, and the precise limits to be
accepted are covered by an agreement in writing between the City and the user.
(1983 Code § 10-116)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Regulations Applicable
8-2-2: Turning On Services; Authority
8-2-3: Application For Service; Fee
8-2-4: Plumbing Fixtures
8-2-5: Service Connection; Permit, Fee Required
8-2-6: Service Pipes
8-2-7: Meters
8-2-8: Rates
8-2-9: Delinquency
8-2-10: Construction Contractors
8-2-11: Theft Of Water; Charges Authorized
8-2-12: Prohibited Acts And Activities
8-2-13: Abandoned Connections
8-2-14: Service Not Guaranteed
8-2-15: Penalty
8-2-1: REGULATIONS APPLICABLE:
The furnishing of water to customers by the City through its waterworks system
shall be governed by the regulations set out in this chapter and by any "Rules
and Regulations for the Water System of Scott City, Kansas", promulgated by the
Public Works Department and approved and adopted by the City Council. Three (3)
copies of said "Rules and Regulations" shall be kept on file by the City Clerk
and shall be periodically updated to reflect current prices, wages and other
relevant factors. (Ord. 937, 5-6-1991)
8-2-2: TURNING ON SERVICES; AUTHORITY:
No water from the City water supply shall be turned on for service into any
premises by any person but the Superintendent of Public Works or some person
authorized by him to perform this service. No transfer from one name to another
shall be made without application being first made to the City Clerk. (Ord.
943, 11-4-1991)
8-2-3: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE; FEE:
Application to have water turned on shall be made in writing to the City Clerk
and shall contain an agreement by the applicant to abide by and accept all of
the provisions of this chapter as conditions governing the use of the City
water supply by the applicant. For property within the corporate limits of the
City a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be paid for turning on the water;
provided however, that if the applicant is transferring water service from one
location to another, the fee shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00). Also, in
instances where the applicant is transferring water service of a rental
property into the property owners name, the fee shall be twenty-five dollars
($25.00). For property outside the corporate limits of the City a fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be paid for turning on the water; provided
however, that if the applicant is transferring water service from one (1)
location to another, the fee shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 1223, 10-4-
2021)
8-2-4: PLUMBING FIXTURES:
   A.   Compliance Required: No water shall be turned on for service in
premises in which the plumbing does not comply with the ordinances of the City;
provided, that water may be turned on for construction work in unfinished
buildings, subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Building And Plumbing Codes: All plumbing fixtures and methods of
installation shall comply with the requirements of the Uniform Building and
Plumbing Codes, current editions, published by the International Conference of
Building Officials and the International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical
Officials, respectively; provided however, that if any of these provisions are
in conflict with the existing City ordinances, the City ordinances shall
prevail. The fees listed in section
8-2-3 of this chapter shall be waived when plumbing work requires water service
to be turned off and on. (Ord. 936, 1-7-1991)
8-2-5: SERVICE CONNECTION; PERMIT, FEE REQUIRED:
No connections with a water main shall be made without a permit being issued
and twenty four (24) hours' notice having been given to the Superintendent of
Public Works. All such connections shall be made and all such work done at the
expense of the applicant, who shall also furnish materials necessary for such
work; all such connections shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent and no connections shall be covered until the work has been
inspected by him and the building inspector. Applications for such connections
must be made to the City Clerk, and the appropriate permit obtained for each
connection. If an application for connection is to provide water service to
property outside the corporate limits of the City, then such connection shall
not be made until such time that the owners of such property consent in writing
to the annexation thereof by the City pursuant to Kansas Statutes Annotated 12-
519 et seq. (Ord. 1020, 7-17-2000, eff. 9-1-2000)
8-2-6: SERVICE PIPES:
   A.   Installation: All service pipes from the mains to the premises served
shall be installed by, and at the cost of, the owner of the property to be
served, or the applicant for the service. Such installation shall be under the
inspection of the building inspector.
   B.   Specifications: No service shall be installed unless it conforms to
specifications adopted by the City Council and approved thereby, a copy of
which specifications shall be kept on file by the City Clerk and shall be open
to inspection by any person interested.
   C.   Repairs: All repairs for service pipes and plumbing systems of
buildings shall be made by and at the expense of the owners of the premises
served. The City may, in case of an emergency, repair any service pipes and if
this is done, the cost of such repair work shall be repaid to the City by the
owner of the premises served.
   D.   Excavations: Excavations for installation of service pipes or repairing
the same shall be made in compliance with the ordinance provisions relating to
making excavations in streets; provided, that it shall be unlawful to place any
service pipe in the same excavation with, or directly over, any drainpipe or
sewer pipe. (Ord. 936, 1-7-1991)
8-2-7: METERS:
   A.   Required:
      1.   Furnished By City; Payment: All premises using the City water supply
must be equipped with an adequate water meter furnished by the City, but paid
for by the consumer; provided, that such water service may be supplied by the
City at a flat rate of charge until such meter may be installed.
      2.   Installation; Cost: Before any premises is occupied and new service
established, a water meter shall be installed therein as herein required or
application made for such water service at the flat rate charge until the meter
can be installed or no water shall be furnished such premises. In the event a
new meter set is required, the customer shall pay for the cost of materials and
installation of said meter. New meter costs shall be listed in the "Rules and
Regulations for the Water System of Scott City, Kansas", and shall be
periodically updated to reflect current prices and wages.
   B.   Size: No meter larger than one inch (1") service shall be installed
providing water service to any residential premises.
   C.   Location: Meters shall be installed in a location that will be easy to
access.
   D.   Reading: The Superintendent of Public Works shall read or cause to be
read every water meter used in the City at such times as are necessary that the
bills may be sent out at the proper time. (Ord. 1138, 4-15-2013)
8-2-8: RATES:
The water rates established in this section shall apply to all water usage
which is billed to customers after December 1, 2024.
   A.   The City shall establish water base rates for various meter sizes off a
rate determined by the Council.
   B.   Enumerated (Inside City Limits): All property within the corporate
limits of the City upon which any building has been or may hereafter be
erected, having a connection with any mains or pipes which may hereafter be
constructed and used in connection with the city water system, shall have a
monthly base rate based on the meter size(s) providing water utility service to
the property.
      1.   The monthly base rate for various meter sizes shall be:
Meter Size in Inches Base Rate
Meter Size in Inches Base Rate
5/8 to 3/4           $23.00
1                    $26.00
1½                  $32.00
2                    $37.00
3                    $57.00
4                    $57.00
6                    $57.00
 
      2.   To encourage conservation of, and efficient use of water all
connections, except those of political subdivisions of the State of Kansas
authorized to levy taxes upon tangible property, the water usage rate per month
shall be:
         a.   1 to 5,000 gallons - $2.20 per thousand gallons.
         b.   5,001 to 10,000 gallons - $3.50 per thousand gallons.
         c.   10,001 to 30,000 gallons - $3.75 per thousand gallons.
         d.   30,001 to 50,000 gallons - $4.00 per thousand gallons.
         e.   50,001 to 70,000 gallons - $4.50 per thousand gallons.
         f.   70,001 to 90,000 gallons - $5.00 per thousand gallons.
         g.   90,001 to 100,000 gallons - $5.50 per thousand gallons.
         h.   More than 100,000 gallons - $6.00 per thousand gallons.
   C.   Enumerated (Outside the City Limits): All property outside the
corporate limits of the City, upon which any building has been or may hereafter
be erected, having a connection with any mains or pipes which may hereafter be
constructed and used in connection with the city water system, shall have a
monthly base rate based on the meter size(s) providing water utility service to
the property.
      1.   The monthly base rate for various meter sizes shall be:
Meter Size in Inches Base Rate
Meter Size in Inches Base Rate
5/8 to 3/4           $46.00
1                    $52.00
1 ½                 $64.00
2                    $74.00
3                    $114.00
4                    $114.00
6                    $114.00
 
      2.   To encourage conservation of, and efficient use of water all
connections, except those of political subdivisions of the State of Kansas
authorized to levy taxes upon tangible property, the water usage rate per month
shall be:
         a.   1 to 5,000 gallons - $4.40 per thousand gallons.
         b.   5,001 to 10,000 gallons - $7.00 per thousand gallons.
         c.   10,001 to 30,000 gallons - $7.50 per thousand gallons.
         d.   30,001 to 50,000 gallons - $8.00 per thousand gallons.
         e.   50,001 to 70,000 gallons - $9.00 per thousand gallons.
         f.   70,001 to 90,000 gallons - $10.00 per thousand gallons.
         g.   90,001 to 100,000 gallons - $11.00 per thousand gallons.
         h.   More than 100,000 gallons - $12.00 per thousand gallons.
      D.   Bills: Bills for water used shall be dated and sent out at such
times as may be directed by the Mayor and City Council.
      E.   This chapter shall not limit the right of the city to negotiate
separate contracts for supplying water to its citizens and others, within and
outside the corporate city limits, on such terms as may be deemed advisable and
are approved by the governing body. (Ord. 1222, 9-20-2021; amd. Ord. 1260, 12-
4-2023; Ord. 1273, 11-18-2024)
8-2-9: DELINQUENCY:
   A.   Notice; Hearing:
      1.   Notice Required: If a utility bill has not been paid on or before
the due date as provided in this chapter, a delinquency and termination notice
shall be issued by the City Clerk within five (5) days after the delinquency
occurs and mailed to the customer at his or her last known address.
      2.   Content Of Notice: The notice shall state:
         a.   The amount due, plus a ten percent (10%) late fee;
         b.   That service will be terminated if the amount due is not paid
within five (5) days from the date of the notice unless the date on the notice
to pay the charges due shall be on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, in
which event such notice will give the consumer until one o'clock (1:00) P.M. of
the next business day in which to pay the charges;
         c.   That the customer has the right to a hearing before the
designated Hearing Officer;
         d.   That the request for a hearing must be in writing and filed with
the City Clerk no later than three (3) days prior to the date for termination
of service.
      3.   Notification Of Hearing: Upon receipt of a request for hearing, the
City Clerk shall advise the customer of the date, time and place of the
hearing, which shall be held within three (3) working days following receipt of
the request.
      4.   Finding: Following the hearing, if the Hearing Officer shall find
that service shall not be terminated, then notice of such finding shall be
presented to the City Clerk. If the officer finds that service should be
terminated, an order shall be issued terminating service five (5) days after
the date of the order. The customer shall be notified either in person or by
mailing a letter to his or her last known address by certified mail, return
receipt requested. However, if the order is made at the hearing in the presence
of the customer, then no further notice need be given. The Hearing Officer has
a right, for good cause, to grant an extension, not to exceed ten (10) days,
for termination of such service.
   B.   Fee For Turning Water On: The water supply may be shut off from any
premises for which the water bill remains unpaid as provided in subsection A2b
of this section. When shut off, water shall not be turned on except upon the
full payment of the unpaid bill and a fifty dollar ($50.00) reconnect fee
unless it is done after normal business hours in which event the reconnect fee
shall be seventy dollars ($70.00).
   C.   Additional Penalty: Any bill which remains unpaid thirty (30) days
after the service termination date provided in subsection A of this section
shall be assessed an additional late fee of twenty dollars ($20.00). (Ord.
1179, 3-20-2017)
8-2-10: CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTORS:
During the construction of any building and before any water service is
established as is herein provided, the contractor so constructing such building
may be permitted to use the City water supply by making application thereof,
and paying the flat fee prescribed by the City Council. (Ord. 936, 1-7-1991)
8-2-11: THEFT OF WATER; CHARGES AUTHORIZED:
Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted as prohibiting institution of
theft charges against any person stealing water from the City by bypassing a
meter, tampering with a meter or by any other means. (Ord. 936, 1-7-1991)
8-2-12: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Outdoor Watering: No person shall conduct outdoor watering, including,
but not limited to, the irrigation of lawns, shrubs, flowers, trees, gardens
and other outdoor vegetation between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon
and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. effective between May 1 and September 30 each
year, except:
      1.   Discharged water from a water cooled refrigerated air conditioner
system;
      2.   Newly seeded lawns for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days.
(Permit required from City Hall.); and
      3.   Merchants engaged in the seasonal retail sales of live plants
including, but not limited to, bedding plants, flowers, vegetables, fruits,
trees and shrubs.
   B.   Resale Of Water: No water shall be resold or distributed by the
recipient thereof from the City supply to any premises other than that for
which application has been made and the meter installed, except in case of
emergency.
   C.   Tampering: It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the
City to tamper with, alter or injure any part of the City waterworks or supply
system, or any meter.
   D.   Unlawful Connection: No person shall make any connection to the
waterworks system of the City without the permission of the City. (Ord. 1141,
6-3-2013)
8-2-13: ABANDONED CONNECTIONS:
Whenever any connection to the waterworks system is abandoned because the
building to which the water connection is made has been abandoned, destroyed or
removed, the Superintendent of Public Works may remove the meter and any pipe
or connections in the public right-of-way or easement, and cap, plug or
otherwise seal the pipe or main. Before taking any such steps, the
Superintendent of Public Works shall notify the owner of the real estate if the
owner's name and address is known, and shall notify the person shown on the
real estate tax records as having paid taxes on the property the last time
taxes were paid. Such notice shall be made by mail, at least thirty (30) days
before any action is taken under this section. If water is leaking, the
Superintendent of Public Works shall take immediate action, and send the
notices within three (3) working days of the time action was taken. (Ord. 936,
1-7-1991; amd. 1998 Code)
8-2-14: SERVICE NOT GUARANTEED:
The City does not guarantee the delivery of water through any of its mains and
connecting services at any time, except only when its mains, pumping machinery
and power service connections are in good working order, and the supply of
water is sufficient for the usual demand of its consumers. (Ord. 936, 1-7-1991)
8-2-15: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1998 Code)
ARTICLE A. WATER SUPPLY WATCH, WARNING OR EMERGENCY
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Purpose
8-2A-2: Definitions
8-2A-3: Classes Of Water Uses
8-2A-4: Water Conservation Program
8-2A-5: Voluntary Conservation Measures
8-2A-6: Mandatory Conservation Measures
8-2A-7: Emergency Water Rates
8-2A-8: Regulations
8-2A-9: Violations, Disconnections And Penalties
8-2A-10: Emergency Termination
8-2A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide for a progressive water supply
conservation program, including the declaration of a water supply watch,
warning or emergency and the implementation of voluntary and mandatory water
conservation measures throughout the city in the event such a watch, warning or
emergency is declared by the governing body of the city. (Ord. 1155, 7-21-2014)
8-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CUSTOMER: The customer of record using water for any purpose from the city's
water distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made or, in
the case of coin sales, a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
   WASTE OF WATER: Includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   Permitting water to escape down a street, roadway or other surface
intended for vehicle driving purposes, and/or any gutter, ditch, or other
surface drain; or
   B.   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water due to defective
plumbing.
   WATER: Water available to the city of Scott City for treatment by virtue of
the city's water rights, water supply, water supply contracts or any treated
water introduced by the city into its water distribution system, including
water offered for sale at any coin operated site. (Ord. 1155, 7-21-2014)
8-2A-3: CLASSES OF WATER USES:
The following classes of uses of water are established for the purposes of this
article:
   A.   Class 1: Water used for outdoor watering; either public or private, for
gardens, lawns, trees, shrubs, plants, parks, golf courses, playing fields,
swimming pools or other recreational areas; or the washing of motor vehicles,
boats, trailers, or the exterior of any building or structure.
   B.   Class 2: Water used for any commercial, agricultural or industrial
purposes, except water actually necessary to maintain the health and personal
hygiene of bona fide employees of such businesses or interests while such
employees are engaged in the performance of their duties at their place of
employment.
   C.   Class 3: Domestic usage, other than that which would be included in
either class 1 or 2.
   D.   Class 4: Water necessary only to sustain human life and the lives of
domestic livestock pets and maintain standards of hygiene and sanitation. (Ord.
1155, 7-21-2014)
8-2A-4: WATER CONSERVATION PROGRAM:
In the event that the governing body of the city or the city's designated
official determines that the city's water supply may be subject to a shortage
in supply or the governing body of the city determines there is need for
conservation of the city's water resources for any reason, the city may begin
the progressive three (3) stage water conservation program by declaring a water
watch as described in subsection A of this section or, in times of need and/or
duress, the governing body of the city may choose to declare any section of the
program described in this section in effect at any time:
   A.   Stage 1: Declaration Of Water Watch: Whenever the governing body of the
city finds that conditions indicate that the probability of a drought or some
other condition causing a major water supply shortage is rising, it shall be
empowered to declare, by resolution, that a water watch exists and that it
shall take steps to inform the public and ask for voluntary reductions in water
use. Such a watch shall be deemed to continue until it is declared by
resolution of the governing body to have ended. The resolutions declaring the
existence and end of a water watch shall be effective upon their publication in
the official city newspaper.
   B.   Stage 2: Declaration Of Water Warning: Whenever the governing body of
the city finds that drought conditions or some other condition causing a major
water supply shortage is present and supplies are starting to decline, it shall
be empowered to declare by resolution that a water warning exists and that it
will recommend restrictions on nonessential uses during the period of warning.
Such a warning shall be deemed to continue until it is declared by resolution
of the governing body to have ended. The resolutions declaring the beginning
and ending of the water warning shall be effective upon their publication in
the official city newspaper. Pursuant to the approval of the chief engineer,
division of water resources, Kansas department of agriculture, the recommended
restrictions on nonessential uses may be extended to private wells within the
city limits.
   C.   Stage 3: Declaration Of Water Emergency: Whenever the governing body of
the city finds that an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water supply
needed for essential uses, it shall be empowered to declare by resolution that
a water supply emergency exists and that it will impose mandatory restrictions
on water use during the period of the emergency. Such an emergency shall be
deemed to continue until it is declared by resolution of the governing body to
have ended. The resolutions declaring the existence and end of a water supply
emergency shall be effective upon their publication in the official city
newspaper. Pursuant to the approval of the chief engineer, division of water
resources, Kansas department of agriculture, the mandatory restrictions on
water use may be extended to private wells within the city limits. (Ord. 1155,
7-21-2014)
8-2A-5: VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION MEASURES:
Upon the declaration of a water watch or water warning as provided in
subsection
8-2A-4A or B of this article, the mayor (or public works superintendent) is
authorized to call on all water consumers to employ voluntary water
conservation measures to limit or eliminate nonessential water uses including,
but not limited to, limitations on the following uses:
   A.   Class 1 uses of water.
   B.   Waste of water. (Ord. 1155, 7-21-2014)
8-2A-6: MANDATORY CONSERVATION MEASURES:
Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in subsection
8-2A-4C of this article, the mayor (or the public works superintendent or
authorized city official) is also authorized to implement certain mandatory
water conservation measures, including, but not limited to, the following
conservation measures:
   A.   Suspension of new connections to the city's water distribution system,
except connections of fire hydrants and those made pursuant to agreements
entered into by the city prior to the effective date of the declaration of the
emergency;
   B.   Restrictions on the uses of water in one or more classes of water use
as described in section
8-2A-3 of this article, wholly or in part;
   C.   Restrictions on the sales of water at coin operated facilities or
sites;
   D.   The imposition of water rationing based on any reasonable formula
including, but not limited to, the percentage of normal use and per capita or
per consumer restrictions;
   E.   Complete or partial bans on the waste of water; and
   F.   Any combination of the measures in subsections A through E of this
section as the governing body of the city or authorized city official may deem
appropriate and/or necessary. (Ord. 1155, 7-21-2014)
8-2A-7: EMERGENCY WATER RATES:
Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in subsection
 8-2A-4C of this article, the governing body of the city shall have the power
to adopt emergency water rates by ordinance designed to conserve water
supplies. Such emergency rates may provide for, but are not limited to:
   A.   Higher charges for increasing usage per unit of use (increasing block
rates);
   B.   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit rate); or
   C.   Extra charges in excess of a specified level of water use (excess
demand surcharge). (Ord. 1155, 7-21-2014)
8-2A-8: REGULATIONS:
During the effective period of any water supply emergency as provided for in
subsection
8-2A-4C of this article, the mayor (or city manager or public works
superintendent or other authorized city official) is empowered to promulgate
such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this
article, any water supply emergency resolution, or emergency water rate
ordinance. Such regulations shall be subject to the approval of the governing
body at its next regular or special meeting. (Ord. 1155, 7-21-2014)
8-2A-9: VIOLATIONS, DISCONNECTIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   If the mayor, public works superintendent, or other authorized city
official or officials charged with implementation and enforcement of this
article or a water supply emergency resolution learn of any violation of any
water use restrictions imposed pursuant to section
8-2A-6 or
8-2A-8 of this article, a written notice of the violation shall be affixed to
the property where the violation occurred and the customer of record and/or any
other person known to the city to be responsible for the violation and/or the
correction of said violation shall be provided with either actual or mailed
notice. Said notice shall describe the violation(s) and order that the noted
violation(s) be corrected, cured or abated immediately or within such specified
time as the city determines is reasonable for such correction, cure or
abatement under the circumstances. In the event the order is not cured within
the time period given in the notice, the city may terminate water service to
the customer subject to the following procedures:
      1.   The city shall give the customer notice by mail or actual notice
that water service will be discontinued within a specified time due to the
violation(s) and that the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the
termination by requesting a hearing scheduled before the city governing body or
a city official designated as a hearing officer by the city governing body;
      2.   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, the customer shall be given a full opportunity to be heard by the
city governing body or the city official designated as a hearing officer by the
city governing body before termination is ordered; and
      3.   The city governing body or the city official designated as a hearing
officer by the city governing body shall make findings of fact and order
whether service should continue or be terminated.
   B.   A fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be paid for the reconnection of
any water service terminated pursuant to subsection A of this section. In the
event of subsequent violations, the reconnection fee shall be one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for the second reconnection and one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for any subsequent additional reconnections within a two (2) year period.
   C.   Violations of this article shall be a municipal offense and may be
prosecuted in municipal court. Any person so charged and found guilty in
municipal court of violating the provisions of this article shall be guilty of
a municipal offense. Each calendar day in which a violation is observed shall
constitute a separate offense. The penalty for an initial violation shall be a
mandatory fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00). In addition, such customer may
be required by the court to serve a definite term of confinement in the city or
county jail which shall be fixed by the court and which shall not exceed five
(5) days. The penalty for a second or subsequent conviction shall be a
mandatory fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00). In addition, such customer
shall serve a definite term of confinement in the city or county jail which
shall be fixed by the court and which shall not exceed ten (10) days. (Ord.
1155, 7-21-2014)
8-2A-10: EMERGENCY TERMINATION:
Nothing in this article shall limit the ability of any properly authorized city
official from terminating the supply of water to any or all customers upon the
determination of such city official that emergency termination of water service
is required to protect the health and safety of the public or for any other
emergency as required or authorized by ordinance or as deemed a necessity of
the city by such city official or the governing body of the city. (Ord. 1155,
7-21-2014)
CHAPTER 3
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-3-1: Applicability
8-3-2: Protective Backflow Devices Required
8-3-3: Devices, Assemblies And Methods
8-3-4: General Requirements
8-3-5: Specific Requirements
8-3-6: Right Of Entry
8-3-7: Contamination; Delivery Refused, Terminate Service
8-3-8: Appendix A
8-3-1: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Compliance: Cross-connection control shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Approved Device Or Assembly: No person shall install any water operated
equipment or mechanism, or use any water treating chemical or substance, if it
is found that such equipment, mechanism, chemical or substance may cause
pollution or contamination of the domestic water supply. Such equipment or
mechanism may be permitted only when equipped with an approved backflow
prevention device or assembly. (Ord. 938, 6-3-1991)
   C.   Approval Of Device Or Assembly: Before any device or assembly is
installed for the prevention of backflow, it shall have first been approved by
the Superintendent of Public Works. Devices or assemblies shall be tested for
conformity with recognized standards or other standards acceptable to the
Superintendent of Public Works which are consistent with the intent of this
Code.
   D.   Maintenance; Inspection: All devices or assemblies installed in a
potable water supply system for protection against backflow shall be maintained
in good working condition by the person having control of such devices or
assemblies. The Superintendent of Public Works or other department having
jurisdiction may inspect such devices or assemblies and, if found to be
defective or inoperative, shall require the repair or replacement thereof. No
device or assembly shall be removed from use or relocated, or other device or
assembly substituted, without the approval of the Superintendent of Public
Works. (Ord. 938, 6-3-1991; amd. 1998 Code)
8-3-2: PROTECTIVE BACKFLOW DEVICES REQUIRED:
Approved devices to protect against backflow or back siphonage shall be
installed at all fixtures and equipment where backflow and/or back siphonage
may occur and where there is a hazard to the potable water supply, in that
polluted water or other contaminated materials may enter into the public water
supply. Any situation in which a heavy withdrawal of water, such as a sudden
break in the main or water being used from a fire hydrant, may cause a negative
pressure to develop which could lead to back siphonage of polluted water into
the system shall be improper and must be protected by approved backflow
preventive valves and systems as determined by the Superintendent of Public
Works. (Ord. 936, 1-7-1991; amd. 1998 Code)
8-3-3: DEVICES, ASSEMBLIES AND METHODS:
The minimum air gap to afford backflow protection shall be in accordance with
the following chart:
   A.   Atmospheric Vacuum Breaker (AVB): An atmospheric vacuum breaker
consists of a body, a checking member and an atmospheric opening.
   B.   Double Check Valve Backflow Prevention Assembly (DC): A double check
valve backflow prevention assembly consists of two (2) independently acting
internally loaded check valves, four (4) properly located test cocks and two
(2) isolation valves.
   C.   Pressure Vacuum Breaker Backflow Prevention Assembly (PVB): A pressure
vacuum breaker backflow prevention assembly consists of a loaded air inlet
valve, an internally loaded check valve, two (2) properly located test cocks
and two (2) isolation valves.
   D.   Reduced Pressure Principle Backflow Prevention Assembly (RP): A reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly consists of two (2)
independently acting internally loaded check valves, a differential pressure
relief valve, four (4) properly located test cocks and two (2) isolation
valves. (Ord. 938, 6-3-1991)
8-3-4: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Conform To Standards: All assemblies shall conform to listed standards
and be acceptable to the Superintendent of Public Works having jurisdiction
over the selection and installation of backflow prevention assemblies.
   B.   Testing: The premises owner or responsible person shall have the
backflow prevention assembly tested by a certified backflow tester at the time
of installation, repair or relocation and at least on an annual schedule
thereafter or more often when required by the Superintendent of Public Works.
   C.   Access And Clearance: Access and clearance shall be provided for the
required testing, maintenance and repair. Access and clearance shall require a
minimum of one foot (1') (305 mm) between the lowest portion of the assembly
and grade, floor or platform. Installations elevated more than five feet (5')
(1.52 m) above the floor or grade shall be provided with a permanent platform
capable of supporting a tester or maintenance person. (See Appendix A at
Section
8-3-8 of this Chapter.)
   D.   Direct Connections: Direct connections between potable water piping and
sewer connected wastes shall not exist under any condition with or without
backflow protection. Where potable water is discharged to the drainage system,
it shall be by means of an approved air gap of two (2) pipe diameters of the
supply inlet, but in no case shall the gap be less than one inch (1") (25 mm).
Connection may be made to the inlet side of a trap; provided, that an approved
atmospheric vacuum breaker is installed not less than six inches (6") (152.4
mm) above the flood level rim of such trapped fixture, so that at no time will
any such device be subjected to any back pressure.
   E.   Hot Water: Backflow preventers for hot water over one hundred ten
degrees Fahrenheit (110°F) (43.3 degrees C) shall be a listed type designated
to operate at temperatures of one hundred ten degrees Fahrenheit (110°F) (43.3
degrees C) or more without rendering any portion of the assembly inoperative.
   F.   Integrated Preventers: Fixtures, appliances or appurtenances with
integral backflow preventers or integral air gaps manufactured as a unit shall
be installed in accordance with their listing requirements.
   G.   Cold Climates: In cold climate areas, backflow assemblies and devices
shall be protected from freezing by a method acceptable to the Superintendent
of Public Works. (Ord. 938, 6-3-1991; amd. 1998 Code)
8-3-5: SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Vacuum Breaker: Water closet and urinal flushometer valves shall be
equipped with a listed atmospheric vacuum breaker. The vacuum breaker shall be
installed on the discharge side of the flushometer valve with the critical
level at least six inches (6") (152.4 mm) or the distance according to its
listing above the overflow rim of a water closet bowl or the highest part of a
urinal. (Ord. 938, 6-3-1991; amd. 1998 Code)
   B.   Ballcock: Water closet and urinal tanks shall be equipped with a
listing ballcock. The ballcock shall be installed with the critical level at
least one inch (1") (25 mm) above the full opening of the overflow pipe. In
cases where the ballcock has no hush tube, the bottom of the water supply inlet
shall be installed one inch (1") (25 mm) above the full opening of the overflow
pipe. Water closets having the flush valve seat less than one inch (1") (25 mm)
above the flood level rim of the closet bowl shall have the ballcock installed
in a separate and isolated compartment of the tank, or shall be provided with a
sheathed ballcock, or other equivalent protection.
   C.   Water Closet Flushometer Tanks: Water closet flushometer tanks shall be
protected against backflow by an approved backflow prevention assembly, device
or method.
   D.   Heat Exchangers: Heat exchangers and other assemblies or methods of
construction using potable water shall be of listed construction and materials.
Potable water shall be separated from the fluids or gasses by a minimum of two
(2) separate walls, with a positive, vented leak detection path. The sections
in contact with potable water shall be of material and weights suitable for
potable water as set forth in this Chapter.
   E.   Inlets To Tanks, Vats, Sumps, Swimming Pools: Inlets to tanks, vats,
sumps, swimming pools and other receptors when protected by a listed
atmospheric vacuum breaker shall have such atmospheric breaker installed on the
discharge side of the last valve with the critical level not less than six
inches (6") (152.4 mm) or in accordance with its listing above the flood level
rim of such equipment, and all downstream piping. Water supply inlets not
protected by atmospheric vacuum breakers shall be protected by an approved air
gap. Where atmospheric vacuum breakers or air gaps are not installed, other
backflow preventers suitable for the possible contamination or pollution may be
installed in accordance with the requirements for that type of device or
assembly as set forth in this Chapter.
   F.   Lawn Sprinkling Systems: Lawn sprinkling systems shall be equipped with
listed atmospheric vacuum breakers installed on the discharge side of each of
the last shutoff valves. Where atmospheric vacuum breakers cannot be installed
because of piping elevation or valves, other listed backflow preventers shall
be installed in accordance with their requirements as set forth in this
Chapter.
   G.   Potable Water Outlets: Potable water outlets with hose attachments
other than water heater drains and clothes washer connections shall be
protected by a listed nonremovable hose bib-type backflow preventer or by a
listed atmospheric vacuum breaker installed at least six inches (6") (152.4 mm)
above the highest point of usage and located on the discharge side of the last
valve. In climates where freezing temperatures occur, a listed self-draining
frost-proof hose bib with an integral backflow preventer shall be used.
   H.   Water Cooled Equipment: Water cooled compressors, degreasers or any
other water cooled equipment shall be protected by a listed backflow preventer
installed in accordance with the requirements of this Chapter.
Note: Some water cooled equipment may produce back pressure and shall be
equipped with the appropriate protection. (Ord. 938, 6-3-1991)
   I.   Water Inlets To Water Supplied Aspirators: Water inlets to water
supplied aspirators shall be equipped with a listed atmospheric vacuum breaker
mounted at least six inches (6") (152.4 mm) above the aspirator unit or
equipped with a listed backflow preventer installed in accordance with its
listing requirements and this Chapter. The discharge shall drain through an air
gap. When using the tail piece of a fixture to receive the discharge of an
aspirator, the air gap shall be located above the flood level rim of the
fixture.
   J.   Potable Water Makeup Connections: Potable water makeup connections to
steam or hot water boilers shall be provided with a listed backflow protection
assembly.
   K.   Nonpotable Water Piping: In cases where it is impractical to correct
individual cross-connections on the domestic water line, the line supplying
such outlets shall be considered a nonpotable water line. No drinking or
domestic water outlets shall be connected to the nonpotable water line.
Whenever possible, all portions of the nonpotable water line shall be exposed
and all exposed portions shall be properly identified in a manner satisfactory
to the Superintendent of Public Works. Each outlet on the nonpotable water line
which may be used for drinking or domestic purposes shall be posted: "Danger -
Unsafe Water".
   L.   Potable Water Supply To Carbonators: Potable water supply to
carbonators shall be protected by backflow protection as approved by the
Superintendent of Public Works and installed per the requirements of this
Chapter.
   M.   Location Of Backflow Preventers: Backflow preventers shall not be
located in any area containing fumes that are toxic, poisonous or corrosive.
(Ord. 938, 6-3-1991; amd. 1998 Code)
8-3-6: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The Superintendent of Public Works or other designee of the City Council shall
have the right of entry into any building or premises in the City as frequently
as necessary in his or her judgment in order to ensure that plumbing has been
installed in accordance with the laws of the City so as to prevent the
possibility of pollution of the water supply of the City. (Ord. 936, 1-7-1991;
amd. 1998 Code)
8-3-7: CONTAMINATION; DELIVERY REFUSED, TERMINATE SERVICE:
Pursuant to the City's constitutional home rule authority and Kansas Statutes
Annotated section 65-163a, the City, by its Superintendent of Public Works, may
refuse to deliver water through pipes and mains to any premises where a
condition exists which might lead to the contamination of the public water
system and it may continue to refuse the delivery of water to the premises
until that condition is remedied. In addition, the Superintendent of Public
Works may terminate water service to any property where the cross-connections
or back siphonage condition creates, in the judgment of the Superintendent of
Public Works, an emergency danger of contamination to the public water supply.
(Ord. 936, 1-7-1991; amd. 1998 Code)
8-3-8: APPENDIX A:
 
Backflow Assemblies, Devices And Methods
           Degree Of Hazard                                      
Device,     Pollution               Contamination
Assembly Or (Low Hazard)            (High Hazard)                Installation2,
Method1     Back      Back Pressure Back Siphonage Back Pressure 3
            Siphonage
Backflow Assemblies, Devices And Methods
            Degree Of Hazard                                 
Device,      Pollution               Contamination
Assembly Or  (Low Hazard)            (High Hazard)           Installation2,
Method1      Back      Back Pressure Back      Back Pressure 3
             Siphonage               Siphonage
Air gap      X                       X                       See table in
                                                             this Chapter.
                                                             Upright
                                                             position. No
                                                             valves
                                                             downstream.
Atmospheric                                                  Minimum of 6"
vacuum       X                       X                       or listed
breaker                                                      distance above
                                                             all downstream
                                                             piping and
                                                             flood level
                                                             rim of
                                                             receptor4.
                                                             Horizontal,
                                                             unless
                                                             otherwise
                                                             listed.
                                                             Requires 1'
                                                             minimum
Double check                                                 clearance at
valve        X         X                                     bottom for
backflow                                                     maintenance.
preventer                                                    May need
                                                             platform/
                                                             ladder for
                                                             test and
                                                             repair. Does
                                                             not discharge
                                                             water.
                                                             Upright
                                                             position. May
                                                             have valves
                                                             downstream.
                                                             Minimum of 12"
Pressure                                                     above all
vacuum       X                       X                       downstream
breaker                                                      piping and
                                                             flood level
                                                             rim of
                                                             receptor. May
                                                             discharge
                                                             water.
                                                             Horizontal
                                                             unless
                                                             otherwise
                                                             listed.
                                                             Requires 1'
Reduced                                                      minimum
pressure                                                     clearance at
principle    X         X             X         X             bottom for
backflow                                                     maintenance.
preventer                                                    May need
                                                             platform/
                                                             ladder for
                                                             test and
                                                             repair. May
                                                             discharge
                                                             water.
1 See description of devices and assemblies in this Chapter.
2 Installation in pit or vault requires previous approval by the
Superintendent of Public Works.
3 Refer to general and specific requirements for installation.
4 Not to be subjected to operating pressure for more than 12 hours in any
24-hour period.
 
 
Minimum Air Gaps For Water Distribution4
Fixtures                    When not affected by side When affected by side
                            walls1 Inches (mm)        walls2 Inches (mm)
Lavatories and other
fixtures with effective     1" (25 mm)                11/2" (38 mm)
openings3 not greater than
1/2" (13 mm) in diameter
Sinks, laundry trays, goose
neck bath faucets and other
fixtures with effective     11/2" (38 mm)             21/4" (57 mm)
openings3 not greater than
3/4" (19 mm) in diameter
Over rim bath fillers and
other fixtures with
effective openings3 not     2" (51 mm)                3" (76 mm)
greater than 1" (25 mm) in
diameter
Effective openings3 greater 2 times diameter of       3 times diameter of
than 1" (25 mm) in diameter effective opening         effective opening
1 Side walls, ribs or similar obstructions do not affect air gaps when spaced
from the inside edge of the spout opening a distance greater than 3 times the
diameter of the effective opening for a single wall or a distance greater
than 4 times the effective opening for 2 intersecting walls.
 
2 Vertical walls, ribs or similar obstructions extending from the water
surface to or above the horizontal plane of the spout opening other than
specified in Note 1 above. The effect of 3 or more such vertical walls or
ribs has not been determined. In such cases, the air gap shall be measured
from the top of the wall.
 
3 The effective opening shall be the minimum cross-sectional area at the seat
of the control valve or the supply pipe or tubing which feeds the device or
outlet. If 2 or more lines supply one outlet, the effective opening shall be
the sum of the cross-sectional areas of the individual supply lines or the
area of the single outlet, whichever is smaller.
 
4 Air gaps less than 1" (25 mm) shall only be approved as a permanent part of
a listed assembly that has been tested under actual backflow conditions with
vacuums of from 1 to 25" of mercury.
 
(Ord. 938, 6-3-1991; amd. 1998 Code)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
Building Code; Regulations   1
Electrical Code   2
Plumbing Code   3
Mechanical Code   4
Administrative Code   5
Fire Code   6
Territorial Applicability Of Building Regulations And Codes   7
Residential Code   8
Manufactured Home Requirements     9
Minimum Standard For Housing and Premises Code   10
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE; REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Definitions
9-1-2: International Building Code Incorporated
9-1-3: Additional Provisions
9-1-4: Building Official; Powers; Duties
9-1-5: Building Inspector; Appointment
9-1-6: Building Inspector; Duties
9-1-7: Building Inspector; Powers
9-1-8: Building Inspector; Right Of Entry
9-1-9: Clarification; Modification
9-1-10: Building Permit Required; Application; Approval
9-1-11: Building Permit; Application Information Required
9-1-12: Building Permit; Plans And Specifications
9-1-13: Building Permit; Fees
9-1-14: Building Permit; Posting
9-1-15: Certificate Of Approval
9-1-16: Inspections Of Building; Layout Of Building; Foundations And Footings;
Notice To Inspector
9-1-17: Request For Inspection
9-1-18: Builder Or Building Contractor Defined
9-1-19: Builder’s Or Building Contractor’s License Required; Building Permits;
Unlawful Acts
9-1-20: Builder’s Or Building Contractor’s License; Application; Granting
9-1-21: Builder’s Or Building Contractor’s License; License Fees; Conditions;
Renewal; Unlawful Acts
9-1-22: Insurance
9-1-23: License Suspension; Revocation; Appeal; Unlawful Acts
9-1-24: Work By Property Owners
9-1-25: Liability
9-1-26: Severability
9-1-27: Demolition Of Structure; Permit Required
9-1-28: Demolition Of Structure; Application For Permit
9-1-29: Demolition Of Structure; Insurance Required
9-1-30: Demolition Of Structure; Fee
9-1-31: Demolition Of Structure; Duties Of Building Official
9-1-32: Moving Structure; Permit Required
9-1-33: Moving Structure; Application For Permit
9-1-34: Moving Structure; Bond, Insurance Required
9-1-35: Moving Structure; Fee
9-1-36: Route; Duties Of Building Official
9-1-37: Notice To Owners
9-1-38: Duty Of Owners
9-1-39: Interfering With Poles; Wires
9-1-40: Display Of Lanterns
9-1-41: Flatwork
9-1-42: Penalty
9-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the words and phrases herein defined shall have the
following meanings unless the context otherwise requires:
   A.   Whenever the word municipality is used in the building code, it shall
be held to mean the City of Scott City, Kansas;
   B.   Whenever the term corporation counsel is used in the building code, it
shall be held to mean the city attorney of the City of Scott City;
   C.   Whenever the term building official is used in the building code, it
shall be held to mean the city administrator for the City of Scott City or his
or her authorized designee. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-2: INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE INCORPORATED:
There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference, for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal,
demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings
and structures, the International Building Code, 2006 Edition, as recommended
by the International Conference of Building Officials, such code being made as
a part of the ordinances and code of the city as if the same had been set out
in full herein, all as authorized and in the manner prescribed by Kansas
Statutes Annotated sections 12-3009 through 12-3012 including any amendments
thereto. One copy of the International Building Code, 2006 Edition, shall be
marked or stamped "Official Copy as Incorporated by the Code of the City of
Scott City," and shall be filed with the city clerk to be open to inspection
and available to the public at all reasonable hours of business. (Ord. 1228,
12-20-2021)
9-1-3: ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS:
The following sections are in addition to the provisions of the standard code
incorporated by reference in section
9-1-2. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-4: BUILDING OFFICIAL; POWERS; DUTIES:
   A.   This and other ordinances of the city relating generally to building
and structures shall be administered and enforced by the city administrator.
The city administrator shall act as chief building official and may assume the
responsibilities of or with the consent and approval of the governing body
appoint a building inspector and such other assistants as may be advisable for
the issuance of building permits and the inspection of building work.
   B.   The city administrator shall prepare such application, permit,
inspection and record forms as may be required for the purposes of this
chapter. The city administrator may make and promulgate the necessary rules and
regulations to obtain conformity with this chapter pertaining to the making of
applications for building permits, issuing of building permits and inspecting
of buildings and building works. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-5: BUILDING INSPECTOR; APPOINTMENT:
The city administrator may assume the responsibilities of or appoint some
qualified officer or employee of the city to be and perform the duties of
building inspector as may be required, subject to the consent and approval of
the governing body. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-6: BUILDING INSPECTOR; DUTIES:
The building inspector shall have the following duties:
   A.   To enforce all regulations relating to construction, alteration,
repair, removal and demolition of building and structures;
   B.   May permit, with the approval of the governing body, on the basis of
duly authenticated reports from recognized sources, the use of new materials or
modes of construction, not provided for in this chapter, and may, for the
purpose of carrying out the intent of this chapter adopt an accepted standard
of material or workmanlike practices of federal or state bureaus, national,
technical organizations or fire underwriters;
   C.   To examine all buildings in the process of erection, construction,
alteration or relocation in the city for the purpose of determining whether the
work is in compliance with the permit given and in compliance with the
regulations of the city pertaining to such work, including zoning regulations;
and
   D.   To keep comprehensive records of applications, of permits or
certificates issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered, and of notices
or orders issued. All such records shall be open to public inspection during
stated office hours, but shall not be removed from the office of the building
official without his or her written consent. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-7: BUILDING INSPECTOR; POWERS:
The building inspector shall have the following powers:
   A.   To enter any building or structure or premises at any reasonable hour,
whether complete or in the process of erection, to perform the duties;
   B.   To adopt and enforce all such prudent emergency measures as he or she
may deem necessary and expedient for the public safety under the laws of the
city;
   C.   May cause any work done in violation to be discontinued until he or she
shall have satisfactory evidence that the work will be done in accordance with
the building regulations of the city, subject to the right of any builder or
owner to appeal to the governing body. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-8: BUILDING INSPECTOR; RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The building inspector, or his or her agent, upon proper identification, shall
have authority to enter any building, structure or premises at any reasonable
hour to perform his or her duties. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-9: CLARIFICATION; MODIFICATION:
   A.   The governing body shall be the final determiner of the scope and
meaning of all provisions of the building code which may be unclear, ambiguous,
or requiring interpretation.
   B.   The building inspector shall have power to modify any of the provisions
of the building code upon application in writing by the owner or lessee or his
or her authorized agent when there are practical difficulties in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of the code. In approving modifications, the
building inspector shall see that the spirit of the code is observed, public
safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars of a modification
when granted or allowed and the decision of the inspector thereon shall be
entered upon the records of the building inspector and a signed copy shall be
furnished to the applicant. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-10: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; APPROVAL:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or authorized agent who intends to
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish or change the occupancy of a
building or structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove,
convert or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, the
installation of which is regulated by this code, or to cause any such work to
be done within the city without a building permit being first obtained therefor
from the city clerk, after approval by the chief building official or his or
her duly authorized assistant. The application for such permit shall be made
and the permit obtained before work is commenced upon any building or structure
or the foundation thereof, or before the removal of any building begins. (Ord.
1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-11: BUILDING PERMIT; APPLICATION INFORMATION REQUIRED:
   A.   A building permit shall be issued upon an application in writing to the
office of city clerk on a form or forms provided for the purpose. This
application shall, among other things, disclose the following:
      1.   The name of the owner of the lot or tract of ground;
      2.   The location of the building or structure;
      3.   The building work proposed;
      4.   The outside dimensions of the building by floors and dimensions of
the basement (if any);
      5.   The class of occupancy;
      6.   The class of construction;
      7.   The kind of materials to be used for walls, floors, ceilings, roofs,
and foundations;
      8.   The estimated cost of the work;
      9.   The date work will commence;
      10.   Expected date of completion;
      11.   Name and address of contractor or contractors doing the work; and
      12.   Such other information as may be pertinent to the issuance of the
required permit.
   B.   
      1.   An application for a building permit shall be signed by the owner or
his or her duly authorized agent, or a building contractor licensed by the
city. If the application is made by the owner or his or her agent, it shall
contain the name or names of the licensed contractor or contractors doing the
work described, or a building permit may be issued to the owner upon his or her
application disclosing satisfactory evidence that the proposed work will be
performed by the owner, himself or herself and not by a licensed contractor,
and likewise subject to the final approval of the building inspector for work
performed.
      2.   If an application for a building permit indicates that it is for
commercial or residential roofing services, including construction,
installation, renovation, repair, maintenance, alteration or waterproofing, the
application shall include the contractor's name, the contractor's place of
business within the city (and home office if not a resident), the contractor's
state registration number as issued under the Kansas Roofing Registration Act
(Kansas Statutes Annotated sections 50-6,121, et seq.), and shall also be
signed by the roofing contractor or contractor's authorized agent. Provided,
however, that this subsection shall not apply to:
         a.   An actual owner of commercial or residential property who
physically performs, or has employees who perform, roofing services on such
owner's own dwelling or other structures located on the residential property
without the assistance of a registered roofing contractor.
         b.   To those persons identified in Kansas Statutes Annotated section
50-6,129(a)(1) through (8), and amendments there to.
         c.   To an "exempt general contractor", as defined in Kansas Statutes
Annotated section 50-6,122, and amendments thereto.
      3.   If the application for a building permit indicates that it involves
renovation, repairing or painting of a home or child-occupied facility,
including day care centers and schools, built before 1978 and will disturb six
(6) square feet of painted interior surfaces or twenty (20) square feet of
painted exterior surfaces, the contractor performing the services must furnish
proof of Kansas certification as a licensed renovation firm or renovator.
Provided, however, that this subsection does not apply to a homeowner
performing work on an owner-occupied residence. In addition, this subsection
does not apply to any other exception or exemption set forth in the Kansas
Department of Health and Environment Renovation, Repair and Painting Rule, as
described in Kansas Statutes Annotated sections 28-72-1 through 28-72-53 and in
40 CFR Part 745, and amendments thereto.
   C.   Upon approval of the completed application, including, if required, the
verification of state roofer registration or other state certification, and a
determination that a permit should be issued, the chief building official or
his or her assistant shall issue a permit to the owner or contractor
authorizing the building work covered by the application. If applicable, the
permit shall include the roofer registration number or any other certification
or license number issued by the state.
   D.   Any permit issued under this section shall be valid and subsisting for
a period of not more than six (6) months from the date of issuance unless the
permittee shall have commenced, within the period so limited, the building work
authorized by such permit. Building work commenced for the purpose of this
section shall mean the beginning of building work other than the preparation of
plans or the staking out of the building location or the letting of a building
contract. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-12: BUILDING PERMIT; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
Whenever an application for a building permit is made, the chief building
official may, if he or she finds it necessary to determine whether building
work described in the application will comply with the laws pertaining to such
work, require that the applicant file a written description or drawing of the
proposed building as may be prepared for the purpose. If such drawing or
description is insufficient for the purposes of determining whether a permit
should be issued, the building official may require the applicant to file
complete architectural and engineering plans and specifications for such
building, or any part thereof, as may be necessary for the inspector to
determine compliance. The filing of such plans and specifications and the
approval thereof in connection with an application for a permit shall not in
any way affect the authority of the city to deny or issue a permit, or to
inspect any building work for conformity. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-13: BUILDING PERMIT; FEES:
No permit as required by the Building Code shall be issued until the fee
prescribed in this chapter or this Code shall have been paid, nor shall an
amendment to a permit be approved until the additional fee, if any, shall have
been paid.
   A.   The following fee schedule is adopted:
      1.   New construction: Based on total square footage of entire project
(including basement):
         a.   Residential:
            (1)   Building Permit:
               (A)   Primary Structure: One hundred dollars ($100.00) base fee
plus seven dollars and fifty cents per one hundred square feet ($7.50/100 sq.
ft.).
               (B)   Garages (any allowable size): One hundred dollar ($100.00)
flat fee.
            (2)   Electrical Permit:
               (A)   One hundred dollar ($100.00) base fee plus four dollars
and fifty cents per one hundred square feet ($4.50/100 sq. ft.).
               (B)   Garages: Twenty five dollar ($25.00) flat fee.
            (3)   Mechanical Permit: One hundred dollar ($100.00) base fee plus
four dollars and fifty cents per one hundred square feet ($4.50/100 sq. ft.).
            (4)   Plumbing Permit: One hundred dollar ($100.00) base fee plus
four dollars and fifty cents per one hundred square feet ($4.50/100 sq. ft.).
         b.   Commercial:
            (1)   Building Permit: One hundred dollar ($100.00) base fee plus
twenty dollars per one hundred square feet ($20.00/100 sq. ft.).
            (2)   Electrical Permit: One hundred dollar ($100.00) base fee plus
four dollars and fifty cents per one hundred square feet ($4.50/100 sq. ft.).
            (3)   Fire Alarm Permit: One hundred dollar ($100.00) flat fee.
            (4)   Mechanical Permit: One hundred dollar ($100.00) base fee plus
four dollars and fifty cents per one hundred square feet ($4.50/100 sq. ft.).
            (5)   Plumbing Permit: One hundred dollar ($100.00) base fee plus
four dollars and fifty cents per one hundred square feet ($4.50/100 sq. ft.).
            (6)   Fire Sprinkler System: One hundred dollar ($100.00) base fee
plus four dollars and fifty cents per one hundred square feet ($4.50/100 sq.
ft.).
      2.   Major Additions Or Alterations (more than four hundred square feet
(400 sq. ft.)):
         a.   Residential:
            (1)   Building Permit: Fifty dollar ($50.00) base fee plus seven
dollars and fifty cents per one hundred square feet ($7.50/100 sq. ft.).
            (2)   Electrical Permit: Fifty dollar ($50.00) base fee plus four
dollars and fifty cents per one hundred square feet ($4.50/100 sq. ft.)
            (3)   Mechanical Permit: Fifty dollar ($50.00) base fee plus four
dollars and fifty cents per one hundred square feet ($4.50/100 sq. ft.).
            (4)   Plumbing Permit: Fifty dollar ($50.00) base fee plus four
dollars and fifty cents per one hundred square feet ($4.50/100 sq. ft.).
         b.   Commercial:
            (1)   Building Permit: Fifty dollar ($50.00) base fee plus twenty
dollars per one hundred square feet ($20.00/100 sq. ft.).
            (2)   Electrical Permit: Fifty dollar ($50.00) base fee plus four
dollars and fifty cents per one hundred square feet ($4.50/100 sq. ft.).
            (3)   Mechanical Permit: Fifty dollars ($50.00) base fee plus four
dollars and fifty cents per one hundred square feet ($4.50/100 sq. ft.).
            (4)   Plumbing Permit: Fifty dollar ($50.00) base fee plus four
dollars and fifty cents per one hundred square feet ($4.50/100 sq. ft.).
      3.   Minor Additions/Alterations (less than four hundred square feet (400
sq. ft.)):
         a.   Residential:
            (1)   Building Permit: Forty five dollar ($45.00) flat fee:
               (A)   Moving a trailer (includes inspection fees);
               (B)   Patio/patio covers;
               (C)   Sheds;
               (D)   Decks;
               (E)   Carports;
               (F)   Porches;
               (G)   Windows (enlarge or escape windows).
            (2)   Curb Cut: Fifteen dollars ($15.00).
            (3)   Roof Permits: Forty five dollars ($45.00) plus one dollar per
one hundred square feet ($1.00/100 sq. ft.) of roof (square feet of shingles).
            (4)   Electrical Permits: Thirty five dollars ($35.00), includes
breaker box.
            (5)   New Or Replacement Electrical Service: Thirty five dollars
($35.00).
            (6)   New Or Replacement HVAC: Thirty five dollars per unit
($35.00/unit).
            (7)   Plumbing Permit: Thirty five dollars ($35.00).
            (8)   Water Heater: Thirty five dollars ($35.00).
         b.   Commercial:
            (1)   Building Permit: One hundred dollars ($100.00).
            (2)   Roof Permit: One hundred dollars ($100.00) plus four dollars
per one hundred square feet ($4.00/100 sq. ft.) (square feet of shingles).
            (3)   Electrical Permit: Fifty dollars ($50.00) (includes breaker
box).
            (4)   New Or Replacement HVAC: One hundred dollars per unit
($100.00/unit).
            (5)   Commercial Kitchen Exhaust Hoods: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
            (6)   Commercial Kitchen Hood Suppression Systems: Fifty dollars
($50.00).
            (7)   Plumbing Permit: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
      4.   Flat Fee Exceptions To The Above:
         a.   Building:
            (1)   Cell Towers: Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
            (2)   Siding/Stucco (partial structure less than 400 square feet):
Forty five dollars ($45.00).
            (3)   Siding/Stucco (more than 400 square feet): Forty five dollars
($45.00) base plus one dollar per one hundred square feet ($1.00/100 sq. ft.).
            (4)   Fence: Forty five dollars ($45.00).
            (5)   Ramp: Twenty five dollars ($25.00).
            (6)   Demolition Permits: Fifteen dollars ($15.00). Owner or
contractor is required to have a one million dollar ($1,000,000.00) insurance
policy for commercial or industrial structures.
            (7)   Pool (In-Ground): One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00),
includes electrical and plumbing inspections.
            (8)   Pool (Above-Ground): Twenty five dollars ($25.00).
            (9)   Signs (All Sizes): Fifty dollars each ($50.00/each).
            (10)   Electrical Installation For Signs: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
            (11)   Temporary Signs (any size - thirty (30) day duration):
Twenty five dollars ($25.00) each sign.
            (12)   Flatwork (non-porous, dustless surface) -- two hundred fifty
(250) to nine hundred ninety nine (999) square feet: Twenty five dollars
($25.00).
            (13)   Flatwork (non-porous, dustless surface) -- one thousand
(1,000) or more square feet: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
         b.   Electrical:
            (1)   Generator (Residential): One hundred dollars ($100.00).
            (2)   Generator (Commercial): Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
            (3)   Solar Panels (Residential): One hundred dollars ($100.00).
            (4)   Solar Panels (Commercial): Two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00).
         c.   Plumbing:
            (1)   Lawn Sprinkler Systems: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
            (2)   Lawn Sprinkler Systems (Partial): Twenty five dollars
($25.00).
            (3)   Backflow Device: Twenty five dollars ($25.00).
            (4)   Sewer Tap: Twenty five dollars ($25.00).
            (5)   Replace Sewer Line: Thirty five dollars ($35.00) plus sewer
tap fee if needed.
      5.   Miscellaneous:
         a.   Extensions Of Active Permits: Fifteen dollars ($15.00) per six
(6) month extension.
         b.   Renewal Of Expired Permits: One half (1/2) the cost of the
original permit.
         c.   Work Begun Before Permit Obtained: Add one half (1/2) cost of the
permit fee. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021; amd. Ord. 1246, 10-3-2022)
9-1-14: BUILDING PERMIT; POSTING:
A copy of the building permit shall be kept on the premises for public
inspection during the performance of the work and until the completion of the
same. The building inspector may require a certified copy of the approved plans
to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work to
the completion thereof. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-15: CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL:
Upon the completion of any work under a building permit, the chief building
official, the building inspector or his or her designee is authorized to issue
a certificate of approval for the occupancy and use of the building or
structure. The certificate shall show the number of inspections made and the
orders and corrections required during the course of the work. A copy of such
certificate shall be given the owner. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-16: INSPECTIONS OF BUILDING; LAYOUT OF BUILDING; FOUNDATIONS AND FOOTINGS;
NOTICE TO INSPECTOR:
   A.   The contractor or builder having a permit for new construction, or
additions to existing buildings, shall notify the chief building official or
building inspector immediately upon the marking or laying out of the site and
foundation for such work. The official or inspector shall inspect the layout
for conformity and with respect to lot lines, setbacks and location of the
proposed buildings to determine conformity with the city zoning regulations. In
case of doubt respecting the required location, the chief building official may
require an official survey of the lot lines to determine conformity, at the
expense of the permit holder.
   B.   Upon completion of the excavation for the building foundation and
footings and the construction of the necessary forms thereof and before the
foundation and footings are poured or laid, the official or inspector shall be
notified as in the first case, and it shall be his or her duty to inspect all
such work for conformity with laws respecting location of the building
foundations and footings.
   C.   The building inspector shall during the course of all building make
such other inspections as may be directed by the chief building official to be
made during any successive stage of the construction or other work covered by a
permit in order to secure compliance with laws pertaining thereto. (Ord. 1228,
12-20-2021)
9-1-17: REQUEST FOR INSPECTION:
Upon the completion of any building construction work, it shall be the duty of
the person doing such work to notify the building inspector and request that it
be inspected; after which such work shall be inspected promptly as hereinafter
provided. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-18: BUILDER OR BUILDING CONTRACTOR DEFINED:
   A.   A builder or building contractor for purposes of this chapter shall be
any person, firm, co-partnership, corporation, association, or any combination
thereof, whether a resident or not of the city:
      1.   Who or which undertakes with or for another, for a fixed sum, price,
fee or any compensation other than wages, to build, construct, alter, repair,
add to, wreck or move any building or structure (or any portion thereof), or
any sidewalk, driveway entrance or structure in any street, or any advertising
sign, panel poster or billboard, or any other structure, in the city, for which
a building or construction permit may now or hereafter be required by the laws
of the city; or
      2.   Who or which advertises or represents himself, herself, or itself to
the public to have the capacity or ability to undertake, or submit a bid or
offer to build, construct, alter, repair, add to or wreck, remove, restore or
replace any building, structure or construction work or any portion thereof; or
      3.   Who or which builds, constructs, alters, adds to or wrecks any
buildings or structures either on his or her own or other property for purposes
of sale or speculation.
   B.   A builder or building contractor as defined shall not mean or include:
      1.   Any subcontractor, except for a roofing contractor, working under
the supervision of a general contractor; or
      2.   Any plumbers, gas fitters, electricians, or other specialized
occupation for which special licenses or bonds are required by other city laws;
or
      3.   Any owner or his or her authorized agents or employees making
ordinary repairs to his, her or its own building or structure not involving the
structural parts of the building for which a permit is not required or on which
a contractor, as defined, is not required, employed or engaged to perform; or
      4.   Any property owner personally performing any improvements,
alterations or building construction within or upon his or her own residence
and intended for his or her own personal use and permanent occupancy; provided,
the owner shall satisfy the building official as to his or her ability to
perform such work secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in accordance
with this chapter, and apply for an inspection and receive approval. Personal
building construction by an owner under this section shall be by himself,
herself, for himself or herself on his or her own residence, without
compensation and no person shall be employed to assist him or her in any way on
such work except a builder or building contractor licensed by the city;
      5.   Any person engaged in construction work not involving a total cost
of greater than five hundred dollars ($500.00), exclusive of labor. (Ord. 1228,
12-20-2021)
9-1-19: BUILDER’S OR BUILDING CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED; BUILDING PERMITS;
UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   Each builder or building contractor shall before entering upon any
building or construction work subject to regulation by city laws, apply to the
city clerk for a builder's or building contractor's license and receive the
same as hereinafter provided and have in his or her possession a valid license
authorizing him, her or it to engage in the trade or occupation of a builder or
building contractor in the city.
   B.   No permit for any building or construction work shall be issued for any
such work to be performed by a builder or building contractor, as defined, who
has not first obtained a license upon making a proper application and payment
of the license fee as required.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company, association or
corporation to enter into a contract or agreement with another so as to bring
himself, herself, or itself under the definition of builder or building
contractor herein, or to perform any work as a builder or building contractor
or any work under a contract for any work involving the construction, wrecking
or moving of any building, without first having obtained a builder's or
building contractor's license issued by the city. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-20: BUILDER’S OR BUILDING CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE; APPLICATION; GRANTING:
   A.   Application for a builder's or building contractor's license shall be
made upon a form to be supplied by the city which shall disclose the name of
the applicant, his or her place of business in the city (and home office if a
nonresident), the kind of contracting work engaged in (as general contracting,
roofing, siding, masonry, plastering, lathing, excavating, waterproofing, metal
work, foundation work, sign hanging, cement work and painting and paper
hanging, house wrecking or moving and the like), the length of time engaged in
such work and places where work has been performed within the past two (2)
years. The application shall be signed by the builder or building contractor or
his or her authorized agent. The applications shall be, by the chief building
official, referred to the governing body at its next meeting for action
thereon. Such license shall be issued by the city clerk, upon payment of the
fees hereinafter provided after approval of the governing body.
   B.   If the applicant is in the business of a roofing contractor, as defined
by the Kansas Roofing Registration Act (KRRA), Kansas Statutes Annotated
sections 50-6,121, et seq., and amendments thereto, the applicant shall be
required to have a valid state registration as required under the KRRA and
shall present such certificate to the city clerk when applying for a builder's
or building contractor's license. No such license shall be issued until it is
verified that the roofing contractor is in good standing pursuant to the KRRA.
Provided, however, that this subsection does not apply to an "exempt general
contractor" as defined in Kansas Statutes Annotated section 50-6,122, and
amendments thereto. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-21: BUILDER’S OR BUILDING CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE; LICENSE FEES; CONDITIONS;
RENEWAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   The following license fees shall be paid for the calendar year or major
fraction thereof:
      1.   General builder or building contractor, who shall qualify to engage
in more than one kind of contract work, except house moving, the sum of seventy
five dollars ($75.00);
      2.   Limited builder or building contractor, who shall qualify to engage
in not more than one kind of contract work, the sum of seventy five dollars
($75.00);
      3.   House wreckers or movers, the sum of seventy five dollars ($75.00);
      4.   Sign hangers and panel posters, the sum of seventy five dollars
($75.00).
      5.   Roofing contractor, the sum of seventy five dollars ($75.00).
Any license issued on or after July 1 of each year shall be issued upon payment
of one-half the annual license fee.
   B.   Each such license shall set forth the kind of contract work in which
the licensee may engage. The licensee shall display his or her license at any
place where he or she may be engaged in contract work or produce the same on
demand of any city officer. All licenses shall be renewable annually as in the
case of an original license on or before the first day of January of the year
for which issued.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to contract
for any kind of work covered without having a valid license issued by the city
to perform such contracts. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-22: INSURANCE:
A builder or building contractor must procure and maintain a liability
insurance policy in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00)
for the death or injury of any one person and three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) for the death or injury of any number of persons in any one
accident and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for property damage in any one
accident. Such policies of insurance shall be issued by some insurance company
authorized to do business in the State of Kansas. A builder or building
contractor may qualify as to the insurance requirements by filing a certificate
with the city clerk executed by the resident agent of such company stating that
the required policy of insurance has been issued by such company for the
purpose required and that such insurer will not cancel the policy except upon
giving thirty (30) days notice in writing to the city; and that the certificate
shall be filed for an annual period of such year. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-23: LICENSE SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; APPEAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   The license of any builder or building contractor may be suspended
temporarily, for a period of not to exceed thirty (30) days at any one time, by
the chief building official upon his or her own motion or upon a complaint of
the city building inspector.
Notice shall be given in writing to such builder or building contractor giving
reasonable notice of a time of hearing of the complaint or the matter alleged
against such builder or building contractor involving any one or more of the
following:
      1.   Misrepresentation of a material fact by applicant in obtaining a
license;
      2.   Use of license to obtain a building permit for another;
      3.   Failure or neglect to observe conditions of permit authorizing
encumbering of streets or sidewalks for safety of public;
      4.   Performance of any building or construction work without a permit
where one is required by law; or
      5.   Willful disregard of any violation of the building and construction
laws, or failure to comply with any lawful order of the city building
inspector.
   B.   Any licensee may within fifteen (15) days appeal in writing to the
governing body from any order of the chief building official suspending his or
her license for its final decision thereon. The governing body may upon such
hearing terminate such suspension within not more than thirty (30) days
thereafter, or may revoke such license. If any license shall be revoked, the
builder or building contractor shall not be eligible for a new license during a
period of six (6) months thereafter. No fee shall be refunded in event of the
suspension or revocation of any contractor's license.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to engage in the occupation or trade of builder or
building contractor during the time any license of such builder or building
contractor has been suspended or revoked. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-24: WORK BY PROPERTY OWNERS:
Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from personally
performing any building or construction work within and upon his or her own
residence and intended for his or her personal use and permanent occupancy;
provided, the owner shall satisfy the building inspector as to his or her
ability to perform such work, secure a permit, pay required fees, and apply for
an inspection and receive a certificate of approval. Personal building or
construction performed by an owner shall be by himself, herself, for himself or
herself on his or her own residence, without compensation and no person shall
be employed to assist him or her in any way on such work except a builder or
building contractor licensed by the city. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-25: LIABILITY:
This shall not be construed to relieve from any liability or lessen the
liability of any person performing any activity connected herewith, nor shall
the city be held as assuming any liability by reason of any inspection
authorized herein, by reason of any certificate of inspection issued by it or
by reason of any permit or license granted herein. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-26: SEVERABILITY:
If any section of the International Building Code shall be held
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
then such section shall be considered separate and apart from the remaining
sections, the section to be completely severable from the remaining provisions
which shall continue in full force and effect. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-27: DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURE; PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall demolish or partially demolish any house,
building, derrick, or other structure without first obtaining a permit
therefor. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-28: DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURE; APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
All applications for permits required under the provisions of this chapter
shall be made in writing to the city clerk as specified in section
9-1-11 of this chapter and including the day said demolition is to commence.
(Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-29: DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURE; INSURANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Any commercial or industrial structure to be demolished or partially
demolished thereto will require a certificate of insurance showing that said
person is insured for the demolishing or removing in the amount of not less
than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00), insuring the city for any damage as a
result of demolition or partially demolishing any commercial or industrial
building within the city limits. The applicant may petition the City Council
for this requirement to be waived or the amount of insurance be reduced.
   B.   For all non-commercial and non-industrial structures to be demolished
or partially demolished thereto, the chief building official or his or her
authorized designee shall make the determination if any amount of insurance,
insuring the city for any damage as a result of demolition or partial
demolition, is required before the permit is approved. The chief building
official or his or her authorized designee must provide in writing, specific
reasoning as to why insurance is required. The applicant may petition the City
Council for this requirement to be waived or the amount of insurance be
reduced. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-30: DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURE; FEE:
Before any permit to demolish or partial demolish any house or structure is
given under the provisions of this chapter, the applicant shall pay a fee of
fifteen dollars ($15.00) to the city clerk. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-31: DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURE; DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL:
The city clerk shall, upon filing of the above application, refer the same to
the chief building official or his or her authorized designee to inspect the
proposed building to be demolished or partially demolished to make note of any
potential hazards (proximity to other structures, fences, utilities) or
anything else that the chief building official or his or her authorized
designee feels is important to note to the applicant before proceeding with
demolition; and determine if, in the case of non-commercial and non-industrial
structures, that insurance be required before demolition may proceed. It shall
also be the duty of the chief building official or his or her authorized
designee to inspect the progress of demolition or partial demolition of the
structure to see that the same is being demolished safely and in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-32: MOVING STRUCTURE; PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall move, haul, or transport any house,
building, derrick, or other structure of the height when loaded for movement of
sixteen feet (16') or more from the surface of the highway, road, street or
alley, or a width of eight feet (8') or more or which cannot be moved at a
speed of four (4) miles per hour or faster, upon, across or over any street,
alley or sidewalk in this city without first obtaining a permit therefor. (Ord.
1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-33: MOVING STRUCTURE; APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
All applications for permits required under the provisions of this chapter
shall be made in writing to the city clerk specifying the day and hour said
moving is to commence and the route through the city's streets over which the
house, building, derrick or other structure shall be moved and stating whether
it will be necessary to cut and move, raise, or in any way interfere with any
wires, cables or other aerial equipment of any public or municipally-owned
utility, and if so, the application shall also state the name of the public or
municipally-owned utility, and the time and location that the applicant's
moving operations shall necessitate the cutting, moving, raising or otherwise
interfering with such aerial facilities. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-34: MOVING STRUCTURE; BOND, INSURANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be the duty of any person at the time of making application
for a permit as provided in this chapter to give a good and sufficient surety
bond to the city, to be approved by the governing body, indemnifying the city
against any loss or damage resulting from the failure of any such person to
comply with the provisions of this chapter or for any damage or injury caused
in moving any such house or structure. The bond herein shall be in the sum of
five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), or cash may be deposited in lieu of such
surety bond.
   B.   A public liability insurance policy issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the State of Kansas, in the amount of one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per person, three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) per accident as to personal injury, and fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) property damage may be permitted in lieu of a bond. (Ord. 1228,
12-20-2021)
9-1-35: MOVING STRUCTURE; FEE:
Before any permit to move any house or structure is given under the provisions
of this chapter, the applicant shall pay a fee of not less than five dollars
($5.00) to the city clerk; plus the additional cost for the time for any city
crews involved in such moving. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-36: ROUTE; DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL:
The city clerk shall, upon filing of the above application, refer the same to
the chief building official or his or her authorized designee to check the
proposed route and determine if it is practical to move such house or other
structure over the route proposed. If it shall appear that such route is not
practical and another route may be used equally well with less danger to street
and travel, then he or she may designate such other route as the one to be used
and shall notify the applicant of the same. The building official or his or her
authorized designee may also require the planking of any street, bridge or
culvert or any part thereof to prevent damage thereto. It shall also be the
duty of the chief building official or his or her authorized designee to
inspect the progress of moving any house or other structure to see that the
same is being moved in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-37: NOTICE TO OWNERS:
   A.   Upon issuance of a moving permit the applicant shall give not less than
fifteen (15) days written notice to any person owning or operating any wires,
cables or other aerial equipment along the proposed route of the intent to move
the structure, giving the time and location that the applicants moving
operation shall necessitate the cutting, moving, raising or interfering of any
wires, cables or other aerial equipment.
   B.   The notice provision of subsection A shall not apply where the person
owning or operating any wires, cables or other aerial equipment has waived
their right to advance notice.
   C.   Should the moving operation be delayed, the applicant shall give the
owner or his or her agent not less than twenty four (24) hours advance notice
of the actual operation. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-38: DUTY OF OWNERS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the person or the city owning or operating such
poles or wires after service of notice as provided herein, to furnish competent
lineman or workmen to remove such poles, or raise or cut such wires as will be
necessary to facilitate the moving of such house or structure. The necessary
expense which is incurred thereby shall be paid by the holder of the moving
permit.
   B.   The owner of any wires, cables or other aerial equipment, after service
of notice as provided in section
9-1-37, shall be liable to the permit holder for damages in an amount not to
exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day for each day the owner shall fail
or refuse to accommodate the permit holder's moving operations. (Ord. 1228, 12-
20-2021)
9-1-39: INTERFERING WITH POLES; WIRES:
It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in moving any house or other
structure to raise, cut or in any way interfere with any wires or poles bearing
wires or any other aerial equipment. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021)
9-1-40: DISPLAY OF LANTERNS:
It shall be the duty of any person moving any of the structures mentioned in
this chapter upon or across any street, alley or sidewalk or other public
place, in this city, to display red lanterns thereon in such a manner as to
show the extreme height and width thereof from sunset to sunrise. (Ord. 1228,
12-20-2021)
9-1-41: FLATWORK:
Any flatwork constructed from a non-porous, dustless surface (concrete,
asphalt, etc.) that has a total area at or greater than two hundred fifty (250)
square feet shall require a building permit in order for the city to confirm
that such flatwork shall not adversely affect neighboring properties nor
overwhelm the city’s stormwater drainage in the area. Foundations for any
structure, sidewalks and the replacement (except for expansion or relocation)
of existing flatwork constructed from a non-porous, dustless surface shall be
exempt from this section. (Ord. 1246, 10-3-2022)
9-1-42: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided in the building code, adopted by the city in section
9-1-2 of this chapter, any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a Class C violation and be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day the violation occurs or remains shall be a new and
separate violation. (Ord. 1228, 12-20-2021; amd. Ord. 1246, 10-3-2022)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Adoption Of Electrical Code
9-2-2: Permit Requirements
9-2-3: Fee For Permit
9-2-4: Electrical Contractors
9-2-1: ADOPTION OF ELECTRICAL CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the City, for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the use of electricity, that certain Electrical Code known as
the 2008 issue of the National Electrical Code, save and except such portions
as are hereafter deleted, modified or amended, of which not less than three (3)
copies have been and are now filed in the Office of the City Clerk, and the
same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length
herein, and from the date on which this section shall take effect, unless
otherwise applicable, the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the
construction of all buildings and structures located or contained within the
corporate limits of the City. (Ord. 1086, 6-16-2008)
9-2-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Required:
      1.   No electrical work shall be commenced in any building or on any
premises within the City until a permit to do such work has been obtained from
the building official.
      2.   A separate permit shall be obtained for each building structure or
premises.
      3.   No person shall allow any other person to do or cause to be done any
electrical work under any permit secured by such person except persons in his
employ.
   B.   Exception: No permit shall be required in the case of any repair work
which does not include the replacement or rearrangement of electrical wiring,
circuits or outlets.
   C.   Contractor's License Required: No permit shall be issued to any person
to do or cause to be done any electrical work regulated by this chapter to any
person not holding a valid unexpired and unrevoked electrician or electrical
contractor's license.
   D.   Application For Permit: Any person legally entitled to apply for and
receive a permit shall make application on forms provided for that purpose to
the building official, giving a description of the character of the work
proposed to be done and the location, ownership, occupancy and use of the
premises. The building official may require plans, specifications or drawings
and such other information as he may deem necessary. If the building official
determines that the application is in compliance with this chapter, he shall
issue the permit applied for upon payment of the required fee as hereafter
fixed.
   E.   Statement Of Work Proposed: Every applicant for a permit hereunder
shall state in writing on the application form provided for that purpose the
character of work proposed to be done and the amount and kind in connection
therewith, together with such information pertinent thereto as may be required.
(1983 Code § 3-203)
9-2-3: FEE FOR PERMIT:
Fees for permits will be governed by section
 9-1-4 of this title. (Ord. 1201, 6-3-2019)
9-2-4: ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS:
   A.   Defined: The term "electrical contractor" shall mean and include anyone
engaged in the business of an electrical contractor; and any person engaged in
the construction, alteration or repair of electrical wiring in buildings or
other structures, or sidewalk or street pavements.
   B.   Construction; Applicability:
      1.   Contractor: Engaging in the construction, repair or alteration of
electrical wiring in any building, structure or street or sidewalk pavement in
the City for which a permit is required under the ordinances of the City shall
be construed as doing business as a contractor in the City.
      2.   Subcontractor: Any person doing business as a subcontractor shall be
construed as engaged in the business of an electrical contractor for which a
license is required by this Section.
   C.   License Required; Exceptions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to engage in business in the City as an
electrical contractor without first having obtained a license therefor as
hereinafter provided.
      2.   Licensing requirements shall not apply to:
         a.   Plumbers, general contractors or other specialized trades for
which special licenses or bonds are required.
         b.   An owner constructing, remodeling or repairing a single- family
dwelling for his own personal use and occupancy. (Ord. 961, 12-20-1993; amd.
1998 Code)
   D.   Qualifications; Fee: Prior to the issuance of such license, each
applicant must meet all requirements for qualifications and pass all tests,
which may from time to time be required by resolution of the City Council. The
annual fee for such license shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00) per year.
   E.   Insurance, Bond Required:
      1.   No permit shall be issued for the construction or wiring of a
building or structure in the City, or for the repair or alteration of the
exterior of any building or structure, unless a certificate or other proof is
filed showing that the contractor carries a license permit bond of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00).
      2.   Before any contractor doing any work for the City on any street or
highway or on any building or premises owned by the City commences work, he
shall file with the City Clerk a certificate or other proof showing that he
carries worker's compensation insurance and public liability insurance as
required by the ordinances and the terms of his contract.
   F.   Compliance With Regulations: It shall be the duty of all electrical
contractors to comply with all ordinances relating to the electrical wiring in
the construction of buildings or other structures, to the construction of
street or sidewalk pavements, and all laws or ordinances pertaining to or
regulating the activities engaged in. (Ord. 961, 12-20-1993)
   G.   Revocation Of License:
      1.   Authority; Right Of Appeal: Any electrical contractor's license may
be revoked by the Building Official for repeated violations (2 or more
violations) of any ordinance relating to the electrical wiring in the
construction of buildings, the use of streets or the replacing of streets,
sidewalks or parkways, or any other ordinance relating to the work performed by
such contractor. Such revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed for
violating this Chapter. The contractor shall have the right to appeal any
license revocation to the Zoning Board of Appeals/Planning and Zoning
Commission, on the grounds there has been an error in law in any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the Building Official in the
enforcement of this Chapter, pursuant to Title 10, Chapter 9 of this Code.
      2.   Hearing: The Building Official may, upon his own motion, and shall,
upon the verified complaint in writing of any person, require any contractor to
appear before the Zoning Board of Appeals/Planning and Zoning Commission for a
hearing upon five (5) days' notice in writing, and mailed to his last known
post office address, and such Board/Commission shall have the final authority
to temporarily suspend or permanently revoke the license, if the holder thereof
is found guilty of or commits any one or more of the following acts or
omissions: (Ord. 961, 12-20-1993; amd. 1998 Code)
         a.   Abandonment of any contract without legal cause.
         b.   Diversion of funds or property received for performance or
completion of a specific contract, or for a specified purpose in the
performance or completion of any contract, and their application or use for any
other contract, obligation or purpose, or the failure, neglect or refusal to
use such funds or property for the performance or completion of such contract.
         c.   Fraudulent departure from or disregard of plans or specifications
in any material respect, without consent of the owner or his duly authorized
representative.
         d.   Wilful and deliberate disregard and violation of the provisions
of this Title or any other ordinance of the City for failure to comply with any
lawful order of the Building Official. (Ord. 961, 12-20-1993)
         e.   Failure to keep records showing all receipts and disbursements of
the licensee in all of his transactions as a contractor, as the term is defined
in subsection A of this Section, and to produce the same for examination by the
Zoning Board of Appeals/Planning and Zoning Commission when so required. (Ord.
961, 12-20-1993; amd. 1998 Code)
         f.   Misrepresentations of a material fact by applicant in obtaining a
license or permit.
         g.   The commission of any fraudulent act by the licensee as a
contractor in consequence of which another is substantially injured.
         h.   Fraudulent use of license to obtain building permits for another.
         i.   Carelessness or negligence in providing reasonable safety
measures for the protection of workmen and the public.
         j.   Failure to obtain proper building permits as required by City
ordinance.
         k.   Failure by a corporation to have an active member or officer who
has been approved by the Board/Commission as a qualified person or licensee.
   H.   Reissuance Of License After Revocation: When a license of a person has
been revoked, a new license shall not be granted until said person shall have
corrected the violation in accordance with this Code or any ordinance of the
City and shall have made application as required for the original license.
(Ord. 961, 12-20-1993)
CHAPTER 3
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
9-3-1: Adoption Of Plumbing Code
9-3-2: Amendments To Plumbing Code (Rep. by Ord. 1036, 6-3-2002)
9-3-3: Administrative Authority
9-3-4: Plumbing Contractors
9-3-1: ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the city, for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for plumbing, that certain building code known as the international
plumbing code, 2006 edition, and the whole thereof, save and except such
portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, of which not less
than three (3) copies have been and now are filed in the office of the city
clerk, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out
at length herein, and from the date on which this section shall take effect,
the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the construction of all
buildings and structures therein contained within the corporate limits of the
city. (Ord. 1087, 6-16-2008)
9-3-2: AMENDMENTS TO PLUMBING CODE:
(Rep. by Ord. 1036, 6-3-2002)
9-3-3: ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY:
The building official is hereby appointed to enforce this chapter. (1983 Code §
3-303)
9-3-4: PLUMBING CONTRACTORS:
   A.   Defined: The term "plumbing contractor" shall mean and include anyone
engaged in the business of plumbing contractor; and any person engaged in the
construction, alteration or repair of plumbing in buildings or other
structures, or sidewalk or street pavements.
   B.   Construction; Applicability:
      1.   Contractor: Engaging in the construction, repair or alteration of
piping fixtures or plumbing in any building, structure or street or sidewalk
pavement in the city for which a permit is required under the ordinances of the
city shall be construed as doing business as a contractor in the city.
      2.   Subcontractor: Any person doing business as a subcontractor shall be
construed as engaged in the business of plumbing contractor for which a license
is required by this section.
   C.   License Required; Exceptions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to engage in business in the city as a plumbing
contractor without first having obtained a license therefor as hereinafter
provided.
      2.   Licensing requirements shall not apply to:
         a.   General contractors, electricians or other specialized trades for
which special licenses or bonds are required.
         b.   An owner constructing, remodeling or repairing a single- family
dwelling for his own personal use and occupancy.
         c.   A job where the work involved does not exceed a total cost of
five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   D.   Qualifications; Fee: Prior to the issuance of such license, each
applicant must meet all requirements for qualifications and pass all tests,
which may from time to time be required by resolution of the city council. The
annual fee for such license shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00) per year.
   E.   Insurance, Bond Required:
      1.   No permit shall be issued for the construction or plumbing of a
building or structure in the city, or for the repair or alteration of the
plumbing on the exterior of any building or structure, unless a certificate or
other proof is filed showing that the contractor carries a license permit bond
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
      2.   Before any contractor doing any work for the city on any street or
highway or on any building or premises owned by the city commences work, he
shall file with the city clerk a certificate or other proof showing that he
carries workers' compensation insurance and public liability insurance as
required by the ordinances and the terms of his contract.
   F.   Compliance With Regulations: It shall be the duty of all plumbing
contractors to comply with all ordinances relating to the plumbing of buildings
or other structures, to the construction of street or sidewalk pavements, and
all laws or ordinances pertaining to or regulating the activities engaged in.
(Ord. 961, 12-20-1993)
   G.   Revocation Of License:
      1.   Authority; Right Of Appeal: Any plumbing contractor's license may be
revoked by the building official for repeated violations (2 or more violations)
of any ordinance relating to the installation of plumbing in the construction
of buildings, the use of streets or the replacing of streets, sidewalks or
parkways, or any other ordinance relating to the work performed by such
contractor. Such revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed for
violating this chapter. The contractor shall have the right to appeal any
license revocation to the zoning board of appeals/planning and zoning
commission, on the grounds there has been an error in law in any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the building official in the
enforcement of this chapter, pursuant to title 10, chapter 9 of this code.
      2.   Hearing: The building official may, upon his own motion, and shall
upon the verified complaint in writing of any person, require any contractor to
appear before the zoning board of appeals/planning and zoning commission for a
hearing upon five (5) days' notice in writing, and mailed to his last known
post office address, and such board/commission shall have the final authority
to temporarily suspend or permanently revoke the license, if the holder thereof
is found guilty of or commits any one or more of the following acts or
omissions: (Ord. 961, 12-20-1993; amd. 1998 Code)
         a.   Abandonment of any contract without legal cause.
         b.   Diversion of funds or property received for performance or
completion of a specific contract, or for a specified purpose in the
performance or completion of any contract, and their application or use for any
other contract, obligation or purpose, or the failure, neglect or refusal to
use such funds or property for the performance or completion of such contract.
         c.   Fraudulent departure from or disregard of plans or specifications
in any material respect, without consent of the owner or his duly authorized
representative.
         d.   Wilful and deliberate disregard and violation of the provisions
of this title or any other ordinance of the city for failure to comply with any
lawful order of the building official. (Ord. 961, 12-20-1993)
         e.   Failure to keep records showing all receipts and disbursements of
the licensee in all of his transactions as a contractor, as the term is defined
in subsection A of this section, and to produce the same for examination by the
zoning board of appeals/planning and zoning commission when so required. (Ord.
961, 12-20-1993; amd. 1998 Code)
         f.   Misrepresentations of a material fact by applicant in obtaining a
license or permit.
         g.   The commission of any fraudulent act by the licensee as a
contractor in consequence of which another is substantially injured.
         h.   Fraudulent use of license to obtain building permits for another.
         i.   Carelessness or negligence in providing reasonable safety
measures for the protection of workmen and the public.
         j.   Failure to obtain proper building permits as required by city
ordinance.
         k.   Failure by a corporation to have an active member or officer who
has been approved by the board/commission as a qualified person or licensee.
   H.   Reissuance Of License After Revocation: When a license of a person has
been revoked, a new license shall not be granted until said person shall have
corrected the violation in accordance with this code or any ordinance of the
city and shall have made application as required for the original license.
(Ord. 961, 12-20-1993)
CHAPTER 4
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-4-1: Adoption Of Mechanical Code
9-4-2: Mechanical Contractors
9-4-3: Penalty
9-4-1: ADOPTION OF MECHANICAL CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the city, for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, removal,
repair, conversion, replacement, use and maintenance of heating, ventilating,
cooling, refrigeration systems, incinerators or other heat producing
appliances, including permits and penalties, that certain uniform code known as
the international mechanical code, 2006 edition, which regulates the erection,
construction, enlargement, alteration, removal, moving, repair, conversion, use
and maintenance of the above, providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor, and providing for penalties and for the violation
thereof, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or
amended, of which not less than three (3) copies have been and now are filed in
the office of the city clerk, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated
as fully as if set out at length herein and from the date on which this section
shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the
construction of all buildings and structures therein contained within the
corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 1088, 6-16-2008)
9-4-2: MECHANICAL CONTRACTORS:
   A.   Defined: The term "mechanical contractor" shall mean and include anyone
engaged in the business of a mechanical building contractor; and any person
engaged in the construction, alteration or repair of heating, air conditioning,
ductwork and other similar material or equipment in buildings or other
structures, or sidewalk or street pavements.
   B.   Construction; Applicability:
      1.   Contractor: Engaging in the construction, repair or alteration of
heating, air conditioning, ductwork and other similar material or equipment in
any building, structure or street or sidewalk pavement in the city for which a
permit is required under the ordinances of the city shall be construed as doing
business as a contractor in the city.
      2.   Subcontractor: Any person doing business as a subcontractor shall be
construed as engaged in the business of an electrical contractor for which a
license is required by this section.
   C.   License Required; Exceptions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to engage in business in the city as a
mechanical contractor without first having obtained a license therefor as
hereinafter provided.
      2.   Licensing requirements shall not apply to:
         a.   General contractors, plumbers electricians or other specialized
trades for which special licenses or bonds are required.
         b.   An owner constructing, remodeling or repairing a single- family
dwelling for his own personal use and occupancy.
         c.   A job where the work involved does not exceed a total cost of
five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   D.   Qualifications; Fee: Prior to the issuance of such license, each
applicant must meet all requirements for qualifications and pass all tests,
which may from time to time be required by resolution of the city council. The
annual fee for such license shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00) per year.
   E.   Insurance, Bond Required:
      1.   No permit shall be issued for the construction or mechanical repair
of equipment within a building or structure in the city, or for the repair or
alteration of the exterior of any building or structure, unless a certificate
or other proof is filed showing that the contractor carries a license permit
bond of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
      2.   Before any contractor doing any work for the city on any street or
highway or on any building or premises owned by the city commences work, he
shall file with the city clerk a certificate or other proof showing that he
carries workers' compensation insurance and public liability insurance as
required by the ordinances and the terms of his contract.
   F.   Compliance With Regulations: It shall be the duty of all mechanical
contractors to comply with all ordinances relating to the installation or
repair of mechanical equipment in buildings or other structures, to the
construction of street or sidewalk pavements, and all laws or ordinances
pertaining to or regulating the activities engaged in. (Ord. 961, 12-20-1993)
   G.   Revocation Of License:
      1.   Authority; Right Of Appeal: Any mechanical contractor's license may
be revoked by the building official for repeated violations (2 or more
violations) of any ordinance relating to the installation or repair of
mechanical equipment in buildings, the use of streets or the replacing of
streets, sidewalks or parkways, or any other ordinance relating to the work
performed by such contractor. Such revocation may be in addition to any fine
imposed for violating this chapter. The contractor shall have the right to
appeal any license revocation to the zoning board of appeals/planning and
zoning commission, on the grounds there has been an error in law in any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the building official in the
enforcement of this chapter, pursuant to title 10, chapter 9 of this code.
      2.   Hearing: The building official may, upon his own motion, and shall
upon the verified complaint in writing of any person, require any contractor to
appear before the zoning board of appeals/planning and zoning commission for a
hearing upon five (5) days' notice in writing, and mailed to his last known
post office address, and such board/commission shall have the final authority
to temporarily suspend or permanently revoke the license, if the holder thereof
is found guilty of or commits any one or more of the following acts or
omissions: (Ord. 961, 12-20-1993; amd. 1998 Code)
         a.   Abandonment of any contract without legal cause.
         b.   Diversion of funds or property received for performance or
completion of a specific contract, or for a specified purpose in the
performance or completion of any contract, and their application or use for any
other contract, obligation or purpose, or the failure, neglect or refusal to
use such funds or property for the performance or completion of such contract.
         c.   Fraudulent departure from or disregard of plans or specifications
in any material respect, without consent of the owner or his duly authorized
representative.
         d.   Wilful and deliberate disregard and violation of the provisions
of this title or any other ordinance of the city for failure to comply with any
lawful order of the building official. (Ord. 961, 12-20-1993)
         e.   Failure to keep records showing all receipts and disbursements of
the licensee in all of his transactions as a contractor, as the term is defined
in subsection A of this section, and to produce the same for examination by the
zoning board of appeals/planning and zoning commission when so required. (Ord.
961, 12-20-1993; amd. 1998 Code)
         f.   Misrepresentations of a material fact by applicant in obtaining a
license or permit.
         g.   The commission of any fraudulent act by the licensee as a
contractor in consequence of which another is substantially injured.
         h.   Fraudulent use of license to obtain building permits for another.
         i.   Carelessness or negligence in providing reasonable safety
measures for the protection of workmen and the public.
         j.   Failure to obtain proper building permits as required by city
ordinance.
         k.   Failure by a corporation to have an active member or officer who
has been approved by the board/commission as a qualified person or licensee.
   H.   Reissuance Of License After Revocation: When a license of a person has
been revoked, a new license shall not be granted until said person shall have
corrected the violation in accordance with this code or any ordinance of the
city and shall have made application as required for the original license.
(Ord. 961, 12-20-1993)
9-4-3: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided in the mechanical code, adopted by the city in
section
9-4-1 of this chapter, any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 961, 12-20-1993; amd. 1998 Code; Ord. 1037, 6-3-2002)
CHAPTER 5
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
SECTION:
9-5-1: Adoption Of Administrative Code
9-5-1: ADOPTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the City, for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the administration of construction, alteration, removal,
demolition, equipment, use, occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings
and structures, including permits and penalties, that certain building code
known as the Uniform Administrative Code, 1988 Edition, which regulates the
erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal,
conversion, demolition, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area and maintenance
of buildings or structures, provides for the issuance of permits and collection
of fees therefor, and provides for penalties and for violation thereof,
recommended by the International Conference of Building Officials, being
particularly the 1988 Edition thereof and the whole thereof, save and except
such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, of which not
less than three (3) copies have been and now are filed in the office of the
City Clerk, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set
out at length herein, and from the date on which this Section shall take
effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the construction of all
buildings and structures therein contained within the corporate limits of the
City. (Ord. 910, 7-5-1988)
CHAPTER 6
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
9-6-1: Adoption Of NFPA Fire Prevention Code
9-6-1: ADOPTION OF NFPA FIRE PREVENTION CODE:
There is hereby adopted by reference, within the corporate limits of the City,
that certain code known as the "NFPA National Fire Prevention Code", 1997
Edition, prepared and published in book form by the League of Kansas
Municipalities, Topeka, Kansas, save and except such articles, sections, parts
or portions as are hereafter modified or changed. No fewer than three (3)
copies of said code shall be marked or stamped "Official Copy as Adopted by
Ordinance 1009", with all sections or portions thereof intended to be omitted
or changed clearly marked to show any such omission or change and to which
shall be attached a copy of Ordinance 1009, and filed with the City Clerk to be
open to inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours. (Ord.
1009, 2-16-1999)
CHAPTER 7
TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY OF BUILDING REGULATIONS AND CODES
SECTION:
9-7-1: Applicability
9-7-2: Specific Regulations And Codes
9-7-3: Permit Requirements
9-7-4: Fees For Permits
9-7-1: APPLICABILITY:
The building regulations and codes enumerated in section 9-7-2 of this chapter
shall also be enforced upon all construction sites and projects which are
located outside the city limits but within the surrounding three (3) mile
extraterritorial zone written by the KSU community service team, July 1992,
adopted by the zoning board of appeals/planning and zoning commission November
23, 1992, and codified in section
10-1-2 of this code. (Ord. 1050, 10-6-2003)
9-7-2: SPECIFIC REGULATIONS AND CODES:
The following building regulations and codes shall have extended territorial
applicability as provided in this chapter:
   A.   Building code adopted by reference in chapter 1 of this title.
   B.   Electrical code adopted by reference in chapter 2 of this title.
   C.   Plumbing code adopted by reference in chapter 3 of this title.
   D.   Mechanical code adopted by reference in chapter 4 of this title.
   E.   Administrative code adopted by reference in chapter 5 of this title.
   F.   Fire code adopted by reference in chapter 6 of this title. (Ord. 1050,
10-6-2003)
9-7-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
No work shall be commenced in or on any building or premises within the three
(3) mile extraterritorial zone defined in section
9-7-1 of this chapter unless all permits required by the regulations and codes
enumerated in section
9-7-2 of this chapter have been obtained from the city and/or city building
official. (Ord. 1050, 10-6-2003)
9-7-4: FEES FOR PERMITS:
No permit shall be issued until the applicable fee for such permit is paid to
the city. The permit fees shall be the same as if the building and premises
were located within the city limits. (Ord. 1050, 10-6-2003)
CHAPTER 8
RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
9-8-1: Adoption Of Residential Code
9-8-2: Amendments
9-8-1: ADOPTION OF RESIDENTIAL CODE:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the Office of the
City Clerk, Scott City, Kansas, being marked and designated as the
International Residential Code, 2015 edition, including appendix chapters A - U
as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
Residential Code of Scott City, Kansas, for regulating and governing the
construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair,
equipment, location, removal and demolition of detached one- and two-family
dwellings and multiple single- family dwellings (townhouses) not more than
three (3) stories in height with separate means of egress as herein provided;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each
and all of the regulation, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
Residential Code on file in the Office of the City of Scott City, Kansas, are
hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in
this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in section
9-8-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 1182, 5-2-2017)
9-8-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section R 101.1. These provisions shall be known as the Residential Code for
one and two family dwellings of Scott City, Kansas and shall be cited as such
and will be referred to herein as "this code."
Table R301.2 (1). Appropriate design criteria shall be designated by the
Building Official.
Section P2603.5.1. Building sewers that connect to private sewage disposal
systems shall be not less than thirty six inches below finished grade at the
point of septic tank connection.
(Ord. 1182, 5-2-2017)
CHAPTER 9
MANUFACTURED HOME REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
9-9-1: Permit Required
9-9-2: Inspection Required
9-9-3: Emergency Inspections
9-9-4: Utility Authorization
9-9-5: Occupancy Standards
9-9-6: Notice Of Violation
9-9-7: Substandard Structures
9-9-8: Penalty
9-9-9: Conformity With State Law
9-9-10: Tie Downs Required
9-9-11: Skirting
9-9-12: Entries And Exits
9-9-13: Implementation
9-9-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   A permit shall be required for the following instances and no such
action will be taken without a permit:
      1.   Any moving or placement of a manufactured home.
      2.   Any repair, alteration, or act of remodeling.
      3.   Any installation or repair to mechanical systems including
installation of any device which requires a direct connection to the gas,
water, or electrical supply lines.
   B.   There will be no fee in addition to the building permit fees required
by section
 9-1-4 of this title.
   C.   Owners or contractors shall apply for permits before the action will be
taken. Final inspection will be completed within one month of the permit
application. A complete record shall be kept by the building inspector of all
permits issued under this chapter. (Ord. 1198, 5-20-2019)
9-9-2: INSPECTION REQUIRED:
Building inspector will inspect any work for which permits are required by this
chapter; and will also inspect for satisfactory occupancy requirements. All
work and occupancy will require inspection and approval by the building
inspector. No worker or contractor will conceal work performed under this
chapter prior to inspection and approval. The building inspector is authorized
to enter onto private property to carry out the requirements herein. (Ord.
1198, 5-20-2019)
9-9-3: EMERGENCY INSPECTIONS:
If the building inspector deems that it would be in the best interests of the
health, safety, and welfare of the occupant of any manufactured home, the
building inspector is authorized to require emergency inspections of any given
manufactured home at his/her sole discretion and at no cost to the owner/
occupant. Notice of such emergency inspections shall be served on the owner and
occupant in person or by certified mail with at least 30-days' notice. Whenever
the inspector finds that an emergency exists which requires immediate action to
protect health and safety, the inspector may without notice make immediate
inspection and take whatever action is deemed necessary to meet the emergency
including requiring immediate remedy or ordering a notice to vacate. (Ord.
1198, 5-20-2019)
9-9-4: UTILITY AUTHORIZATION:
Building inspector must give approval prior to supplying water, electrical
current, or gas to the manufactured home; and shall also inspect after hook-ups
are complete. (Ord. 1198, 5-20-2019)
9-9-5: OCCUPANCY STANDARDS:
   A.   All manufactured homes shall meet the following minimum occupancy
standards:
      1.   Comply with all City Zoning and Building regulations including the
International Residential Building Code adopted by the City.
      2.   All utilities shall be installed and maintained according to
applicable codes.
      3.   Water supply shall be connected by pipes and capable of producing
adequate water pressure under normal operating conditions. Water will be
available by pipes to the kitchen, laundry, and bathroom fixtures.
      4.   All units shall have working bathroom toilet water closet, sink, and
bathtub or shower with hot and cold running water.
      5.   All units shall have a working kitchen sink with hot and cold
running water.
      6.   Shall be connected to sewer system.
      7.   Water and sewer pipes shall be protected from freezing without the
usage of space heaters.
      8.   Unit shall have heating facilities and capable of maintaining room
temperature of sixty degrees (60°) in all habitable rooms without the
assistance of space heaters.
      9.   All electrical equipment, appliances, and wiring shall be visibly
undamaged.
      10.   Occupants shall understand and be able to identify the nearest
storm shelter.
      11.   Storage and disposal of waste shall comply with this Code.
      12.   Unit windows shall be intact and not broken.
      13.   Unit doors shall open and close.
      14.   Interior structure shall be maintained, structurally sound and be
capable of supporting the imposed loads.
      15.   There shall be no defective or deteriorating flooring or floor
supports and no holes in the floor or exterior walls.
      16.   Every unit and every bedroom within the unit will have exits to the
outside and all exit ways shall be kept free of debris.
      17.   All repair construction shall comply with the original construction
code of the unit.
      18.   Unit shall have at least one working smoke detector. A smoke
detector shall be located outside each bedroom area. Detectors shall be
installed according to manufacturer's instructions and have working batteries.
      19.   No unit will be acceptable in a condition of general dilapidation
or improper maintenance.
      20.   Approved tie downs and anchors. (Ord. 1198, 5-20-2019)
9-9-6: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Whenever the building inspector determines that there are reasonable grounds to
believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this chapter or the
Building Codes as applicable to the City, the building inspector shall give
notice of such violation to the person requesting the permit and the owner.
Such notice will be in writing, include a statement of non-compliance, contain
an outline of remedial action, allow reasonable time for remedial action, be
served in person or by certified mail to the last known address of the owner
and permit applicant. (Ord. 1198, 5-20-2019)
9-9-7: SUBSTANDARD STRUCTURES:
Any unit not brought into compliance with this section and applicable code
sixty (60) days after the first notice of violation and any unit not capable of
being brought into compliance with this section shall be deemed inhabitable and
shall either be removed or demolished at the expense of the owner within sixty
(60) days of the notice that such structure is not habitable. No inhabitable
structure shall be allowed to remain within the City. Any inhabitable structure
remaining after the time allowed, shall be deemed a nuisance and subject to
applicable nuisance penalties and abatement. (Ord. 1198, 5-20-2019)
9-9-8: PENALTY:
Violation of any requirement in this section shall be a Municipal offense
holding a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) and jail for up to thirty (30) days. Each day during
which a violation occurs shall be deemed a new violation. Non-compliance by the
contractor will be deemed grounds for revocation of a contractor's license.
(Ord. 1198, 5-20-2019)
9-9-9: CONFORMITY WITH STATE LAW:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be interpreted to modify any rights or
responsibilities under the Kansas Mobile Home Parks Residential Landlord Tenant
Act or the Kansas Residential Landlord Tenant Act. (Ord. 1198, 5-20-2019)
9-9-10: TIE DOWNS REQUIRED:
   A.   All manufactured homes shall be secured to the ground by tie downs and
ground anchors approved by this section. The following tie downs shall be
deemed acceptable:
      1.   On any unit not less than thirty two feet (32') in length and not
more than fifty feet (50') in length, three (3) frame tie downs shall be placed
on each side.
      2.   On any unit more than fifty feet (50') in length and not more than
seventy feet (70') in length, four (4) frame tie downs shall be placed on each
side.
      3.   On any mobile home more than seventy feet (70') in length, five (5)
frame tie downs shall be placed on each side.
      4.   On any double wide unit, frame tie downs shall be used on any such
unit not more than fifty feet (50') in length, three (3) on each side; and on
any such unit more than fifty feet (50') in length, four (4) frame tie downs
shall be used on each side.
      5.   One tie down shall be placed as close to each end of the
manufactured home as practicable and the center tie down shall be located as
close to the center as possible. The distance between all tie downs shall be as
nearly equal as practicable.
      6.   No over the top tie downs are allowed.
      7.   All tie down systems shall either be designed by the manufacturer or
otherwise manufactured for such a purpose.
      8.   Tie downs and anchors shall meet all requirements of the
International Residential Building Code so far as not inconsistent with the
requirements of this section. (Ord. 1198, 5-20-2019)
9-9-11: SKIRTING:
All manufactured homes shall be skirted within sixty (60) days from the date
the manufactured home is placed on the property.
Skirting shall be installed around the exterior perimeter of a manufactured
home to enclose the under-floor area from the bottom of the unit to the ground.
Skirting shall be of materials approved for exterior exposure, such as fiber
cement skirting, and shall be installed and fastened to withstand damage from
winds and exposure to the elements. The skirting material shall be a material
intended for use as a finished exterior surface and shall be painted if
required for the protection of the material. Skirting material shall be the
same or of similar color to the manufactured home.
Panel type skirting material shall be securely attached to wood or metal stud
frame structures that are anchored to the ground and to the bottom of the
manufactured home at not more than six feet (6') on center with approved
anchors. Wood stud frames, and panel materials made of wood products that are
within six inches (6") of the ground shall be preserved or treated for ground
contact in accordance with the Building Code. Wood or metal stud frames shall
consist of a bottom plate, a top plate, and studs at no more than twenty four
inches (24") on center. Panel materials shall be attached to stud frames with
fasteners appropriate for and compatible with the material used, and the
fasteners shall be approved for exterior exposure both in accordance with the
Building Code. Fasteners in panel materials shall be spaced around the
perimeter of each panel at not more than six inches (6") on center and in the
field of the panel at not more than twelve inches (12") on center. Panel
materials shall also be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions.
If used in place of panel skirting materials, perimeter footings shall be of
concrete, and perimeter stem walls above the ground shall be of either concrete
or masonry, both in accordance with the foundation details for a pier and beam
structure as adopted in the Building Code. Perimeter footings and stem walls
shall fully enclose the underside of the manufactured home. Any skirting method
shall provide for under floor access and ventilation as required by the
Building Code. (Ord. 1198, 5-20-2019)
9-9-12: ENTRIES AND EXITS:
All units shall have a four foot by four foot landing outside every entry way
and exit served by stairs. Handrails are required on all outside stairs that
have three (3) or more risers from grade to finished floor elevation. Stairs,
porches and handrails must be constructed so as to be structurally sound and
shall comply with the standards of the current Residential Building Codes.
Wooden stairs, porches and handrails that are subject to weather shall be
constructed with either wood of natural resistance to decay and/or termites or
with treated wood. Field treatment of lumber is not acceptable. (Ord. 1198, 5-
20-2019)
9-9-13: IMPLEMENTATION:
Manufactured homes complying with all codes at the adoption of this chapter
including the International Residential Building Code adopted by the City which
become nonconforming by the adoption of this chapter are deemed legal
nonconforming uses. All manufactured homes will be required to apply for
permits according to this chapter by January 1, 2020. However, nonconforming
manufactured homes may continue to be used within the City for a period not to
exceed two (2) years, so long as such are not a danger to the health or welfare
of the occupants or citizens. Those homes not conforming to the new regulations
imposed by this chapter shall be brought into compliance with this chapter
within two (2) years of its adoption. The owner of any nonconforming
manufactured home may apply to the Governing Body for a one-year extension of
time upon a showing of an extreme hardship. The International Residential
Building Code adopted by the City will still apply to manufactured homes; and
where there is direct conflict this chapter will control. (Ord. 1198, 5-20-
2019)
CHAPTER 10
MINIMUM STANDARD FOR HOUSING AND PREMISES CODE
SECTION:
9-10-1: Title
9-10-2: General
9-10-3: Declaration Of Policy
9-10-4: Definitions
9-10-5: Duty Of Occupant Or Owner Of Occupied Or Unoccupied Building And Its
Premises Or Vacant Premises
9-10-6: Regulations For The Use And Occupancy Of Dwellings
9-10-7: Maintenance And Repair; Dwellings
9-10-8: Designation Of Unfit Dwellings
9-10-9: Designation Of Blighted Premises (Residential And Non-Residential)
9-10-10: Designation Of Blighted Buildings And Premises (Non-Residential)
9-10-11: Inspection Of Buildings And Structures, And Premises
9-10-12: Notice Of Violations; Procedures
9-10-13: Public Officer: Authority
9-10-14: Governing Body; Authority
9-10-15: Order To Correct And/Or Repair, Remove Or Demolish
9-10-16: Demolition By Public Officer; Procedure And Costs
9-10-17: Conflict Of Laws; Effect Or Partial Invalidity
9-10-18: Governing Body; Appeals
9-10-19: Immediate Hazard
9-10-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the “Minimum Standard for Housing and Premises
Code.” (Ord. 1262, 2-5-2024)
9-10-2: GENERAL:
Buildings used in whole or in part as a home or residence of a single family or
person and every building used in whole or in part as a home or residence of
two or more persons or families living in separate apartments and all premises,
either residential or non-residential, shall conform to the requirements of
this chapter. (Ord. 1262, 2-5-2024)
9-10-3: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
The governing body declares the purpose of this chapter is to protect,
preserve, and promote the physical and mental health of the people, investigate
and control communicable diseases, regulate privately and publicly-owned
structures or dwellings, and all premises for the purpose of sanitation and
public health, general appearance, and protect the safety of the people and
promote the general welfare by legislation which shall be applicable to all
dwellings, structures and premises now in existence or hereafter constructed or
developed and which legislation:
   A.   Establishes minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities for
light, ventilation and heating, for safety from fire, for the use and location
and amount of space for human occupancy, and for safe and sanitary maintenance;
   B.   Establishes standards concerning unsightly and blighted buildings and
premises, both residential and non-residential structures.
   C.   Determines the responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants.
   D.   Provides for the administration and enforcement thereof. (Ord. 1262, 2-
5-2024)
9-10-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to the enforcement of this chapter:
                            A portion of a building located partially
BASEMENT:                   underground, but having less than half its clear
                            floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of
                            the adjoining ground.
                            A portion of a building located partially or wholly
CELLAR:                     underground, and having half or more than half of
                            its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average
                            grade of the adjoining ground.
                            Any building which is wholly or partially used or
                            intended to be used for living or sleeping by human
DWELLING:                   occupants: provided, that temporary housing
                            hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a
                            dwelling.
                            Any room or group of rooms located within a
DWELLING UNIT:              dwelling and forming a single habitable unit with
                            facilities which are used, or intended to be used
                            for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
HABITABLE DWELLING:         Any structure or part thereof that shall be used as
                            a home or place of abode by one or more persons.
                            A room designed to be used for living, sleeping,
                            eating or cooking purposes, excluding bathrooms,
HABITABLE ROOM:             toilet rooms, closets, halls and storage places, or
                            other similar places, not used by persons for
                            extended periods.
INFESTATION:                The presence, within or around a dwelling, of
                            insects, rodents, or other pests.
MULTIPLE DWELLING:          Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling
                            units.
                            Any person, over one year of age, living, sleeping,
OCCUPANT:                   cooking, or eating in, or having actual possession
                            of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
                            Any person who has charge, care, owns, or has
OPERATOR:                   control of a premise or of a building or structure
                            or part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming
                            units are let.
                            Any person, firm, or corporation, who jointly or
                            severally along with others, shall be in actual
                            possession of, or have charge, care and control of
                            any structure or dwelling unit or premises within
                            the city as owner, employee, or agent of the owner,
                            or as trustee or guardian of the estate or person
                            of the title holder, and such person shall be
OWNER:                      deemed and taken to be the owner or owner of such
                            property within the true intent and meaning of this
                            chapter and shall be bound to comply with the
                            provisions of this chapter to the same extent as
                            the record owner and notice to any such person
                            shall be deemed and taken to be a good and
                            sufficient notice as if such person or persons were
                            actually the record owner or owner of such
                            property.
PERSON:                     Means and includes any individual, firm,
                            corporation, association or partnership.
                            Means and includes all of the following supplied
                            facilities and equipment: gas or fuel pipes, gas or
                            fuel burning equipment, water pipes, garbage
                            disposal units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks,
PLUMBING:                   installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower
                            baths, installed clothes- washing machines, catch
                            basins, drains, vents and any other similar
                            supplied fixtures, together with all connections to
                            water, sewer, gas or fuel lines.
                            Any lot or land area, either residential or non-
PREMISE:                    residential, not covered by a structure and which
                            is subject to a city tax in part or in whole.
PUBLIC OFFICER:             The Building Inspector.
                            Any dwelling, or that part of a dwelling containing
                            one or more rooming units in which space is let by
ROOMING HOUSE:              the owner or operator to three or more persons who
                            are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother
                            or father, or sister or brother of the owner or
                            operator.
                            Any room or group of rooms forming a single
ROOMING UNIT:               habitable unit used or intended to be used for
                            living and sleeping, but not for cooking or eating
                            purposes.
REFUSE:                     For the purpose of this chapter refuse shall
                            include garbage, and trash.
                            Any accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable
   GARBAGE:              waste matter that attends the preparation of, use
                            of, cooking of, delivering of, or storage of meats,
                            fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable.
                            For the purpose of this chapter combustible trash
                            shall mean waste consisting of papers, cartons,
   TRASH (combustible):  boxes, barrels, wood and excelsior, tree branches,
                            yard trimmings, wood furniture, bedding and leaves,
                            or any other combustible materials.
                            For the purpose of this chapter non-combustible
                            trash shall mean waste consisting of metals, tin
   TRASH (non-combustiblecans, glass, crockery, other mineral refuse and
                            ashes and street rubbish and sweepings, dirt, sand,
                            concrete scrap, or any other non-combustible
                            material.
                            Anything constructed or erected on the ground or
STRUCTURE:                  attached to something having a location on the
                            ground.
SUPPLIED:                   Paid for, furnished, or provided by or under the
                            control of, the owner or operator.
                            Any tent, trailer, or other structure used for
                            human shelter which is designed to be transportable
                            and which is not attached to the ground, house or
TEMPORARY HOUSING:          building or another structure, or to any utilities
                            system on the same premises for more than 30
                            consecutive days, except when located in a mobile
                            home court duly licensed under laws of the city.
 
Words - Meanings. Whenever the words “dwelling,” “dwelling unit,” “rooming
house,” “rooming unit,” “premises,” are used in this chapter, they shall be
construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
(Ord. 1262, 2-5-2024)
9-10-5: DUTY OF OCCUPANT OR OWNER OF OCCUPIED OR UNOCCUPIED BUILDING AND ITS
PREMISES OR VACANT PREMISES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the owner of every occupied or unoccupied
dwelling, building and premises or vacant premise, including all yards, lawns
and courts to keep such property clean and free from any accumulation of filth,
rubbish, garbage, or any similar matter as covered by Sections
9-10-8 and
9-10-9.
   B.   It shall be the duty of each occupant of a dwelling unit to keep in
clean condition the portion of the property which he or she occupies and of
which he or she has exclusive control, to comply with the rules and
regulations, to place all garbage and refuse in proper containers. Where care
of the premise is not the responsibility of the occupant then the owner is
responsible for violations of this chapter applicable to the premise.
   C.   If receptacles are not provided by the owner, then the occupant shall
provide receptacles as may be necessary to contain all garbage and trash.
   D.   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall be
responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests
therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling
containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the unit primarily infested.
   E.   Notwithstanding, the foregoing provisions of this chapter, whenever
infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a
vermin proof or reasonable insect- proof condition, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner and operator.
   F.   Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the dwelling units in any
dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two or
more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of the
owner. (Ord. 1262, 2-5-2024)
9-10-6: REGULATIONS FOR THE USE AND OCCUPANCY OF DWELLINGS:
No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking, or
eating therein, which does not comply with the following requirements. The
following requirements are hereby declared essential to the health and safety
of the occupants of such dwelling or dwelling unit:
   A.   Attached Garages or Non-dwelling Areas. All non-dwelling occupancies
shall be separated from the dwelling unit by a fire resistant wall and if the
dwelling and garage are covered by a common or connecting roof, then the
ceiling also must have a fire resistance rating of not less than one hour as
defined in the building code.
   B.   Basement or Cellar. The basement or cellar of any dwelling shall be
reasonably dry and ventilated and shall be kept free from rubbish accumulation.
   C.   Basement Dwelling Units. The use of basements or cellars for dwelling
units is prohibited unless they comply with Section
9-10-6 R. governing ventilation, provided however, if occupied at the time of
the passage of this chapter and if it complies with all other provisions of
this chapter, the public officer may approve less than the required windows, if
in his or her opinion, the window area is not detrimental to the occupants.
   D.   Bathing Facilities. Every dwelling unit shall contain within a room
which affords privacy to a person in the room, a bathtub or shower in good
working condition and properly connected to an approved water and sewer system.
   E.   Boarding and Rooming Houses. No room shall be used for sleeping
purposes unless the ceiling height is at least seven feet and there are at
least 400 cubic feet of air space for each occupant over six years of age. For
sleeping rooms with sloping ceilings, the ceiling height shall be at least
seven feet over at least 50 percent of the floor area.
      1.   Bathing facilities shall be provided in the form of a tub or shower
for each eight occupants. Separate facilities shall be provided for each sex
and plainly marked.
      2.   A flush water closet shall be provided for each six occupants and
shall be separated with the separate access from bathing facilities if more
than four occupants are served by each. Separate facilities shall be provided
for each sex and shall be plainly marked.
   F.   Drainage. All courts, yards or other areas on the premises of any
dwelling shall be so graded and drained that there is no pooling of the water
thereon. Properly constructed wading and swimming pools and fish ponds are
exempt from this chapter.
   G.   Entrances.
      1.   There shall be for each dwelling unit a normally used separate
access either to a hallway, stairway, or street, which is safe and in good
repair.
      2.   A secondary exit to the ground shall be available in case of fire
through windows, porch roofs, ladders or any combination that is free of hazard
or egress.
   H.   Floor Area. Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet
of floor space for the first occupant thereof and at least 100 additional
square feet of floor space for every additional occupant thereof. The floor
space shall be calculated on the basis of total habitable room area, inside
measurements. No floor space shall be included in determining habitable room
area over which the ceiling is less than seven feet above the floor for the
purpose of this subsection.
   I.   Garbage and Trash Receptacles. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be provided with such receptacles, not exceeding 32 gallon capacity, as
may be necessary to contain all garbage and trash and such receptacles shall at
all times be maintained in good repair.
   J.   Heating. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit shall be so
constructed, insulated, and maintained and be provided by owner or occupant
with heating units so that it is capable or reaching an air temperature of 70
degrees Fahrenheit under ordinary winter conditions. The chimney of the
dwelling or dwelling unit shall be maintained in good order, and the owner of
the approved heating equipment shall maintain it in good order and repair.
   K.   Kitchen Sink. In every dwelling unit containing two or more rooms,
there shall be at least one kitchen sink with public water under pressure and
connected to the public sewer, or if that sewer system is not available, to a
sewage disposal system approved by the city health department.
   L.   Lavatory Facilities. Every dwelling unit shall contain within its walls
a lavatory basin in good working condition and properly connected to an
approved water and sewer system and located in the same room as the required
flush water closet or as near to the room as practicable.
   M.   Lighting. Every habitable room shall have a ceiling electric outlet and
a duplex outlet in wall or floor, or at least two wall or floor outlets.
   N.   Lighting of Toilets and Bathrooms. Every toilet and every bathroom in
every dwelling shall have at least one electric light in either the ceiling or
on the wall.
   O.   Plumbing. All plumbing, water closets and other plumbing fixtures in
every dwelling or dwelling unit shall be maintained in good working order.
   P.   Privies. All pit privies, privy vaults, “dry hopper” sewer-connected
privies and frost- proof closets are hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   Q.   Toilet Facilities. There shall be at least one flush water closet in
good working condition for each dwelling unit, which flush water closet shall
be located within the dwelling and in a room which affords privacy.
   R.   Ventilation. Every habitable room in a dwelling or dwelling unit shall
contain a window or windows openable directly to the outside air and the total
area of such window or windows shall be not less than five percent of the floor
area of such room. An approved system of mechanical ventilation or air
conditioning may be used in lieu of openable windows. Such system shall be
capable of providing not less than four air changes per hour, except that in
toilet compartments such system shall provide a complete air change every five
minutes and be automatically put in operation when the toilet compartment light
is in the “on” position.
   S.   Water Heating Facilities. Every dwelling shall have supplied water
heating facilities which are installed in an approved manner and are maintained
and operated in a safe and good working condition and are properly connected
with the hot water lines to the kitchen sink, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
   T.   Windows and Doors. Every window and exterior door shall be reasonably
weather- tight, lockable, and rodent-proof and shall be kept in good working
condition and good repair. (Ord. 1262, 2-5-2024)
9-10-7: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR; DWELLINGS:
Every dwelling and every part thereof shall be maintained in good repair by the
owner or agent and be fit for human habitation. The roof shall be maintained so
as not to leak and all rainwater shall be drained therefrom so as not to cause
dampness in the walls or ceilings. All floors, stairways, doors, porches,
windows, skylights, chimneys, toilets, sinks, walls, and ceilings shall be kept
in good repair and usable condition. (Ord. 1262, 2-5-2024)
9-10-8: DESIGNATION OF UNFIT DWELLINGS:
The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and placarding of such unfit dwellings or dwelling units shall be carried out
in compliance with the following requirements:
   A.   The Public Officer may determine, or five citizens may petition in
writing, that any dwelling unit is unfit for human use or habitation if he, she
or they find that conditions exist in such structure which are dangerous or
injurious to the health, safety or morals of the occupants of such buildings or
other residents of the neighborhood, or which shall have a blighting influence
on properties in the area.
   B.   Such Conditions may include the following without limitation:
      1   Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accident, or other
calamities.
      2.   Lack of:
         a.   Adequate ventilation.
         b.   Light.
         c.   Cleanliness.
         d.   Sanitary facilities.
      3.   Dilapidation.
      4.   Disrepair.
      5.   Structural defects.
      6.   Overcrowding.
      7.   Inadequate ingress and egress.
      8.   Unsightly appearance that constitute a blight to the adjoining
property, the neighborhood or the city.
      9.   Air Pollution.
   C.   Placarding - Order to Vacate. Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned
as unfit for human habitation, and so designated and placarded by the public
officer shall be vacated within a reasonable time as so ordered.
   D.   Notice of Violation. Procedures as outlined in Section
9-10-12 are applicable hereto.
   E.   Compliance Required before Reoccupancy. No dwelling or dwelling unit
which has been condemned and placarded as unfit for human habitation shall
again be used for human habitation until written approval is secured from, and
such placard is removed by the public officer.
      1.   The public officer shall remove such placard whenever the defect or
defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based have been
eliminated.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for anyone to let, lease, occupy or permit the
occupancy, whether for a consideration or not, of any dwelling so posted and
any violation of this provision shall constitute a public offense within the
meaning of this chapter.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface or remove the placard
from any dwelling or dwelling unit which has been condemned as unfit for human
habitation and placarded as such, except the public officer as herein provided,
and any violation of this provision shall constitute a public offense within
the meaning of this chapter. (Ord. 1262, 2-5-2024)
9-10-9: DESIGNATION OF BLIGHTED PREMISES (RESIDENTIAL AND NON-RESIDENTIAL):
The designation of unsightly and blighted premises and elimination thereof
shall be carried out in compliance with the following requirements.
   A.   The Public Officer may determine, or five citizens may petition in
writing, that if the appearance of a premise is not commensurate with the
character of the properties in the neighborhood or otherwise constitutes a
blight to the adjoining property or the neighborhood or the city for such
reasons as, but not limited to:
      1.   Dead trees or other unsightly natural growth.
      2.   Unsightly stored or parked material, equipment, supplies, machinery,
trucks or automobiles or parts thereof; vermin infestation, inadequate
drainage.
      3.   Violation of any other law or regulations relating to the use of
land and the use and occupancy of the buildings and improvements.
   B.   Notice of Violation. Procedures as outlined in Section
9-10-12 are applicable hereto. (Ord. 1262, 2-5-2024)
9-10-10: DESIGNATION OF BLIGHTED BUILDINGS AND PREMISES (NON- RESIDENTIAL):
   A.   Certain Blighted Conditions covered in Sections
9-10-8 and
9-10-9 concerning buildings and premises which are on the tax roll of the city
are applicable to all non-residential buildings and premises.
   B.   Notice of Violation. Procedures of notification shall follow those
prescribed in Section 9-10-12. (Ord. 1262, 2-5-2024)
9-10-11: INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES, AND PREMISES:
   A.   For the Purpose of Determining Compliance with the provisions of this
chapter, the public officer or his or her authorized representative is hereby
authorized to make inspections to determine the condition, use, and occupancy
of dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units, and the premises upon which the
same are located. This requirement is applicable to existing dwellings or
buildings.
   B.   The Public Officer is not limited by the conditions in the above
paragraph (a) where new construction or vacant premises are involved and may
make such inspections at any appropriate time.
   C.   The Owner, Operator, and Occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit, and
rooming unit shall give the public officer, or his or her authorized
representative, during reasonable hours, free access to such dwelling, dwelling
unit, and rooming unit, and its premises, for the purpose of such inspection,
examination and survey after identification by proper credentials.
   D.   Every Occupant of a dwelling shall give the owner thereof, or his or
her authorized agent or employee, access to any part of such dwelling, or its
premises, at all reasonable times, for the purpose of making such repairs or
alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the provisions of this
chapter or with any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated, or any order
issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1262, 2-5-2024)
9-10-12: NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURES:
   A.   Informal Discussion. Whenever the public officer or his or her
authorized representative determines that there has been a violation of any
provision of this chapter, the public officer will arrange with the alleged
violator for an informal discussion of violations, and whether repair and
correction is justified.
   B.   Formal Hearing. If a satisfactory solution to the violations, either by
correction, demolition or removal, is not forthcoming, then a legal notice of a
formal hearing will be issued according to the following procedures:
      1.   Shall be in writing.
      2.   Shall list the violations alleged to exist or to have been
committed.
      3.   Shall provide a reasonable time, but not less than 30 days in any
event for the correction of the violations particularized.
      4.   Shall be addressed to and served upon the owner of the property, the
operator of the dwelling, and the occupant of the dwelling unit or the rooming
unit concerned, if the occupant is or may be responsible for violation.
      5.   If one or more persons whom the notice is addressed cannot be found
or served after diligent effort to do so, service may be made upon such person
or persons by posting a notice in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling
affected by the notice, in which event the public officer or his or her
authorized representative shall include in the record a statement as to why
such posting was necessary.
      6.   Delivery shall be by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service. If service is made by certified mail, the public officer or
his or her authorized representative shall include in the record a verified
statement giving details regarding the mailing. (Ord. 1262, 2-5-2024)
9-10-13: PUBLIC OFFICER: AUTHORITY:
For the purpose of protecting the city against unsightly or blighted premises,
also the health, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of dwellings or
dwelling units, the public officer referred heretofore is hereby authorized,
with the consent and prior knowledge of the governing body, to enforce
provisions of this chapter and of other laws which regulate or set standards
affecting buildings and premises. (Ord. 1262, 2-5-2024)
9-10-14: GOVERNING BODY; AUTHORITY:
The governing body is hereby authorized:
   A.   To Informally Review all alleged violations as provided in Section 9-
10-12 A. prior to notification prescribed in Section
9-10-12 B.
   B.   To Take Action as prescribed in Section
9-10-12 B.
   C.   To Hear Appeals where there is opposition to any order, requirement,
decision or determination by the public officer in enforcement of this chapter
as outlined in Section
9-10-18.
   D.   Discretionary Authority may be exercised in specific cases where
variance from the terms of the ordinance as:
      1.   Will not adversely affect the public health, safety or welfare of
inhabitants of the city.
      2.   Is in harmony with the spirit of this chapter.
      3.   Where literal enforcement of the ordinance will result in
unnecessary hardship. (Ord. 1262, 2-5-2024)
9-10-15: ORDER TO CORRECT AND/OR REPAIR, REMOVE OR DEMOLISH:
At the time of the placarding and order to vacate specified by 9-10-8 C.
hereof, the public officer shall also issue and cause to be served upon the
owner a notice advising of the option of removal or demolition in lieu of
correction and/or repair following the procedures as outlined in Section 9-10-
12. (Ord. 1262, 2-5-2024)
9-10-16: DEMOLITION BY PUBLIC OFFICER; PROCEDURE AND COSTS:
   A.   Failure to Comply with the order under Section 9-10-15 hereof for the
alteration or improvement of such structure, the public officer, with the
consent and prior knowledge of the governing body, may cause such condemned
structure to be removed or demolished and the premises improved to eliminate
the conditions outlined in Section
9-10-9 of this chapter.
   B.   The Cost of Demolition by a Public Officer shall be a lien upon the
property upon which the cost was incurred and such lien, including as a part
thereof an allowance of his or her costs and necessary attorney’s fees, may be
foreclosed in judicial proceedings in the manner provided or authorized by law
for loans secured by liens on real property or shall be assessed as a special
assessment upon the lot or parcel of land on which the structure was located
and the city clerk at the time of certifying other city taxes, shall certify
the unpaid portion of the aforesaid costs and the county clerk shall extend the
same on the tax rolls against the lot or parcel of land.
   C.   If the Structure is Removed or Demolished by the Public Officer he or
she shall offer for bids and sell the structure or the materials of such
structure. The proceeds of such sale shall be credited against the cost of the
removal or demolition and, if there is any balance remaining, it shall be paid
to the parties entitled thereto after deduction of costs or judicial
proceedings, if any, including the necessary attorney’s fees incurred therein,
as determined by the court, if involved. (Ord. 1262, 2-5-2024)
9-10-17: CONFLICT OF LAWS; EFFECT OR PARTIAL INVALIDITY:
   A.   Conflicts between the provisions of this chapter and with a provision
of any zoning, building, fire, safety, or health ordinance, existing on the
effective date of this chapter, the provision shall prevail which establishes
the higher standard.
   B.   Conflicts between this chapter with a provision of any other ordinance
existing on the effective date of this chapter which establishes a lower
standard, the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to prevail and such
other laws or codes are hereby declared to be repealed to the extent that they
may be found in conflict with this chapter. (Ord. 1262, 2-5-2024)
9-10-18: GOVERNING BODY; APPEALS:
   A.   Any person, firm, or corporation considering themselves aggrieved by
the decision of the public officer and who desires to present a formal protest
to the governing body shall in writing, request a hearing before the governing
body within 10 days after receiving notice of the decision from the public
officer, as provided in Section
9-10-12 B. Such protest and request for a hearing shall be filed with the
office of the city clerk.
   B.   Upon receipt of a protest and request for a hearing, the city clerk
shall notify in writing the governing body of such appeal.
   C.   The governing body shall, within 30 days of receipt of protest and
request for a hearing, determine a date for the hearing.
   D.   Notice of the date for the hearing shall be sent to the appellant at
least 10 days before the hearing.
   E.   Except where an immediate hazard exists as described in Section
9-10-19 of this chapter, the filing of a protest and request for a hearing
before the governing body as specified in subsection (a) shall operate as a
stay of the enforcement of the public officer’s order until such time as the
governing body has reached a decision on the matter. (Ord. 1262, 2-5-2024)
9-10-19: IMMEDIATE HAZARD:
When in the opinion of the governing body any structure is in such condition as
to constitute an immediate hazard requiring immediate action to protect the
public, the public, the governing body may direct the public officer to erect
barricades or cause the property to be vacated, taken down, repaired, shored or
otherwise made safe without delay. Such action may be taken without prior
notice to or hearing of the owners, agents, lienholders and occupants. The cost
of any action under this section shall be assessed against the property as
provided in Section
9-10-16. (Ord. 1262, 2-5-2024)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
General Provisions   1
Administration   2
Applications And Procedures   3
Creation Of Zoning Districts And Official Map   4
AG Agricultural District   5
Residential Districts   6
R-1 Single-Family Residential District   6A
R-2 Two-Family Residential District   6B
R-3 Multiple-Family Residential District   6C
MHP Manufactured Home Park District   6D
Commercial Districts   7
C-2 General Commercial District   7A
C-3 Central Business District   7B
Industrial Districts   8
I-1 General Industrial District   8A
I-2 Heavy Industrial District   8B
Supplementary Use Regulations   9
Accessory Buildings And Uses   10
Sign Regulations   11
Parking And Loading Regulations   12
Permitted Downzonings   13
Nonconforming Uses And Buildings   14
Interpretations And Definitions   15
Municipal Airport Hazard Zoning   16
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title And Authority
10-1-2: Purpose And Goals
10-1-3: Relationship To Comprehensive Plan
10-1-4: Jurisdiction
10-1-5: Application Of District Regulations
10-1-6: Enforcement And Penalties
10-1-7: Zoning Of Annexed Lands
10-1-8: Vesting
10-1-9: Repeal Of Previous Regulations
10-1-10: Severability
10-1-11: Plat Required
10-1-12: Effective Date
10-1-1: TITLE AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Title: This title shall be known and cited as the SCOTT CITY ZONING
REGULATIONS.
   B.   Authority: This title is adopted under authority of Kansas Statutes
Annotated 12-741 et seq., as amended. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-1-2: PURPOSE AND GOALS:
This title is adopted to serve the following purposes:
   A.   Promote the health, safety, general welfare, morals and convenience of
the community.
   B.   Provide and maintain a high quality living environment for the
residents of Scott City and the surrounding extraterritorial area.
   C.   Lessen or avoid congestion on the public streets and highways of the
community.
   D.   Secure safety from fire and flooding to persons and avoid damage to
property.
   E.   Prevent the overcrowding of land and undue concentrations of people.
   F.   Facilitate adequate transportation, water and sewage, schools, and
other public utilities and facilities.
   G.   Promote the preservation of open space and provision of parks and
community recreation facilities.
   H.   Conserve and protect property values.
   I.   Conserve farmlands and other natural resources.
   J.   Promote the orderly growth and development of the community.
   K.   Regulate and limit the height, number of stories, and size of buildings
and other structures; the percentage of lot coverage; the size of yards, and
other open spaces.
   L.   Establish minimum requirements for off street parking, loading, and
unloading. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-1-3: RELATIONSHIP TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
   A.   The Scott City zoning regulations are intended to implement the
planning goals and policies contained in the Scott City comprehensive plan and
other planning documents and policies of the planning commission.
   B.   It is hereby acknowledged that the Scott City comprehensive plan and
amendments thereto, are the controlling instruments for changes, amendments,
and revisions of these zoning regulations. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-1-4: JURISDICTION:
   A.   These zoning regulations shall apply to all structures, land and use of
the land within the city limits of Scott City, Kansas, and the unincorporated
area within three (3) miles, known as the extraterritorial area as defined by
ordinance as adopted or amended by the city council. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-1-5: APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Interpretation And Administration: It shall be the responsibility of
the zoning enforcement officer (zoning administrator) to interpret and
administrate the rules and regulations contained in these regulations.
   B.   Application Of Regulations:
      1.   Application: The provisions of these regulations may be regarded as
the minimum requirements for the protection of public health, safety, comfort,
convenience, prosperity, and welfare. These provisions are not intended to
abrogate or annul any building permit, certificate of occupancy, variance, or
other lawful permit issued before the full force and effective date of these
regulations. Any use or occupation of land previously approved as a permitted
use shall be permitted to continue as a lawful use or occupation. These
regulations shall not extend the life or scope of any nonconforming use. See
chapter 14, "Nonconforming Uses And Buildings", of this title.
      2.   Conformance: No building, structure, or sign shall be built,
erected, constructed, remodeled, substantially repaired, or moved and no
structure or land shall be used, occupied or designed for use or occupancy
except for a use that is permitted within the zoning district of which the
structure or land is located except in conformity with all the regulations of
this title unless a variance is granted.
      3.   Uses Of Open Land: If any use of open land is established or if any
use of open land is changed to another use, such new use shall comply with all
the provisions of these regulations, unless permitted under the provisions of
chapter 14, "Nonconforming Uses And Buildings", of this title.
      4.   Overlapping Regulations: Where the conditions imposed by any
provision of this title on the use of land, buildings, or structures are more
restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other laws, ordinances,
resolutions, rules or regulations of any kind, the restrictions of this title
shall govern.
      5.   Private Agreements: The provisions of this title are not intended to
annul or otherwise interfere with any easement, covenant or private legal
agreement, except that when the regulations of this title are more restrictive,
or impose higher standards than private agreements, the regulations of this
title shall govern.
      6.   Prohibited Uses: All uses and activities not provided for or
addressed by the terms of this title shall be considered to be prohibited uses
and activities, unless the zoning administrator shall find that the use or
activity is consistent and compatible with the provisions of this title.
      7.   Exemptions: The following structures and uses are exempt from the
provisions of this title:
         a.   Structures or uses of the land having an agricultural purpose.
         b.   Railroad tracks, signals, bridges and similar facilities located
on a railroad right of way.
         c.   Public signs.
         d.   Poles, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, pipes, mains,
valves or other similar equipment for the distribution of electricity, gas or
water, or the collection of sewage or storm water operated or maintained by a
public utility. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-1-6: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   A violation of any regulation adopted in this title shall be a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for not more than six (6) months for each
offense, or by fine and imprisonment. Each day's violation shall constitute a
separate offense. In addition, the city may institute appropriate action,
including injunction and mandamus, to prevent unlawful erection, construction
or alteration of structures, use of the land, occupation of buildings,
abatement of nuisances, failure to obtain permits, sale of land for development
purposes without reference to a valid plat or refusal to obey and adhere to a
lawful order of the zoning administrator.
   B.   Any person, the value or use of whose land is or may be affected by
such violation, shall have the authority to maintain suits or actions in a
court of competent jurisdiction within the appeals period prescribed by law.
   C.   Whenever any building or structure is erected, constructed, moved,
altered, or converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land is
purposed to be used in violation of any floodplain regulation contained herein,
the city and/or the attorney general and the chief engineer of the Kansas
division of water resources of the state board of agriculture, in addition to
other remedies, may institute injunction, or other appropriate action to
prevent such violations.
   D.   Any person or agent who is given a stop work order shall be required to
pay a late charge in accord with the following schedule:
 
              New Or Relocated Principal Buildings Additions To Structures  Or
                                                    Accessory Buildings
                                                   
First offense     $150.00                           $ 75.00
Second offense    200.00                            75.00
Third offense     300.00                            200.00
Thereafter        400.00                            400.00
 
      1.   Additional Late Charges For All Structures: An additional two
hundred dollar ($200.00) fee shall be added to the initial charge if a valid
permit is not obtained within seven (7) working days after the zoning
administrator issues a stop work order. A stay of this action shall be granted
to the violator if a proper appeal is filed with the board of zoning appeals or
court of competent jurisdiction prior to the seventh workday period.
   E.   The zoning administrator and/or the designated deputy, upon finding a
violation of these regulations (or if a proposed action would constitute a
violation), shall have the power to:
      1.   Issue a notice of violation that shall specify the offense, the name
of the property owner or agent and/or occupant, the legal description of the
property, and the remedy. A reasonable time, not less than thirty (30) days,
shall be set to correct the violation, or to file an appeal.
      2.   Issue a stop work order that commands any person to immediately
cease and desist from any unlawful construction, use or alteration of any
building or land.
   F.   Whenever a violation of this title occurs or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a complaint with the zoning administrator stating
fully the facts or grounds upon which the complaint is based. The zoning
administrator shall promptly record and investigate such complaint and take
appropriate action as provided in this title.
   G.   Whenever any provision of this title is violated, the zoning
administrator shall promptly notify in writing the person(s) responsible for
the violations. The notification shall contain the nature of the violation and
any corrective orders.
   H.   The zoning administrator shall have the following remedies without
limitations:
      1.   No Action: Following any complaint, and after careful consideration,
the zoning administrator may issue a "no conflict" opinion.
      2.   Informal Contact: The zoning administrator shall have the authority
to abate the zoning violation through informal meetings or conversations.
      3.   Agreement To Abate: The zoning administrator may enter into an
agreement with a violator to abate or remedy a violation within a period not to
exceed six (6) months, unless extended by the planning commission.
      4.   Permits: The zoning administrator may refuse to issue any required
permits on tracts, parcels, or lots cited for active violations of this title.
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-1-7: ZONING OF ANNEXED LANDS:
All lands annexed to the city of Scott City shall be considered zoned AG
agricultural for sixty (60) days following the effective date of annexation.
Any owner of land within the area annexed may apply for rezoning any time
following the effective date of annexation. During the sixty (60) days
following the effective date of annexation, the planning commission shall
prepare, or cause to be prepared a zoning map of the annexed area, conduct the
necessary public hearing, and submit the same to the city council for adoption.
Upon adoption of the zoning ordinance, all zoning requirements and regulations
of the city shall take effect. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-1-8: VESTING:
   A.   Residential Development Rights: The right to construct all residential
units shall vest at the time the final plat is recorded and the first valid
permit is issued. If construction is not commenced within five (5) years of the
date a final plat is recorded, such rights shall expire and require reapproval
of the plat.
   B.   Nonresidential Development Rights: Development rights for all purposes
other than residential use shall vest upon the issuance of all valid permits
required by the city, and construction has commenced beyond the foundation or
slab installations. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-1-9: REPEAL OF PREVIOUS REGULATIONS:
The 1983 city of Scott City zoning regulations and all amendments are hereby
repealed effective from and after the date of the approval and adoption by the
city council and publication of the adopting ordinance for these zoning
regulations. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-1-10: SEVERABILITY:
Should any section, provision, or particular application of this title be
adjudged invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, it is the intent of this
title that such judgment shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this
title, and such shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-1-11: PLAT REQUIRED:
Each application for a construction or building permit shall be accompanied by
a plat or certificate of survey in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the
actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the size, shape and location of
the building to be erected and such other information as may be necessary to
provide for the enforcement of these regulations. A record of applications and
plats or certificate of survey shall be kept in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-1-12: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The provisions of this title shall become effective from and after the date of
their approval and adoption by the city council and publication of the adopting
ordinance. All zoning actions taken under prior regulations are hereby affirmed
with zoning district classifications assigned as indicated on the official
zoning map adopted with these regulations. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-2-1: Planning Commission
10-2-2: Board Of Zoning Appeals
10-2-3: Zoning Administrator
10-2-4: City Clerk
10-2-1: PLANNING COMMISSION:
   A.   Authorization: A planning commission is hereby created and appointed by
the mayor with the consent and confirmation of the city council.
   B.   Membership: There shall be seven (7) regular voting members of the
planning commission: No less than five (5) members shall be residents of the
city of Scott City, two (2) members shall be appointed who reside in the
extraterritorial zone.
   C.   Officers: A chair, a vice chair, and a secretary shall be elected by a
simple majority of the planning commission. All officers shall serve for one
year, or until their successors are elected, and may succeed themselves for
each year during their terms. The secretary may be an employee of the city.
   D.   Terms And Qualifications:
      1.   Appointment: All regular commissioners shall be appointed for terms
of three (3) years, and each may serve for additional three (3) year terms as
appointed without limitation.
      2.   Alternate Commissioners: Alternate commissioners may be appointed
for terms of one, two (2) or three (3) years.
      3.   Age Requirement: Regular and alternate planning commissioners shall
be at least eighteen (18) years of age.
      4.   Removal: Planning commissioners may be removed for cause, including,
but not limited to, failure to attend meetings, abuse of office, or serious
conflict of interest by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the city council.
      5.   Vacancy: Appointments to fill vacancies of unexpired terms shall be
made by the mayor with the consent and confirmation of the city council.
      6.   Compensation: All members of the planning commission shall serve
without pay or other compensation.
   E.   Duties Of The Planning Commission:
      1.   Comprehensive Plan: The planning commission is authorized to make or
cause to be made a comprehensive plan for the development of the city of Scott
City and any unincorporated territory lying outside of the city of Scott City,
which in the opinion of the planning commission, forms the total community of
which the city is a part. The comprehensive plan shall constitute the basis or
guide for public action to ensure coordinated and harmonious development or
redevelopment that will best promote the health, safety, morals, order,
convenience, prosperity and general welfare as well as the wise and efficient
expenditure of public funds.
      2.   Annual Review Of The Comprehensive Plan: At least once each year,
the planning commission shall review or reconsider the comprehensive plan or
any part and may propose amendments, extensions or additions to the
comprehensive plan.
      3.   Capital Improvement Program: After the adoption and certification of
the comprehensive plan, the planning commission shall review and comment on a
public improvement, public facility or public utility that is embraced within
the recommendations of the comprehensive plan. The planning commission shall
evaluate the proposed public improvement, facility or utility for conformity
with the comprehensive plan. An exception is permitted when the planning
commission has reviewed a capital improvement program and found that a specific
public improvement, public facility or public utility is in conformity with the
comprehensive plan.
      4.   Subdivision Regulations: The planning commission shall advise and
recommend to the city council adoption and amendment of regulations governing
the subdivision of land, following the adoption of a comprehensive plan. The
planning commission may establish subdivision regulations for all land located
in the city and may apply such regulations to land outside of but within three
(3) miles of the city limits. The planning commission shall determine if a
subdivision plat conforms to the provisions of the subdivision regulations. The
planning commission may either approve the plat and issue a certificate, or
notify the applicant the plat does not conform to the requirements of the
subdivision regulations.
      5.   Variances: The planning commission may grant area and bulk variances
on preliminary subdivision plats when in the opinion of the majority of the
planning commission, such variation is essential to preserve natural resources,
overcome practical difficulty, and serve the public interest.
      6.   Zoning Regulations: The planning commission shall advise and
recommend adoption and amendment of zoning regulations, following the adoption
of a comprehensive plan. The planning commission may establish zoning
regulations for all land located in the city and may apply such regulations to
land outside of but within three (3) miles of the city limits. The planning
commission shall recommend to the city council the nature and the number of
zoning districts that it deems necessary.
      7.   Evaluate Changes In Zoning Boundaries: The planning commission shall
conduct public hearings and provide a recommendation to the city council on all
proposed amendments to zoning district boundaries. This shall include
conditional or special uses.
      8.   Approval Of Site Plans: The planning commission may establish zoning
regulations that require the approval of site plans to assist in the planned
development of a site and the aesthetics of redevelopment or new development.
      9.   Planning Commission Budget: The planning commission may submit a
budget to the city council for the employment of employees and consultants for
the implementation of planning and administration of zoning and subdivision
regulations.
      10.   Annual Meeting: The planning commission shall hold an annual
meeting each year for the purpose of electing a chair, a vice chair, and a
secretary. The chair and other officers shall be elected by a simple majority
of the planning commission. All officers shall serve for one year, or until
their successors are elected, and may succeed themselves for each year during
their terms. The secretary may or may not be a member of the planning
commission.
   F.   Meetings And Conduct:
      1.   All meetings shall be conducted by the chair of the planning
commission, or in their absence, by the vice chair or secretary, or then by the
most senior member. The chair shall have the power to rule on objections and
other points of order raised by a member of the planning commission, an
applicant/agent, or member of the public hearing.
      2.   All meetings of the planning commission, other than special meetings
or work sessions, shall be held on the second Thursday of each month at six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. at the city hall. When there is no official agenda, a
meeting may be canceled at the discretion of the chair. The chair, or the vice
chair in their absence, shall have the power to call any special meetings, or
to change a meeting time or place.
      3.   Meetings shall generally be conducted in accord with "Robert's Rules
Of Order".
      4.   The chair shall have the authority to eject or cause to be ejected
any person(s) whose behavior disturbs or unreasonably interrupts the
proceedings of planning commission hearings.
   G.   Rules Of Voting And Conflict Of Interest:
      1.   The chair may vote in all official motions or elections. The chair
shall lead all discussions, and call for all votes.
      2.   All official votes shall be by simple majority of a quorum. A quorum
shall be four (4) members present.
      3.   All votes shall be "yes" or "no" by "voice" of the members; written
votes are not allowed. The chair may require reasons for the vote from each
commissioner when the magnitude of the change requested for the plan or zone
change is extensive. Abstentions from voting, as distinguished from
disqualifications, shall not be allowed. Official votes shall also be written
by the secretary or designee in the form of minutes; minutes shall be approved
at each meeting.
      4.   Any commissioner, including the chair, may disqualify him or
herself, without stating reasons, by announcing the disqualification for the
record, and leaving the table at the beginning of a public hearing. In the case
of a challenge by an applicant or member of the public, the chair shall rule on
disqualifications. Reasons for disqualification shall be, but are not limited
to, the following:
         a.   To avoid the appearance of an impropriety.
         b.   If the planning commissioner is a property owner within the
statutory distance for notification of hearing.
         c.   If the planning commissioner is a relative, employer or employee
or business partner of an applicant.
         d.   If the planning commissioner is an agent for an applicant (in a
business or legal capacity).
         e.   If the planning commissioner serves on another elected or
appointed board with an applicant.
         f.   If a planning commissioner is a constant, long term, and close
social acquaintance of an applicant.
         g.   If the planning commissioner feels that he/she cannot render a
fair and impartial judgment due to past association, hearsay, or actions of an
applicant or member of a public hearing.
         h.   If the planning commissioner is a party to ex parte contact on a
particular item of business that is subject to a public hearing.
   H.   Conduct Of Hearings:
      1.   An applicant, or an agent for the applicant, must be present to
introduce a proposal for change, except that this rule may be waived by a two-
thirds (2/3) majority vote of the planning commission. If an applicant or agent
is not present, and the rule is not waived, then the applicant shall
automatically be granted an extension until the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the planning commission. If the applicant fails to appear at the
following meeting, the matter shall be deemed void and the applicant must
reapply. If the applicant fails to attend the first regularly scheduled
hearing, they shall be assessed the full cost of public notification, including
postage, abstractor search (if necessary).
      2.   All members (or their agents) attending a public hearing shall have
the right to speak to the business at hand. The planning commission shall not
hold a "closed meeting" or executive session unless it pertains to pending
litigation. The chair may set reasonable time limits for the duration of all
discussions. At a public hearing, parties shall speak in the following order:
         a.   The planning commission chair opens the hearing by explaining the
nature of the request, its location, and the action or votes required of the
planning commission. Next, the applicant or agent introduces the proposal.
         b.   The planning commission/city attorney may ask questions to
clarify any points made by the applicant. Following this, any member of the
public may request points of clarification.
         c.   The members of the public may speak to the proposal.
         d.   A period of rebuttal shall be allowed for the applicant and those
in favor or opposition.
         e.   Final rebuttal for the applicant shall be allowed.
         f.   The chair shall officially close the public hearing phase of the
particular business at hand.
         g.   The planning commission shall debate the facts presented at the
hearing.
      3.   Following debate, the planning commission shall vote on a motion or
table the item for further consideration. Decisions of the commission shall be
based upon facts entered into the record at the public hearing phase of the
meeting, the recommendations of the zoning administrator or city attorney, the
adopted comprehensive plan, and the preservation of health, public safety, and
the general welfare.
      4.   Appropriate considerations for voting on an issue may also include
the need for the proposed change; the magnitude of the change; whether or not
the change will bring harm to established property rights, and the effective
use of land. Other considerations shall include, but are not limited to:
         a.   Demonstration of need for the change.
         b.   The character of the neighborhood.
         c.   The zoning designation of nearby properties.
         d.   The suitability of the use to which the property is now
restricted.
         e.   Length of time the subject property has remained vacant under the
current zoning designation.
         f.   Recommendation of the city staff.
         g.   Conformance of the requested change to the comprehensive plan or
other official planning polices and documents of the city to guide its growth
and development.
         h.   The relative loss or gain to the subject property owner as
compared to the relative loss of nearby property owners.
         i.   The availability and adequacy of required utilities and services
to serve the proposed use. These utilities and services include, but are not
limited to, sanitary wastewater, water, storm sewers, and electrical service,
police and fire protection, schools, parks and recreation facilities.
         j.   The extent to which the proposed use will adversely affect the
capacity or safety of the street or road network influenced by the use. Or if
the proposed use provides adequate access roads or ingress and egress to
prevent traffic hazards.
         k.   The environmental impact generated by the proposed use including,
but not limited to, loss of prime farmland, flooding problems, excessive storm
water runoff, soil erosion and sedimentation, adverse effects on water
supplies, including surface and ground waters, air pollution, noise pollution,
excessive nighttime lighting or other environmental harm.
         l.   The extent to which the proposed use will result in the
destruction, loss or damage of any natural, scenic or historic feature of
significant importance.
         m.   The ability of the applicant to satisfy any requirement (e.g.,
site plan) applicable to the specific use imposed pursuant to the zoning
regulations and other applicable ordinances.
   I.   Effect Of Voting:
      1.   Votes shall either be cast of "yes" or "no" on an issue. A majority
vote "yes" shall be deemed to mean a positive recommendation to the city
council. A majority vote "no" shall mean a negative recommendation; a tie vote
presented to the city council shall have the same meaning as "no
recommendation".
      2.   In the case of a proposed zoning amendment to the land use map or
the ordinance text, the vote of the planning commission is advisory. Upon
receiving an advisory vote, the city council may: a) approve by resolution such
recommendation, b) override the recommendation by a two-thirds (2/3) majority
vote, c) return the recommendation for study and/or a new hearing, together
with a statement which specifies the city council's reasons for refusal to
approve or disapprove. If the city council returns a recommendation, the
planning commission may resubmit the original recommendation or submit new or
amended recommendations without reconvening the public hearing. Upon receiving
the returned recommendations from the planning commission, the city council
may, by a simple majority vote, adopt, revise or amend such recommendations.
Failure to return a recommendation on the part of the planning commission shall
be considered a resubmission of the original recommendation.
      3.   If, however, a protest against such amendment, supplement or change
is filed in the office of the city clerk within fourteen (14) days after the
conclusion of the public hearing pursuant to said publication notice, duly
signed and acknowledged by twenty percent (20%) of the total area, excepting
public streets or ways, located within or without the corporate limits of Scott
City and located within two hundred feet (200') for requests within the city
and one thousand feet (1,000') within the unincorporated area of the
extraterritorial zone, of the boundaries of the property proposed to be
rezoned, such amendment shall not be passed except by at least three-fourths
(3/4) vote of all the members of the city council. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006; amd.
Ord. 1230, 1-3-2022, Ord. 1257, 5-1-2023)
10-2-2: BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS:
   A.   Creation: The planning commission as previously established by the
mayor and city council is officially designated to also serve as the board of
zoning appeals, as prescribed by Kansas Statutes Annotated 12-759, as amended.
All members of the planning commission are voting members of the board of
zoning appeals whether they reside inside or outside the city limits. The board
of zoning appeals (BZA) is hereby created to administer all zoning variances,
appeals, and exceptions, and other matters of land regulation as enumerated in
the Scott City zoning regulations.
   B.   Meetings:
      1.   All officers of the planning commission are officers of the board of
zoning appeals including the secretary. The chair shall conduct all meetings
and take all votes. Meetings shall be held at a time and place designated by
the chair of the board of zoning appeals.
      2.   Board meetings may be held separately from a planning commission
meeting or in conjunction with such a meeting wherein the planning commission
may recess a portion of its meeting to conduct business of the board and to
reconvene to continue the planning commission agenda. When a quorum is declared
present, all actions of the board including appeals, variances, and exceptions
shall be made by motion and decided by a majority vote of the members present.
      3.   All votes shall be "yes" or "no" by voice, with a taped record and
written minutes kept of each session. Abstentions shall not be allowed, but
members may disqualify themselves for cause. The secretary shall record in the
minutes the vote of each member on every question, or, if the member is absent,
such fact shall be indicated in the minutes.
      4.   All hearings before the board of zoning appeals shall be open to the
public.
      5.   The chair of the board of zoning appeals may establish, from time to
time, reasonable limitations on the length of testimony, and shall have the
power to rule on objections and other points of order raised by a board member,
an applicant, or member of the public hearing.
      6.   Whenever there are no appeals or other business to be considered at
any regular meeting, the chair may cancel such meeting by notifying each board
member.
      7.   The order of business at regular meetings shall be substantially as
follows below. Except as otherwise set out in these bylaws, parliamentary
procedure at meetings shall generally be governed by "Robert's Rules Of Order",
as amended.
         a.   Roll call.
         b.   Determination of a quorum.
         c.   Approval of the minutes.
         d.   Hearing of cases.
         e.   Communications and miscellaneous business.
         f.   Adjournment.
      8.   The following order of procedure shall generally be used for
consideration of cases before board:
         a.   The chair announces the case.
         b.   The city attorney or zoning administrator presents an overview of
the case.
         c.   The applicant or appellant shall present its case.
         d.   Citizens will be recognized to present evidence, comment and
argument in support or against the relief sought by the applicant or appellant.
         e.   City staff evidence, comments and rebuttal to presentations by
citizens.
         f.   Applicant or appellant evidence, comments and rebuttal to
presentations by citizens.
         g.   Closing arguments by applicant or appellant.
         h.   Closing arguments by the city attorney or zoning administrator.
         i.   Closing rebuttal by applicant or appellant.
         j.   The board may question participants at any point in the hearing.
         k.   Motion by a member or the chair.
         l.   Second by another member or the chair.
         m.   Discussion on the motion. The facts and reasons in support of the
motion shall be stated on the record during discussion on the motion.
         n.   Vote.
      9.   The appellant or agent must appear before the board of zoning
appeals on the appointed time and day for the meeting or hearing. Failure to
appear, unless waived by the board of zoning appeals for cause, shall result in
a dismissal of the appeal, and shall require reapplication.
      10.   The board may adjourn or table an appeal to a date certain; such
adjourned date shall be construed as a continuance of the hearing.
      11.   An appeal may be withdrawn by the appellant in writing any time
prior to the public hearing. Withdrawn applications for variances and
exceptions may be filed after six (6) months and shall be placed on the
calendar according to the date filed.
      12.   Actions of the board of zoning appeals are final orders and are not
sent to the city council for review or approval.
   C.   Powers And Responsibilities:
      1.   Appeals:
         a.   The board of zoning appeals (BZA) is hereby authorized to hear
appeals from any person or official affected by any decision of the zoning
administrator. In exercising the power of appeals, the BZA may reverse, amend,
modify or affirm any discretionary act, requirement, decision or determination
of the zoning administrator. To this end, the BZA shall have all of the powers
of the officer from whom the appeal is taken, may attach appropriate
conditions, and may issue or direct the issuance of a permit.
         b.   The appeal must be brought within thirty (30) days of the final
decision or action of the zoning administrator.
         c.   The appellant must file the proper forms provided by the city
clerk, and pay the posted appeals fee. No fee shall be refunded after a notice
of appeal is filed and published.
         d.   Notice of the appeal must be published once in the official city
newspaper, at least twenty (20) days prior to the hearing. A copy of the notice
shall be mailed to each party to the appeal.
         e.   When an appeal is filed, the action of the zoning administrator
shall be stayed pending a final decision of the board of zoning appeals.
      2.   Variances:
         a.   The board of zoning appeals is hereby authorized to issue
variances from the specific terms of the zoning regulations. A variance shall
not permit any use not permitted in a zoning district. The variance shall not
be contrary to the public interest, and where, due to special conditions, a
literal enforcement of the provisions of the regulations, in an individual
case, would not result in an unnecessary hardship, and provided that:
            (1)   The variance requested arises from such condition which is
unique to the property in question and which is not ordinarily found in the
same zone; and is not created by an action or actions of the property owner or
the applicant.
            (2)   The granting of the permit for the variance will not
adversely affect the rights of adjacent property owners or residents.
            (3)   The strict application of the provisions of the zoning
regulations of which variance is requested will constitute unnecessary hardship
upon the property owner represented in the application.
            (4)   The variance desired will not adversely affect the public
health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, or general welfare.
            (5)   Granting the variance desired will not be opposed to the
general spirit and intent of the zoning regulations.
         b.   The appellant must file the proper forms provided by the city
clerk, and pay the posted fee. No fee shall be refunded after a notice of
variance is filed and published.
         c.   Notice of the variance must be published once in the official
city newspaper, at least twenty (20) days prior to the hearing. A copy of the
notice shall be mailed to each party to the variance.
         d.   Variances from the provisions of these regulations shall be
granted by the board only in the following instances and in no others:
            (1)   To vary the applicable minimum lot area, lot width and lot
depth requirements.
            (2)   To vary the applicable bulk regulations, including maximum
height and lot coverage and minimum yard requirements.
            (3)   To vary the dimensional provisions for permitted obstructions
in required yards including fences.
            (4)   To vary the applicable number of required off street parking
spaces and the amount of off street loading requirements.
      3.   Exceptions:
         a.   The board of zoning appeals is hereby authorized to grant
exceptions to the provisions of the zoning regulations in those instances where
the board is specifically authorized to act, and only under such terms and
conditions that are enumerated in the zoning regulations.
         b.   The applicant must file the proper forms provided by the city
clerk, and pay the posted fee. No fee shall be refunded after a notice of
exception is filed and published.
         c.   Notice of the exception must be published once in the official
city newspaper, at least twenty (20) days prior to the hearing. A copy of the
notice shall be mailed to each party to the appeal.
      4.   Reconstruction Of Nonconforming Building:
         a.   The board may grant an exception to permit the reconstruction of
a nonconforming building, which has been damaged by fire, flood, wind or other
disaster to the extent that fifty percent (50%) or more of the assessed value
of the building, shall be reconstructed in a manner that is more conforming to
the provisions of these zoning regulations and does not encroach into an
easement or public right of way. In determining whether or not the exception
should be granted, the BZA must find that rebuilding the structure: 1) would
not be contrary to the public welfare or safety; 2) would constitute a personal
economic hardship to the owner; and 3) that there is no economically viable
site in the city of Scott City where the structure can be relocated.
Restoration must begin within one year after the date of the destruction and be
diligently pursued to completion.
   D.   Requirements For Applicants:
      1.   Obtain an accurate legal description of the property.
      2.   Make a scale drawing of the property; usually the recorded
subdivision plat or survey may be used for this purpose.
      3.   Complete the necessary applications on forms provided by the city
clerk and pay the required fee.
      4.   Make an appointment with the zoning administrator to review the
scale drawing. If possible, bring photos that clarify the need for the variance
or exception.
      5.   Write a statement of purpose that explains the need for the variance
or exception. Explain or clarify any extenuating circumstances that would help
the board of zoning appeals to understand the request.
      6.   Post one sign containing notice of the public hearing in a
conspicuous place on or near the property upon which application for appeal is
made. The sign shall contain the date, time, and place of the public hearing
before the board of zoning appeals.
   E.   Right Of Appeal: Any person, official or governmental agency
dissatisfied with any order, determination or action of the board of zoning
appeals may bring an action in the district court of the county to determine
the reasonableness of any action or order. Such appeals shall be filed within
thirty (30) days of the final decision of the board.
   F.   Representatives And Agents: Nothing contained in these regulations
shall be construed as prohibiting the right of any applicant or a member of a
public hearing to retain an agent to represent them before the board of zoning
appeals. Likewise, legal counsel may be used to represent any person having
business pertaining to the board of zoning appeals. All persons, and their
agents or counsels, have a right to speak at the designated time, submit
written comments for the record, make objections, note exceptions, or request
points of clarification (for the record) during public hearings. (Ord. 1067, 6-
19-2006)
10-2-3: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Appointment: The city council shall appoint an official known as the
"zoning administrator" to administer the Scott City zoning regulations. The
zoning administrator may appoint city employees as deputies to assist in
administration of the zoning regulations.
   B.   Powers And Duties Of The Zoning Administrator:
      1.   Issuance of certificate of zoning compliance. To issue or deny a
certificate of zoning compliance, which indicates that the use and physical
development of the site is in conformity with the zoning regulations.
      2.   Issuance of home occupation permit.
      3.   Issuance of sign permit.
      4.   Inspection of buildings or land. To inspect any building or land to
determine if violations of the zoning regulations have been committed or exist.
      5.   Enforcement of the zoning regulations and taking all necessary steps
to remedy any condition found in violation.
      6.   Interpretation of the official zoning map and provisions of the
zoning regulations, and offering written opinions on their meaning and
applicability, and making findings of fact, and, with the concurrence of the
city attorney, conclusions of law regarding determinations of vested rights.
      7.   The zoning administrator may issue an administrative waiver to any
required setback or yard listed in this title to adjust for practical
difficulty or grade changes. The waiver shall be no greater than ten percent
(10%) of the required distance.
      8.   The zoning administrator may use an averaging method to establish
any yard or setback in established areas to prevent excessive offsets between
new and old structures. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-2-4: CITY CLERK:
   A.   Powers And Duties Of The City Clerk:
      1.   Process all applications for changes in zoning boundaries,
conditional or special uses, and site plans, including the collection of any
fees.
      2.   Process all applications for the board of zoning appeals.
      3.   Make and keep all records required by state law or necessary and
appropriate for the administration of the zoning regulations.
      4.   Maintain the official zoning map. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
CHAPTER 3
APPLICATIONS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
10-3-1: Zoning Map Amendment
10-3-2: Procedures For Public Hearings
10-3-3: Conditional Use Application And Review
10-3-4: City Council Review Of Zoning Amendments And Conditional Uses
10-3-1: ZONING MAP AMENDMENT:
   A.   Procedures: All applications for a change to the official zoning map
shall be made on forms provided by the city clerk. The city council or planning
commission may initiate an amendment of the official zoning map.
   B.   Materials And Reviews: The following materials and procedures shall be
used to process an application for a change to the zoning map:
      1.   Proof Of Ownership: The applicant shall provide title or other
suitable proof of ownership to the subject property.
      2.   Legal Description: The applicant shall provide a correct legal
description of the subject property either in the form of a certificate of
survey or a lot and block reference to the official city map.
      3.   Sketch: The applicant shall provide a sketch of the subject property
drawn to scale that details the lot lines, existing features or building,
drives, adjacent buildings, and the current use of existing buildings. This
provision can be waived by the zoning administrator or city attorney depending
on the magnitude of the proposed change.
      4.   Supporting Material: The applicant shall submit supporting material
as requested by the zoning administrator or city attorney depending on the
magnitude of the change and the possibility of detrimental effects on
surrounding properties. Supporting materials may include, but are not limited
to:
         a.   Topography at an appropriate scale.
         b.   A certificate of survey.
         c.   Environmental assessment.
         d.   Surface water discharge analysis.
         e.   Facilities and utilities suitability analysis.
         f.   An analysis of existing wells, tanks, and other substructures.
         g.   Traffic and parking analysis.
      5.   Submission Of Materials: All materials to be submitted by the
applicant shall be given to the zoning administrator or city clerk at least
thirty (30) days in advance of a public hearing.
      6.   Fees: The applicant shall pay all fees associated with the requested
change.
      7.   City Review: After accepting a complete application, the zoning
administrator or city attorney shall review the application and analyze the
proposal for consistency with the comprehensive plan and other development
related policies and plans. The zoning administrator or city attorney may
prepare a report that summarizes the analysis and recommends approval or denial
of the proposed change. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-3-2: PROCEDURES FOR PUBLIC HEARINGS:
   A.   All recommendations for an amendment to the official zoning map
(including conditional uses) shall first be submitted to the Scott City
planning commission for recommendation. The planning commission shall conduct a
public hearing in accordance with the provisions of section
10-2-1 of this title.
   B.   For applications within the city of Scott City, the applicant shall
provide a list of the names and addresses of owners of all property situated
within two hundred feet (200') of the property lines of the subject site. This
list shall be current as of the date of submission. Persons appearing on said
list will be sent notice of the public hearing at least twenty (20) days before
the public hearing from the city attorney. If a zoning amendment to property is
adjacent to the city's limits, the area of notification of the city's action
shall be extended to at least one thousand feet (1,000') in the unincorporated
area. If requested by the zoning administrator, the applicant shall provide a
written statement detailing the nature and reasons for the requested change.
For applications within the extraterritorial area, the distance of notification
for property owners increases to one thousand feet (1,000') of the subject
site.
When the notice has been properly addressed and deposited in the mail, failure
of a party to receive such notice shall not invalidate any subsequent action
taken by the planning commission or city council.
   C.   The city clerk shall schedule the required public hearing and be
responsible for placing in the official newspaper a public notice at least
twenty (20) days prior to the date of the hearing. The notice shall include the
following:
      1.   A legal description or general description sufficient to identify
the property under consideration.
      2.   A statement regarding the proposed changes in the boundary or
classification of any zone or district or a general description of the proposed
development, subdivision, or other proposed action.
      3.   The date, time and place of the public hearing and a clear statement
that it is a public hearing at which public testimony is sought.
      4.   The notice shall include a statement that a complete legal
description is available for public inspection and shall include where such
information is available. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-3-3: CONDITIONAL USE APPLICATION AND REVIEW:
   A.   The intent of these provisions is to recognize that certain uses may be
appropriate only in a specific location. The determination of whether the
proposed use and specific location are appropriate is achieved through a
planning commission review and authorization by the city council. The purpose
of the review is to allow the planning commission to evaluate the compatibility
of the proposed use with the character of surrounding property, adequacy of
services and other factors.
   B.   Property must either be correctly zoned, or first undergo rezoning,
before the request for a conditional use review can be granted. A conditional
use review requires a public hearing that is separate from an amendment to the
zoning map. A change in zoning permits a range of uses, whereas a conditional
use authorizes only one particular use as listed in the zoning district.
   C.   A planning commission review is required when a use is listed under
"conditional uses" as contained in each zoning district.
   D.   Uses authorized under a conditional use review shall comply with all
applicable supplementary use regulations specified in chapter 9 of this title.
   E.   In order to ensure their appropriateness at a particular location,
conditions may be imposed in the approval of a conditional use. The planning
commission is authorized to stipulate such conditions and restrictions as
deemed necessary for the protection of the public interest and to secure
compliance with the criteria for review contained below.
   F.   The procedures outlined as follows shall be used for review and
consideration of a conditional use:
      1.   A written application for a special review shall be filed with the
city clerk or zoning administrator. This shall include a statement indicating
the authorizing section of the zoning regulations and sufficient evidence to
show that the use will conform to the criteria in subsection I of this section.
      2.   The applicant shall pay all filing fees associated with a review. An
application not submitted with a fee shall be determined as incomplete and
returned to the applicant.
      3.   Upon receipt of the formal application and all accompanying
material, the city clerk shall set a public hearing.
   G.   The approval of a conditional use shall lapse and become void unless
the applicant shall apply for a building permit within two (2) years of the
date of approval by the city council. Upon the written request of the property
owner and for good cause shown, the planning commission may grant a one year
extension.
   H.   Approval of a conditional use shall be deemed to authorize only the
particular use for which it is approved. A conditional use shall run with the
land.
   I.   The criteria for review of a conditional use are listed below:
      1.   The location and size of the proposed use in relation to the site
and to adjacent sites and uses of property, and the nature and intensity of
operations proposed.
      2.   Accessibility of the property to police, fire, refuse collection and
other municipal services.
      3.   Adequacy of ingress and egress to and within the site; traffic flow
and control; and the adequacy of the off street parking and loading areas.
      4.   Utilities and services, including water, sewer, drainage, gas and
electricity, with particular reference to location, availability, capacity and
compatibility.
      5.   The location, nature and height of buildings, walls, fences, and
other improvements; their relation to adjacent property and uses; and the need
for buffering or screening.
      6.   The adequacy of required yard and open space requirements and sign
provisions.
      7.   The general compatibility with adjacent properties; other properties
in the neighborhood; and the safety, health, comfort and general welfare of the
community.
      8.   The consistency of the proposed use with the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-3-4: CITY COUNCIL REVIEW OF ZONING AMENDMENTS AND CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   The city council may either approve the recommendation of the planning
commission by ordinance; or override the planning commission recommendation by
a two-thirds (2/3) majority vote of the membership of the city council.
   B.   The city council may return the planning commission recommendation for
further consideration. The planning commission may resubmit its original
recommendation with supporting reasons, or submit a new and amended
recommendation. If the planning commission fails to deliver its recommendation
to the city council following the planning commission's next regular meeting
after receipt of the city council report, the city council shall consider such
course of inaction as a resubmission of the planning commission's original
recommendation.
   C.   The applicant may request a continuance by either a written request to
the city clerk or seek a motion by the city council to grant a continuance. Any
such continuance, when requested by the applicant, shall be made to a specified
day.
   D.   An application for change in zoning or conditional use shall become
effective upon publication of the adopting ordinance by the city council. (Ord.
1067, 6-19-2006)
CHAPTER 4
CREATION OF ZONING DISTRICTS AND OFFICIAL MAP
SECTION:
10-4-1: Establishment Of Zoning Districts
10-4-2: General Requirements For All Zoning Districts
10-4-3: Zoning Map Adopted
10-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS:
The following zones are established and they may be referred to by the zone
name or by the symbol.
AG  Agricultural district
R-1 Single-family residential district
R-2 Two-family residential district
R-3 Multiple-family residential district
MHP Manufactured home park district
C-2 General commercial district
C-3 Central business district
I-1 General industrial district
I-2 Heavy industrial district
 
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-4-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   Permitted Uses: No structure shall be built, moved or structurally
altered and no structure or land shall be used, occupied or designed for use or
occupancy except for a use that is permitted within the zoning district in
which the structure or land is located or provided for otherwise in these
regulations.
   B.   Conditional Uses: No use of a structure or land that is designated as a
conditional use in any zoning district shall be established and no existing
conditional or special use shall be changed to another conditional use in such
district, unless a conditional use is approved by the planning commission as
provided for in section
10-3-3 of this title.
   C.   Multiple Buildings On Single Lots: In no case shall there be more than
one main use, building or structure on one lot, except when a single lot is
used or zoned for multi-family, commercial, or industrial purposes. In such
cases, all buildings shall collectively comply with all front, side and rear
yard requirements for the zoning district where the lot is located.
   D.   Platted Building Setback Lines: If a recorded subdivision plat imposes
a building setback line or a front yard for a lot which is different from the
minimum setback or yard required by the applicable section of these
regulations, then the minimum building setback or front yard shall be the same
as that shown on such subdivision plat; provided, that it has been recorded and
not otherwise been officially vacated.
   E.   Exemption For Existing Lots Of Record: A building permit shall be
issued to an applicant who is owner of a legally created "lot of record"
(established prior to the effective date of these regulations). The structure
must meet current setback requirements.
   F.   Undivided Parcels: If two (2) or more lots or combination of lots and
portions of lots are of record at the time of passage or amendment of this
title, and if all or part of the lots do not meet the requirements established
for lot width and area, the lands involved shall be considered to be an
undivided parcel for purposes of this title, and no portion of said parcel
shall be used or sold in a manner which diminishes compliance with lot width
and area requirements established by this title, nor shall any division of any
parcel be made which creates a lot with width or area below the requirement
stated in this title.
   G.   Setback Measurement: A front, rear, and side yard setback or building
line shall be determined by measuring the horizontal distance from the property
line to the farthest architectural projection of the building.
Covered porches and entryways, whether enclosed or unenclosed, shall be
considered as part of the main building and may project beyond the established
front yard line not to exceed five feet (5').
The "maximum height" shall mean the distance from the lowest part of the base
of a structure to the tallest point of the roof, and does not include any
accessories projecting upward from the roof.
   H.   Average Setback In Existing Residential Districts: The zoning
administrator may adjust front yard setbacks by averaging with adjacent
buildings where existing structures have established a front yard that is
greater than or less than the setbacks required by these regulations.
   I.   Additional Height: In districts where public buildings, semiprivate
buildings, public service buildings, hospitals, institutional buildings,
schools, churches and similar places of worship are permitted, two feet (2') of
additional height will be permitted for each one foot (1') of additional
building setback.
   J.   Building Height Exceptions: Flagpoles, chimneys, cooling towers,
elevator bulkheads, fire towers, church steeples, gas tanks, grain elevators,
stacks, storage towers, ornamental towers, monuments, cupolas, domes, spires,
standpipes, and other necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected above a
district height limit.
   K.   Lot Size Requirements And Bulk Regulations For Utility Facilities: None
of the following utility or communication facilities shall be required to
comply fully with the lot size requirements and bulk regulations of the zoning
district in which they are located, except as may be determined by the planning
commission where a conditional use is required in certain districts:
      1.   Communication structures (towers).
      2.   Electric and telephone substations.
      3.   Gas regulator stations.
      4.   Pumping stations.
      5.   Water towers or standpipes.
   L.   Sewer And Water Facilities: All principal structures built within the
city limits, or within three hundred feet (300') of the city limits in the
extraterritorial zone, shall be served by and connected to the city's sewer and
water system, if such facilities can be feasibly provided as may be determined
by the city council.
   M.   Dedication Of Rights Of Way And Easements: As a condition related to a
rezoning amendment or a conditional use, the dedication of additional street
rights of way; easements for utilities, drainage, access control, fire lanes,
building setback lines and other purposes; and the construction, removal or
replacement of public improvements necessary to the proper development of the
property, may be required either by platting or replatting the land according
to the city subdivision regulations or, in lieu of platting, by a legal
document effectuating such dedications and improvements. Such condition may be
required whether the property is being divided or held in single ownership. A
stated time limit not exceeding one year may be established to ensure
compliance with the above conditions during which time the effectuation of the
zoning amendment or conditional use having been approved with such conditions
by the city council shall be withheld from publication by the clerk. Failure to
comply with the conditions during the stated period shall result in making the
zoning amendment or conditional use null and void. No extension of the time
period may be granted without reapplication.
   N.   Moving Structures: No structure shall be moved into the city or from
one location to another location within the city, unless such structure shall,
when relocated, be made to conform fully to these regulations and other codes
of the city including any building codes.
   O.   Moving Manufactured/Mobile Homes: The zoning administrator is
authorized to issue a zoning permit for various types of manufactured/mobile
homes under the following provisions; except that all such homes must meet the
floodplain district requirements and none may be replaced in a floodway overlay
boundary, and no manufactured/mobile home shall be older than fifteen (15)
years:
      1.   Wherever a manufactured/mobile home is moved from a zoning lot
within a district in which it is a permitted use, another manufactured home
meeting the requirements of the district may be moved onto the lot at any time;
provided, such home shall have a permanent covering or skirting, attached or
affixed to the said structure, enclosing the base and completely surrounding
the manufactured home. A permanent covering shall consist of wood, masonite,
fiberglass, masonry or similar building materials.
      2.   In the case of a lawful, nonconforming manufactured/mobile home,
such a move must take place within ninety (90) days from the date that the
previous manufactured/mobile home was moved off the lot, otherwise such use
shall not be reestablished and, when so moved in, only single or double wide
manufactured homes are permitted as replacements which are placed on a
permanent type, enclosed perimeter foundation. In reestablishing such a home
use, any nonconforming bulk regulations shall not be increased in nonconformity
and no newly acquired land can be added to the zoning lot for placement of such
a home.
      3.   No manufactured/mobile home, or portion thereof, shall be moved onto
any lot or parcel or an existing home converted for storage or any other
purpose than for a residence in any district and no such home shall be
temporarily or permanently located in any district not otherwise permitting
such homes. These provisions do not preclude the use of prefabricated mobile
structures designed for offices in business or industrial districts, but not
manufactured homes unless specifically permitted. (Ord. 1175, 9-6-2016)
10-4-3: ZONING MAP ADOPTED:
Pursuant to a public hearing held on June 15, 2006, there is adopted by
reference, a map which includes every portion of land locating within the
corporate limits of the city and the extraterritorial zone. The location and
boundaries of the zoning districts are hereby established and shown on the
official zoning map of the city of Scott City. The zoning map together with all
explanatory matter is declared to be a part of this title. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-
2006)
CHAPTER 5
AG AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5-1: Purpose And Intent
10-5-2: Exempt Uses
10-5-3: Uses Allowed
10-5-4: Conditional Uses
10-5-5: Property Development Regulations
10-5-6: Development Requirements For Nonfarm Uses
10-5-7: Special Regulations
10-5-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The intent of this district is to preserve rural character and protect land for
production agricultural uses, the family farm, and support services, and
promote uses necessary to assist agricultural activities in Scott City and the
extraterritorial area. The district allows rural, nonfarm residential
development, but is primarily intended to contribute to the safe, efficient,
and convenient conduct of farming and animal husbandry. In addition, the
agricultural district may serve as a "holding zone" for land where future urban
expansion is possible, but not yet appropriate due to the lack of urban level
facilities and services. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-5-2: EXEMPT USES:
The following uses are exempt from all regulation except environmental sanitary
codes and floodplain location requirements:
   A.   Land which is devoted to the production of plants, animals,
horticultural products, including, but not limited to: forages; grains and feed
crops; dairy animals and dairy products; poultry and poultry products; beef
cattle, sheep, swine and horses; bees and apiary products; trees and forest
products; fruits, nuts and berries; vegetables; or nursery, floral, ornamental
and greenhouse products.
   B.   Land devoted to agricultural use shall not include those lands which
are used for recreational purposes, suburban residential acreages, rural
homesites or farm homesites and yard plots whose primary function is for
residential or recreational purposes even though such properties may produce or
maintain some of those plants or animal listed above. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-5-3: USES ALLOWED:
The following uses shall be permitted within the AG agricultural district:
Agriculture and livestock research facilities.
Bed and breakfast enterprise.
Cemeteries.
Child or adult care homes for six (6) persons or less, subject to registration
by the state of Kansas.
Club or lodge.
Congregate housing (limited to state of Kansas preempted categories for
disabled).
Conversion or readapting of an existing building for use as an accessory
residence or other uses approved by review by the planning commission. Use must
have been constructed prior to the effective date hereof.
Dwelling unit(s) for members of the extended farm family or farm employees.
Electric and telephone substations and distributions centers.
Exploration and extraction of oil and gas.
Federal, state, municipal, county, and township uses and structures.
Gas regulator stations.
Home occupations, subject to the provisions of section
10-9-6 of this title.
Libraries or museums.
Parks and recreation facilities, limited to sports complex, golf courses,
driving ranges, tennis, clubhouses, and archery.
Place of workshop and customary accessory residential use.
Public and private schools.
Public water and sewer service district facilities.
Pumping stations.
Residentially designed manufactured homes, subject to the provisions of chapter
9, "Supplementary Use Regulations", of this title.
Retreats; nonprofit, common ownership camps and congregate facilities.
Sale of agricultural produce in roadside stands; farmers' and craft market.
Shops for welding and farm machinery repair, but does not include general auto
repair, body or detailing shops.
Shops, no larger than one thousand (1,000) square feet, for woodworking and
cabinetry, crafts, pottery; antiques; gunsmith; metal polishing and
restoration; upholstery; bait and hunting supplies and similar uses. Operation
is limited to the resident family and one employee.
Single-family, nonfarm, dwelling units.
Temporary construction offices; storage, and batch asphalt or concrete mixing
facilities for a period of up to one year (renewable for additional year).
Uses or structures accessory to a principal use, subject to the provisions of
chapter 10, "Accessory Buildings And Uses", of this title.
Veterinary clinic and veterinary supplies.
Water standpipes.
Uses, which in the opinion of the zoning administrator are similar in nature to
the above listed uses. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-5-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted subject to procedures listed in section
10-3-3 of this title:
Airport and aviation field; crop spraying facility.
Childcare for seven (7) persons or more. Included in this category are the
following types of daycare operations as defined by the state of Kansas: family
daycare homes, licensed; group daycare homes; childcare centers and preschools.
Commercial sale and storage of agricultural fuels, feeds, fertilizers,
pesticides, and herbicides; fuels - bulk storage.
Communication towers greater than one hundred feet (100') in height, subject to
the provisions of section
10-9-3 of this title.
Consignment auction facilities.
Construction equipment yards and machinery storage.
Correctional facility, public or private.
Farm implement and equipment, automobile, motor vehicle and truck sales and
service.
Flea markets and open air used goods sales.
Kennels (5 or more animals) for breeding, boarding and/or sale.
Livestock sales facilities; rodeo or fairgrounds.
Private construction debris landfills (requires state of Kansas permit).
Quarries; gravel extraction; mining.
Recreation facilities: gun clubs; skeet and sporting clay ranges; shooting
ranges; controlled wildlife shooting areas.
Recycling and salvage facilities, subject to the provisions of section
 10-9-7 of this title.
Sanitary landfill, subject to state requirements.
Travel camper and recreational vehicle parks including accessory commercial and
residential uses. (Ord. 1164, 4-6-2015)
10-5-5: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
The following regulations shall apply to all nonfarm sites in the AG
agricultural district:
Property Development Regulations, AG Agricultural District
Development Description District Requirements
Property Development Regulations, AG Agricultural District
Development Description         District Requirements
Maximum building height         35 feet for dwelling units
Minimum lot area:                
 Lot with individual well      5 acres
 Lot with public water service 3 acres
Minimum lot frontage            330 feet
Minimum lot depth               330 feet
Minimum front yard:              
 City street                   40 feet from ROW
 County/township road          80 feet from ROW
 State or federal highway      80 feet from ROW
Minimum side yard:               
 Principal structure           30 feet
 Accessory use                 20 feet
Minimum rear yard               35 feet
 
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-5-6: DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR NONFARM USES:
All new nonfarm uses established after the effective date hereof shall comply
with the following requirements:
   A.   All scrap materials, inoperative vehicles, scrap machinery, appliances,
debris, or other similar accumulated materials must be stored in a defined area
behind a screening fence. At a minimum, the screening fence must be constructed
of solid wood or masonry, vinyl, or a metal link fence with wooden slats, or
similar fence material.
   B.   All drives and parking areas shall be compacted and surfaced with
asphalt, concrete, or a minimum of five inches (5") of gravel.
   C.   All parking and/or paved or graveled spaces must be separated from a
public right of way by a minimum twelve foot (12') "green area" - either seeded
or landscaped unless exempted by the planning commission.
   D.   All outdoor lighting serving commercial shall be directionally shaded
or directed away from property used for a residential purpose.
   E.   When a nonresidential use is established adjacent to property used for
residential purposes the planning commission may require a screening barrier.
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-5-7: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
The following special regulations shall apply to each site in the AG
agricultural district.
   A.   On Site Sewage Disposal Systems: All uses shall provide an on site
sewer treatment system that complies with the requirements of the Scott County
sanitary code.
   B.   Legally Established Property Development Regulations:
      1.   The zoning administrator is hereby empowered to issue building
permits to new construction on lots of record created before the effective date
hereof. All permits shall adhere to the original lot size and yard
requirements. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Purpose And Intent
10-6A-2: Uses Allowed
10-6A-3: Conditional Uses
10-6A-4: Property Development Regulations
10-6A-5: Special Regulations
10-6A-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The intent of this district is to encourage single-family, detached residential
dwellings together with school sites, churches, civic buildings, parks, and
other public uses to create stable neighborhoods. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-6A-2: USES ALLOWED:
The following uses shall be permitted within the R-1 single- family residential
district:
Accessory structures and uses, subject to the provisions of chapter 10 of this
title.
Bed and breakfast enterprise.
Child or adult daycare homes for six (6) persons or less, subject to
registration by the state of Kansas.
Congregate housing (limited to state preempted categories for disabled).
Home occupations, subject to the provisions of chapter 9, "Supplementary Use
Regulations", of this title.
Hospitals; libraries; community centers.
Places of worship and customary accessory residential use.
Public and private park and recreation facilities, including a golf course and
ancillary uses such as clubhouse, tennis courts, storage sheds, and driving
range.
Public and private schools.
Public utilities and facilities and governmental offices, including facilities
for public water and sewer districts.
Single-family dwellings, including residential design manufactured homes.
Residential design manufactured homes are subject to the provisions of chapter
9, "Supplementary Use Regulations", of this title.
Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, provided the
buildings are immediately adjacent to the construction work and shall be
removed upon completion or abandonment of the construction work. Basements may
not be occupied for residential purposes until the building is completed.
Uses, which in the opinion of the zoning administrator are similar in nature to
the above listed uses. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-6A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted subject to procedures listed in section
10-3-3 of this title:
Adult care homes. Included in this category are the following types of
operations as defined by the state of Kansas 1 : nursing facility, nursing
facility for mental health, intermediate care facility for the mentally
retarded, assisted living facility, residential healthcare facility, boarding
care home and adult daycare facility.
Airport.
Boarding house.
Cemeteries.
Childcare for seven (7) persons or more. Included in this category are the
following types of daycare operations as defined by the state of Kansas: family
daycare homes, licensed; group daycare homes; childcare centers and preschools
2 .
Club or lodge.
Communication towers and antennas sixty feet (60') or more in height, subject
to the provisions of chapter 9, "Supplementary Use Regulations", of this title.
Funeral homes.
Parking, public and private, on lots adjacent, contiguous or across the alley
from the subject property, providing said parking lot not be extended beyond
three hundred feet (300') from the structure the parking lot is intended to
serve. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. KSA 39-923.
2 2. KSA 65-517; KAR 28-4-113, 28-4-420.
10-6A-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
Property Development Regulations, R-1
Maximum building height    35 feet
Minimum lot area           9,000 square feet
Minimum front yard setback 30 feet
Minimum side yard setback  10 feet on each side
Minimum rear yard setback  30 feet or 20 percent of lot depth, whichever amount
                           is smaller
                           A side yard on the street side of not less than 15
Corner lot setbacks        feet, or the established front yard setback of any
                           neighboring residential structure fronting on the
                           side street whichever is greater
Minimum lot depth          100 feet
Minimum lot width          70 feet
Percentage of lot coverage 40 percent
 
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-6A-5: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   A lot of record or tract which is less than nine thousand (9,000)
square feet in area or less than the minimum seventy foot (70') lot width, and
its boundary lines, along their entire length, touched lands under other
ownership on the effective date hereof and have not since been changed, such
parcel of land may be used for a single-family dwelling, provided said building
coverage shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot.
   B.   Storage or use of accessory uses such as boats, boat trailers, camper
trailers, jet skis, and other similar recreational vehicles up to a maximum of
three (3) such uses or devices is allowed, provided said uses are located
within required rear yards or within established side yards. Such uses shall
not include the outdoor storage or parking of commercial trucks or buses which
exceed a three (3) ton manufacturer's rating hauling capacity. (Ord. 1067, 6-
19-2006)
ARTICLE B. R-2 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Purpose And Intent
10-6B-2: Uses Allowed
10-6B-3: Conditional Uses
10-6B-4: Property Development Regulations
10-6B-5: Special Regulations
10-6B-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The intent of this district is to encourage the development of single-family
homes on smaller lots, allow for two-family dwellings, and accommodate the
mixing of these housing types, along with community facilities in a manner that
will encourage a stable residential neighborhood. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-6B-2: USES ALLOWED:
The following uses shall be permitted within the R-2 two-family residential
district:
All uses permitted in R-1 single-family residential district, section
10-6A-2, "Uses Allowed", of this chapter.
Boarding house.
Two-family dwellings or duplex. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-6B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted subject to procedures listed in section
10-3-3 of this title:
All uses permitted in R-1 single-family residential district, section
10-6A-3, "Conditional Uses", of this chapter.
Multiple-family uses.
Offices for professional services limited to attorney, medical, real estate,
architect, engineer, financial consultant, tax preparation and similar
services. All nonresidential services in the R-2 district must incorporate a
"residential type design". At a minimum, a residential type design means: a)
pitched roof b) masonry, glass, vinyl, or wood siding materials c) concrete or
asphalt parking areas. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-6B-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
Property Development Regulations, R-2
Maximum building height    35 feet
Minimum lot area:
   Single-family structu7,000 square feet
   Two-family structure 3,500 square feet per family
Minimum front yard setback 30 feet
Minimum side yard setback  8 feet
Minimum rear yard setback  25 feet for principal structures
                           A side yard on the street side of not less than 15
Corner lot setbacks        feet, or the established front yard setback of any
                           neighboring residential structure fronting on the
                           side street, whichever is greater
Minimum lot depth          100 feet
Minimum lot width          70 feet
Percentage of lot coverage 40 percent
 
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-6B-5: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lots Of Record: A single lot of record which is less than seven
thousand (7,000) square feet in area, and was recorded prior to the effective
date hereof, may be used only for single- family dwelling purposes, or for any
other nondwelling use permitted in this district, provided said building
coverage shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot.
   B.   Alleys: When an alley exists structures shall be located five feet (5')
from the alley right of way, except for garages with access to an alley which
requires a ten foot (10') setback from the rear lot line, unless exempted by
the zoning administrator. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
ARTICLE C. R-3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6C-1: Purpose And Intent
10-6C-2: Uses Allowed
10-6C-3: Conditional Uses
10-6C-4: Property Development Regulations
10-6C-5: Special Regulations
10-6C-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The intent of this district is to allow the placement of compatible single-
family, two-family, apartments, manufactured homes, and community facilities.
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-6C-2: USES ALLOWED:
The following uses shall be permitted within the R-3 multiple- family
residential district:
All uses permitted in R-2 two-family residential district, section
10-6B-2, "Uses Allowed", of this chapter.
Manufactured homes, subject to section
10-6C-5, "Special Regulations", of this article.
Multiple-family dwellings. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-6C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted subject to procedures listed in section
10-3-3 of this title:
All uses permitted in R-2 two-family residential district, section
10-6B-3, "Conditional Uses", of this chapter. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-6C-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
Property Development Regulations, R-3
Maximum building height    45 feet
Minimum lot area:
   Single-family structu6,000 square feet
   Two-family structure 6,000 square feet (3,000 square feet per family)
                           6,000 square feet (1,500 square feet per dwelling
   Multi-family structurunit), except this regulation shall not apply to
                           dormitories or rooming houses where no cooking is
                           done in individual rooms or apartments
Minimum front yard setback 30 feet
Minimum side yard setback  6 feet
Minimum rear yard setback  25 feet
                           A side yard on the street side of not less than 15
Corner lot setbacks        feet, or the established front yard setback of any
                           neighboring residential structure fronting on the
                           side street, whichever is greater
Minimum lot depth          100 feet
Minimum lot width          60 feet
Percentage of lot coverage 40 percent
 
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-6C-5: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lots Of Record: A single lot of record which is less than six thousand
(6,000) square feet in area, and was recorded prior to the effective date
hereof, may be used only for single-family dwelling purposes or for other
nondwelling uses, provided said building coverage shall not exceed forty
percent (40%) of the area of the lot.
   B.   Placement: A manufactured home may be placed on any lot of record
located in the R-3 multiple-family residential district, provided no
manufactured home/mobile home shall be older than fifteen (15) years:
      1.   Minimum Square Feet: A manufactured home shall be provided a minimum
of three thousand (3,000) square feet. Said lot can be of any shape,
description or dimension so long as the minimum footage requirements are met.
One or more lots or a portion of lots, or any combination may be used to meet
the minimum square foot requirements.
      2.   Lot With Dwelling Unit: A manufactured home may be approved on a lot
which contains a dwelling unit, provided said inclusion of manufactured home
does not reduce the existing lot below minimum requirements for the said
district. (Note: A minimum 6,000 square feet is required for a single-family
structure, which means a lot shall have a minimum 9,000 square feet before the
landowner can locate a manufactured home adjacent to a single-family
structure.)
         a.   Each manufactured home may have a shared driveway, if reviewed
and approved by the planning commission.
         b.   Each manufactured home lot created in the R-3 district shall
submit a certificate of survey to the zoning administrator, subject to the lot
split provisions in the subdivision regulations.
      3.   Covering Or Skirting: A manufactured home shall have a permanent
covering or skirting, attached or affixed to said structure, enclosing the base
and completely surrounding the manufactured home. A permanent covering shall
consist of wood, Masonite, fiberglass, masonry or similar building materials.
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
ARTICLE D. MHP MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6D-1: Purpose And Intent
10-6D-2: Uses Allowed
10-6D-3: Conditional Uses
10-6D-4: Property Development Regulations
10-6D-5: Use Limitations
10-6D-6: Application Requirements
10-6D-7: Responsibilities Of Park Management
10-6D-8: Responsibilities Of Occupants
10-6D-9: Permits To Construct Or Extend
10-6D-10: License To Operate A Manufactured Home Park
10-6D-11: Appeals To Board Of Zoning Appeals
10-6D-12: Conditions For Holding And Granting A License
10-6D-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
This district provides medium density manufactured home park development
compatible with the character of the surrounding neighborhood. Manufactured
home parks should be located in areas where services and amenities are
available such as those found in conventional residential areas. (Ord. 1067, 6-
19-2006)
10-6D-2: USES ALLOWED:
The following uses shall be permitted within the MHP manufactured home park
district:
Accessory structures and uses, subject to the provisions of chapter 10 of this
title.
Buildings and structures used for storm shelters, community buildings, storage
areas, laundry, garages and similar uses.
Child or adult daycare homes for six (6) persons or less, subject to
registration by the state of Kansas.
Manufactured or mobile homes, either single or double wide, but this shall not
be construed as motorized recreation vehicles, recreation trailers, or campers.
Public utilities and facilities; governmental office(s) and storage facilities;
public water and sewer service district facilities.
Residential design manufactured homes.
Single-family residential units for management or other park purposes. (Ord.
1067, 6-19-2006)
10-6D-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted subject to procedures listed in section
10-3-3 of this title:
Childcare for seven (7) persons or more. Included in this category are the
following types of daycare operations as defined by the state of Kansas: family
daycare homes, licensed; group daycare homes; childcare centers and preschools
1 .
Retail and personal services for the convenience of park residents. (Ord. 1067,
6-19-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. KSA 65-517; KAR 28-4-113, 28-4-420.
10-6D-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
Manufactured Homes Area Requirements
 Side To Side End To End Front Yard From Curb Side Yard From Curb
Manufactured Homes Area Requirements
                  Side To Side End To End Front Yard From Side Yard From Curb
                                           Curb
Singlewide:                                              
   14' x 60' or 18 feet      13 feet    22 feet         10 feet
less
   14' x 60' or 18 feet      13 feet    22 feet         10 feet
more
Doublewide:                                              
   20' x 60' or 18 feet      13 feet    22 feet         10 feet
less
   20' x 60' or 18 feet      13 feet    22 feet         10 feet
more
No structure may be placed closer than 8 feet to the park lot line; setbacks
and separations may be modified by site plan review.
 
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-6D-5: USE LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Each manufactured home park shall be designed in accordance with the
following minimum standards:
      1.   Minimum Design Standards:
         a.   The park shall be located on a well drained site, properly graded
to ensure rapid storm drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water.
         b.   Manufactured home parks hereafter approved shall have a maximum
density of eight (8) manufactured homes per gross acre, unless waived by the
planning commission.
         c.   Each manufactured home space shall be at least fifty feet (50')
wide and be clearly defined, unless waived by the planning commission.
         d.   All manufactured home spaces shall front upon a private roadway
of not less than twenty five feet (25') in width, including curbs on each side;
provided, however, that no on street parking is permitted. If parallel parking
is permitted on one side of the street, the width shall be increased to thirty
feet (30'); and if parallel parking is permitted on both sides of the street,
the width shall be increased to thirty six feet (36'). All roadways shall have
unobstructed access to a public street.
         e.   Each manufactured home space shall provide for two (2) off street
parking spaces. Each space shall have a minimum dimension of ten feet by twenty
feet (10' x 20').
         f.   All roadways, parking spaces, and sidewalks within the
manufactured home park shall be of all weather surfacing and shall be
adequately lighted at night, unless waived by the planning commission. Parking
spaces shall be located adjacent to the street frontage.
         g.   A community building may be provided which may include recreation
facilities, laundry facilities, and other similar uses.
         h.   The perimeter of all manufactured homes shall be fully skirted.
         i.   Storm shelters shall be required, large enough to accommodate all
of the residents.
         j.   Sidewalks shall be required on one side of all streets, unless
waived by the planning commission.
         k.   Landscaping shall be shown on the development plan.
         l.   All roadways shall meet the design standards for city streets.
         m.   A building permit for the park shall be obtained before moving a
manufactured home into an MHP district.
      2.   Water Supply Standards:
         a.   Water shall be supplied to the park by a public water system.
         b.   The size, location and installation of water lines shall be in
accordance with the requirements of the codes of the city.
         c.   Individual water service connections shall be provided at each
manufactured home space.
      3.   Sewage Disposal: An adequate and environmentally safe sewer system
shall be installed in each park. The system shall be a public facility capable
of handling the projected park occupancy. The system shall be designed
according to the regulations of the Kansas department of health and environment
and approved by the county sanitarian.
      4.   Tie Downs And Ground Anchors: All manufactured homes shall be
secured to the ground by tie downs and ground anchors in accordance with the
manufactured home and recreational vehicle code, Kansas Statutes Annotated 75-
1211 to 75-1234, as amended.
      5.   Electrical: Each manufactured home space shall be provided with an
individual electrical outlet supply, a disconnecting device, and overcurrent
protective equipment that shall be installed in accordance with the building
codes of the city.
      6.   Natural Gas: All parks using natural gas shall be equipped with
approved manual and breakaway connections with automatic shutoff value
installed upstream of the gas outlet.
All parks using liquefied gas systems shall be provided with safety devices to
relieve excessive pressure; all storage bottles or tanks shall be fastened to
prevent accidental overturning. No LNG vessel shall be stored underneath the
manufactured home.
      7.   Refuse And Garbage Handling: All refuse shall be stored in flytight,
watertight, rodentproof containers. Containers shall be provided in sufficient
number and capacity to properly store all refuse.
      8.   Blocking: All manufactured homes shall be blocked at a maximum of
ten foot (10') centers around the perimeter of each manufactured home in
accordance with the manufactured home and recreational vehicle code, Kansas
Statutes Annotated 75-1211 to 75-1234, as amended.
      9.   Pad Requirements: Pads shall be a flexible surface with a minimum of
five inch (5") thick gravel, stone or compacted earth, treated to discourage
plant growth, constructed to discharge water and edged to prohibit fraying or
spreading of surfacing materials. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-6D-6: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   An applicant for MHP manufactured home park district shall prepare a
preliminary manufactured home park plan, drawn to a scale of not less than one
inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), and ten (10) copies of said plan
shall be submitted to the planning commission for its review and
recommendations. Said plan shall be designed in accordance with the minimum
design standards herein and shall have contours shown at two foot (2')
intervals.
   B.   Upon approval of the preliminary manufactured home park plan by the
planning commission, the applicant shall prepare and submit a final plan that
shall incorporate any changes or alterations requested. The final plan and the
planning commission recommendation shall be forwarded to the governing body for
its review and final action.
   C.   Any substantial deviation from the approved plan, as determined by the
zoning administrator, shall constitute a violation of these regulations.
Changes in plans shall be resubmitted for reconsideration and approval by the
planning commission and governing body prior to the occupancy of the
manufactured home park. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-6D-7: RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARK MANAGEMENT:
   A.   To notify all occupants of the park's rules and regulations.
   B.   To comply with all zoning regulations governing mobile home parks.
   C.   To provide for the required storm shelter and to maintain such
structure in good condition, free from rodents and insects, and to assure that
it is open and accessible to the residents.
   D.   The park manager shall maintain a register of all current residents
identified by lot number; lot numbers and addresses shall be prominently
displayed on each home.
   E.   The park manager shall notify the zoning administrator in writing of
individual violations of these regulations. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-6D-8: RESPONSIBILITIES OF OCCUPANTS:
   A.   To maintain lots in good order, free from debris, inoperative machines
or vehicles.
   B.   To abide by park management rules. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-6D-9: PERMITS TO CONSTRUCT OR EXTEND:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter, or extend a
manufactured home park unless the owner holds a valid permit and site plan
approval. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-6D-10: LICENSE TO OPERATE A MANUFACTURED HOME PARK:
   A.   Hereafter, it shall be unlawful for any person or firm to operate a
manufactured home park unless a valid permit has been issued annually by the
zoning administrator. The fee for such permit is published in the schedule of
fees.
   B.   The charge for a late application for a license (25 days or more after
the annual license is due) shall be an additional twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   C.   The zoning administrator shall refuse to issue a license to a park that
is in violation of these regulations (except for previously legally conforming
uses). The reason for the refusal shall be put in writing and sent to the park
owner and operator.
   D.   The owner/operator shall have sixty (60) days to either appeal to the
board of zoning appeals or comply with an order of the zoning administrator. If
the violations are not resolved after the sixty (60) day period, the zoning
administrator shall seek a court order restraining the owner/operator from
further operation of the park.
   E.   The zoning administrator is hereby empowered to make such inspections
as necessary to enforce these regulations at reasonable hours without prior
notice to the park owner/operator.
   F.   The board of zoning appeals is hereby empowered to suspend and/or
revoke the operating license of any manufactured home park that fails to comply
with a valid enforcement order. The board shall hold a special hearing,
following notification to the park owner, to consider suspension/revocation
orders. The board shall have thirty (30) days to render a final decision and
shall state in writing the reasons for its action(s). (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-6D-11: APPEALS TO BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS:
   A.   The board of zoning appeals is hereby empowered to hear appeals from
and grant exceptions to owners of manufactured home parks that have been
refused a license by the zoning administrator. The board of zoning appeals may
uphold, reverse, modify or grant exceptions to the ruling of the zoning
administrator if:
      1.   The requested modification does not in any way endanger the health,
safety or welfare of the park residents or neighbors;
      2.   The requested modification must arise from a physical necessity and
must constitute a hardship greater than a mere inconvenience to the owner.
All applications to the board of zoning appeals shall be made in writing and
set forth the reasons why the requested modification or exception is necessary.
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-6D-12: CONDITIONS FOR HOLDING AND GRANTING A LICENSE:
   A.   All MHP manufactured home parks shall be platted as a single, distinct
lot or tract and continue to be held as a single ownership: i.e., a
corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, or limited liability company.
   B.   All MHP manufactured home parks shall be constructed with, and continue
to remain under, unified street systems, utilities, play areas, and common
lands. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
CHAPTER 7
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. C-2 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Purpose And Intent
10-7A-2: Uses Allowed
10-7A-3: Conditional Uses
10-7A-4: Property Development Regulations
10-7A-5: Site Plan Review And Appearance Regulations
10-7A-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The C-2 general commercial district is intended to allow a broad range of
commercial facilities, government services, office uses, and institutional
uses, which are primarily intended to provide personal services, goods and
businesses to serve the community at large that do not require a central
location downtown, but do require a location easily accessible to downtown
shoppers. The district also provides for those establishments offering
accommodations, supplies, or services to motorist and for certain specialized
retail outlets and repair facilities, storage facilities, and trades, which
because of the nature of their operation, commonly generate traffic and
activity not compatible with downtown commercial district activities.
Typically, these types of uses are located near or along major transportation
corridors. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-7A-2: USES ALLOWED:
The following uses shall be permitted within the C-2 general commercial
district:
Agricultural supplies and equipment.
Amusement places.
Antique shops and stores, provided all merchandise is displayed and sold inside
a building.
Apartments constructed in the second floor or above.
Apparel and accessory.
Armory.
Art galleries.
Artist studio.
Auditorium and similar places of public assembly.
Auto repair, except auto machinery, painting, and body repair shops.
Auto sales.
Auto supplies.
Automated teller machines (ATMs).
Bakery and pastry.
Banks and other savings and lending institutions, including drive-through
facilities.
Barbers, hair styling and similar personal services.
Bicycle sales and service.
Books and stationery.
Bowling alleys.
Bus or cab terminal.
Business and technical schools, including, but not limited to, photography,
music, and dancing.
Business supply sales, services and repair.
Camper trailer sales and service.
Car wash facility.
Carpenter and cabinet shops employing five (5) persons or less.
Carpeting and floor covering.
Chiropractor clinic.
Church or place of worship.
Clothing and costume rental.
Clubs or lodges.
Commercial printing and publishing.
Commercial recreation uses.
Computer sales and service.
Consumer repair services, including, but not limited to, radio, television,
computer, furniture, household appliances, etc.
Convenience stores, with or without gasoline sales.
County courthouse.
Custom dressmaking, furrier, millinery and tailor shops employing five (5)
persons or less.
Delicatessens and catering establishments.
Department stores.
Drugstores and prescription.
Dry cleaning and laundry establishments.
Equipment sales and rental, excluding heavy equipment.
Exterminator.
Farm implement sales and service.
Farmers'/produce markets.
Florist and gift shops.
Food storage lockers.
Funeral homes.
Furniture and home furnishing.
Government administration buildings.
Grocery stores (including retail meat markets and produce stores).
Hardware.
Health and fitness clubs.
Hobby, stamp, and coin.
Home lighting and fixtures.
Hotels and motels.
Interior decorator.
Jewelry and metal craft.
Landscape and horticultural services.
Laundry and launderettes.
Leather goods and luggage.
Library and museums.
Lock and key.
Lumberyard.
Mail order catalog.
Manufactured home sales and service.
Massage therapist.
Medical and orthopedic appliance.
Medical, dental and health clinics.
Microbrewery.
Miniature golf course and driving ranges.
Museums.
Music instrument sales and repair.
Music studios.
Newspaper offices and publishing.
Office supply and equipment.
Offices.
Optician and optometrists.
Package liquor stores.
Paint and wallpaper.
Pawnshops.
Pet shops.
Photographic equipment and supply.
Picture frame shops.
Plumbing shops employing five (5) persons or less.
Post office.
Private clubs, fraternities, sororities and lodges.
Public safety services, including, but not limited to, police, fire, EMS.
Public utilities and facilities.
Publicly owned and operated community buildings or meeting facilities.
Radio and television broadcast studios.
Restaurants, including drive-through.
Schools and other educational facilities.
Self-service laundries.
Self-storage warehouse or facilities.
Service station.
Sewing machine sales and repair.
Sheet metal shops employing five (5) persons or less.
Shoe repair and sales.
Sporting and athletic goods.
Tailor.
Taverns.
Taxi and bus passenger services.
Taxidermist.
Theaters.
Tire sales and service.
Toy and hobby stores.
Variety stores.
Veterinary clinics, provided the establishment and runs are completely enclosed
in a building.
Video arcades.
Video rental.
Watch sales and repair.
Wholesale establishment.
Accessory uses customarily incidental to the above uses.
Uses, which in the opinion of the zoning administrator are similar in nature to
the above listed uses. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-7A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted, subject to procedures listed in section
10-3-3 of this title:
Adult care homes. Included in this category are the following types of
operations as defined by the state of Kansas: nursing facility, nursing
facility for mental health, intermediate care facility for the mentally
retarded, assisted living facility, residential healthcare facility, boarding
care home and adult daycare facility.
Adult uses, subject to the provisions of chapter 9, "Supplementary Use
Regulations", of this title.
Auto machinery and body repair shops.
Automobile painting shop.
Communication towers one hundred feet (100') or greater in height, subject to
the provisions of chapter 9, "Supplementary Use Regulations", of this title.
Construction equipment and machinery storage.
Contractor's office and equipment storage yard, except heavy construction.
Household recycling center or collection stations.
Meat processing facilities.
Mobile home park.
Sale and storage of agricultural fuels, feeds, fertilizers, pesticides and
herbicides.
Trash, refuse service.
Travel trailer or RV camps.
Welding shops. (Ord. 1176, 10-3-2016)
10-7A-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
Property Development Regulations, C-2
Maximum building height    45 feet
Minimum lot area:           
 Commercial               No requirements for commercial uses
 Apartments               1,500 square feet of lot area for each apartment
                           No front yard setback is required except as required
Minimum front yard setback for arterial or collector streets (see section
                           10-9-2 of this title)
                           No side yard shall be required, except where such
                           side yard is adjacent to a dwelling district zone,
Minimum side yard setback  in which case there shall be required 10 feet of
                           side yard on the side of the lot which abuts the
                           residential district zone, or except where a side
                           yard is required for fire regulations
                           No rear yard shall be required except where such
Minimum rear yard setback  rear yard is adjacent to an area zoned for dwelling
                           purposes, in which case there shall be required 15
                           feet of rear yard
 
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-7A-5: SITE PLAN REVIEW AND APPEARANCE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Plans Approved: Plans for the erection or structural alteration of any
business use dependent on vehicles entering into the business site or parking
lot shall be approved by the planning commission. The planning commission may
require such changes in relation to yards, setbacks, location of curb cuts,
width of drives, location of signs and accessory uses and buildings and
construction of buildings as it may deem best suited to ensure safety, to
minimize traffic difficulties and to safeguard adjacent properties.
      1.   The planning commission may make changes or modifications at the
time of reviewing a request for rezoning, conditional use or the zoning
administrator may bring an application for a building permit before the
planning commission for review and modifications.
   B.   Commercial Businesses: If in the opinion of the city attorney or zoning
administrator, a commercial business has the potential to create issues of
public safety and/or adverse impact, the planning commission may review traffic
and parking plans for new commercial business containing five thousand (5,000)
square feet or more or on a site one-third (1/3) acre or more.
   C.   Landscape And Buffering: The planning commission may require additional
landscape materials, open space buffering, and/or screening materials for all
buildings that abut an area zoned for residence.
   D.   Storage And Screening: Scrap materials, nonoperative motor vehicles or
machinery, disassembled machinery, debris, solid waste containers, construction
materials or equipment, and used machinery parts must be stored within a
defined area behind a screening fence. The planning commission is authorized to
grant waivers when unusual conditions prevent storage and screening. (Ord.
1067, 6-19-2006)
ARTICLE B. C-3 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7B-1: Purpose And Intent
10-7B-2: Uses Allowed
10-7B-3: Conditional Uses
10-7B-4: Property Development Regulations
10-7B-5: Site Plan Review And Appearance Regulations
10-7B-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The C-3 central business district is intended for the purpose of grouping
retail merchandising activities into a concentrated area serving the general
shopping needs of the trade area. Principal permitted uses include department
stores, apparel stores, general retail sales and services, and similar uses.
The grouping is intended to strengthen the business level of the central
business activity. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-7B-2: USES ALLOWED:
The following uses shall be permitted within the C-3 central business district:
Uses allowed in section
10-7A-2 of this chapter, C-2 general commercial district allowed uses, except
the following uses:
Armory.
Field crops, nurseries, tree crops and truck gardens.
Wholesale establishments.
Accessory uses customarily incidental to the above uses.
Uses, which in the opinion of the zoning administrator are similar in nature to
the above listed uses. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-7B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted subject to the procedures listed in section
10-3-3 of this title:
Uses allowed in section
10-7A-3 of this chapter, C-2 general commercial district conditional uses,
except adult uses.
Carpenter and cabinet shops employing five (5) persons or less.
Drive-through restaurants.
Plumbing shops employing five (5) persons or less.
Sheet metal shops employing five (5) persons or less.
Tinsmith shops employing five (5) persons or less.
Wholesale establishment. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-7B-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
Property Development Regulations, C-3
Maximum building height    No height limitations
Minimum lot area:
   Commercial           None
   Apartments           None
Minimum front yard setback No front yard is required
Minimum side yard setback  No side yard is required
Minimum rear yard setback  No rear yard is required
 
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-7B-5: SITE PLAN REVIEW AND APPEARANCE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Plans Approved: Plans for the erection or structural alteration of any
business use dependent on vehicles entering into the business site or parking
lot shall be approved by the planning commission. The planning commission may
require such changes in relation to yards, setbacks, location of curb cuts,
width of drives, location of signs and accessory uses and buildings and
construction of buildings as it may deem best suited to ensure safety, to
minimize traffic difficulties and to safeguard adjacent properties.
      1.   The planning commission may make changes or modifications at the
time of reviewing a request for rezoning, conditional use or the zoning
administrator may bring an application for a building permit before the
planning commission for review and modifications.
   B.   Commercial Businesses: If in the opinion of the city attorney or zoning
administrator, a commercial business has the potential to create issues of
public safety and/or adverse impact, the planning commission may review traffic
and parking plans for new commercial business containing five thousand (5,000)
square feet or more or on a site one-third (1/3) acre or more.
   C.   Landscape And Buffering: The planning commission may require additional
landscape materials, open space buffering, and/or screening materials for all
buildings that abut an area zoned for residence.
   D.   Storage And Screening: Scrap materials, nonoperative motor vehicles or
machinery, disassembled machinery, debris, solid waste containers, construction
materials or equipment, and used machinery parts must be stored within a
defined area behind a screening fence. The planning commission is authorized to
grant waivers when unusual conditions prevent storage and screening. (Ord.
1067, 6-19-2006)
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. I-1 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8A-1: Purpose And Intent
10-8A-2: Uses Allowed
10-8A-3: Conditional Uses
10-8A-4: Intensity Of Use Regulations
10-8A-5: Property Development Regulations
10-8A-6: Traffic Regulations
10-8A-7: Screening Regulations
10-8A-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The I-1 general industrial district is intended for the purpose of allowing
basic or primary industries which are generally not compatible with residential
and/or commercial activity. This district is intended for lands appropriate for
manufacturing and industrial activities with direct access to major
transportation routes such as arterial roads, highways, and/or rail service.
The I-1 district allows a wide range of manufacturing and industrial uses and
related support services. Certain high traffic or hazardous uses require
special permission to locate in this district. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-8A-2: USES ALLOWED:
The following uses shall be permitted within the I-1 general industrial
district:
Animal hospital or clinics.
Athletic facilities (tennis, racquetball, soccer, gymnasium).
Auto body shops.
Blacksmith shop.
Boat sales, service and rental.
Bottling works and small food processing plants which are not offensive to the
sight or smell.
Broadcast and communication facilities.
Building construction trades, including, but not limited to, carpenter,
cabinet, plumbing and sheet metal.
Building materials sales.
Commercial bakeries.
Computer and data processing services.
Construction equipment rental and sales.
Contractor's office and equipment storage yard, except heavy construction.
Courier services.
Distribution center.
Dry cleaning and laundry plants.
Equipment repair and sales.
Exterminating services.
Federal, state, municipal, and county uses and structures.
Feed and seed stores.
Frozen food lockers.
Grain elevators.
Greenhouses and nurseries, retail and wholesale.
Laboratories, testing services, research, experimentation.
Lumberyards.
Machinery sales and storage lots (including farm machinery).
Mailing, package and parcel service.
Maintenance services.
Manufactured home dealers.
Manufacturing or fabrication establishments, which are not noxious or offensive
by reason of vibration, noise, dust, fumes, gas, odor or smoke.
Monument sales, service and manufacturing.
Offices.
Printing and publishing.
Public safety services, including, but not limited to, police, fire, EMS.
Public utilities and facilities.
Publicly owned and operated community buildings or meeting facilities.
Radiator repair.
Research facility.
Self-storage facilities.
Sign shops and facilities.
Technical schools and training facilities.
Upholster, furniture and fixtures repair shops.
Warehousing and storage.
Wholesale.
Accessory uses customarily incidental to the above uses.
Uses, which in the opinion of the zoning administrator are similar in nature to
the above listed uses. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-8A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted, subject to procedures listed in section
10-3-3 of this title:
Auto wrecking yards, junkyards and scrap processing yards, subject, however to
the provisions of chapter 9, "Supplementary Use Regulations", of this title.
Car and/or truck washes.
Communication towers one hundred feet (100') or greater in height, subject to
the provisions of chapter 9, "Supplementary Use Regulations", of this title.
Heavy construction trades.
Kennels (5 or more animals) for breeding, boarding and or sale.
Manufacturing or storage of bulk oil, gas and explosives.
Motor vehicle sales and storage.
Petroleum refining.
Poultry storage or slaughtering.
Ready mix concrete and asphalt mix plants.
Sanitary landfill (governmental).
Stockyard and slaughterhouses.
Truck terminals.
Welding.
Other uses which may be noxious or offensive by reason of the emission of odor,
dust, smoke, gas, noise or vibration. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-8A-4: INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   A building, structure or use allowed in this district may occupy all
that portion of a lot except for the area required for off street parking, off
street loading and unloading and their access roads and as otherwise required
in sections
10-8A-5 and
10-8A-6 of this article.
   B.   In the case where the required off street parking and/or loading and
unloading will be provided within the building or structure, then the building
or structure may cover the entire lot except as otherwise required in section
10-8A-5 of this article. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-8A-5: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
 
Property Development Regulations, I-1
                           When a building or structure is within 150 feet of a
Maximum building height    dwelling district zone, said building or structure
                           shall not exceed 45 feet in height.
                           When a building or structure is more than 150 feet
                          from a dwelling district zone, said building or
                           structure shall not exceed 150 feet in height.
                           No front yard shall be required, except as required
Minimum front yard setback for arterial or collector streets. (See section
                           10-9-2 of this title.)
                           No side yard shall be required, except where such
                           use abuts a dwelling district zone, in which case
Minimum side yard setback  there shall be required 15 feet of side yard on the
                           side of the lot which abuts the residential
                           district.
                           No rear yard shall be required, except where such
Minimum rear yard setback  use abuts a dwelling district zone, in which case
                           there shall be a required 15 feet of rear yard.
 
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-8A-6: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   Loading And Unloading Within Right Of Way: No loading or unloading
operation shall be permitted in the right of way of any street or alley.
   B.   Curb Cuts: Curb cuts for access to parking, loading and unloading areas
shall be first approved by the building inspector. In making application for
such curb cuts, the applicant shall present their proposal in writing and
provide the building inspector with sufficient plans showing location, width
and type of surface proposed across the public right of way. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-
2006)
10-8A-7: SCREENING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Scrap materials, nonoperative motor vehicles or machinery, disassembled
machinery, debris, solid waste containers, construction materials or equipment,
and used machinery parts must be stored within a defined area behind a
screening fence. The planning commission is authorized to grant waivers when
unusual conditions prevent storage and screening. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
ARTICLE B. I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8B-1: Purpose And Intent
10-8B-2: Uses Allowed
10-8B-3: Conditional Uses
10-8B-4: Intensity Of Use Regulations
10-8B-5: Property Development Regulations
10-8B-6: Traffic Regulations
10-8B-7: Screening Regulations
10-8B-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The I-2 heavy industrial district is designed to accommodate heavy industrial
uses not otherwise provided for in the I-1 general industrial district. Certain
extremely obnoxious or hazardous uses require special permission to locate in
this district. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-8B-2: USES ALLOWED:
The following uses shall be permitted within the I-2 heavy industrial district:
Any use permitted in the I-1 general industrial district, section
10-8A-2 of this chapter, except the following uses:
Athletic facilities.
Boat sales, service and rental.
Computer and data processing sales.
Agricultural storage and processing facilities, including elevators and
dehydrators.
Chemical and allied products.
Clay, lime and gypsum products.
Heavy construction trades.
Heavy manufacturing, fabricating, and assembly.
Manufacturing, processing, or fabrication activity that involves substantial
heat, light, and glare from welding, pressing, stamping, food preparation,
assembly lines, or excessive noise from moving, machinery, or assembly.
Sale and bulk storage of agricultural fuels, feed, fertilizers, and pesticides.
Stone and stone products.
Accessory uses customarily incidental to the above uses.
Uses, which in the opinion of the zoning administrator are similar in nature to
the above listed uses. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-8B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses shall be permitted subject to the procedures listed in
section
10-3-3 of this title:
Acid manufacture or reclamation.
Alcoholic beverage manufacture.
Auto wrecking yards, junkyards and scrap processing yards subject to chapter 9,
"Supplementary Use Regulations", of this title.
Bulk storage of gasoline and other petroleum products.
Explosives manufacture or storage.
Fertilizer manufacture.
Pesticide or herbicide manufacture.
Petroleum refinery.
Ready mix concrete and asphalt mix plants.
Slaughtering houses and meat packing plants.
Smelting of base metals.
Transfer station, solid waste. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-8B-4: INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   A building, structure or use allowed in this district may occupy all
that portion of a lot except for the area required for off street parking, off
street loading and unloading and their access roads and as otherwise required
in sections
10-8B-5 and
10-8B-6 of this article.
   B.   In the case where the required off street parking and/or loading and
unloading will be provided within the building or structure, then the building
or structure may cover the entire lot except as otherwise required in section
10-8B-5 of this article. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-8B-5: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
 
Property Development Regulations, I-2
                           When a building or structure is within 150 feet of a
Maximum building height    dwelling district zone, said building or structure
                           shall not exceed 45 feet in height.
                           When a building or structure is more than 150 feet
                          from a dwelling district zone, said building or
                           structure shall not exceed 150 feet in height.
                           No front yard shall be required, except as required
Minimum front yard setback for arterial or collector streets. (See section
                           10-9-2 of this title.)
                           No side yard shall be required, except where such
                           use abuts a dwelling district zone, in which case
Minimum side yard setback  there shall be required 15 feet of side yard on the
                           side of the lot which abuts the residential
                           district.
                           No rear yard shall be required, except where such
Minimum rear yard setback  use abuts a dwelling district zone, in which case
                           there shall be a required 15 feet of rear yard.
 
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-8B-6: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   Loading And Unloading Within Right Of Way: No loading or unloading
operation shall be permitted in the right of way of any street or alley.
   B.   Curb Cuts: Curb cuts for access to parking, loading and unloading area
shall be first approved by the building inspector. In making application for
such curb cuts, the applicant shall present their proposal in writing and
provide the building inspector with sufficient plans showing location, width
and type of surface proposed across the public right of way. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-
2006)
10-8B-7: SCREENING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Scrap materials, nonoperative motor vehicles or machinery, disassembled
machinery, debris, solid waste containers, construction materials or equipment,
and used machinery parts must be stored within a defined area behind a
screening fence. The planning commission is authorized to grant waivers when
unusual conditions prevent storage and screening. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
CHAPTER 9
SUPPLEMENTARY USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Landscaping And Planting
10-9-2: Building Setback Lines
10-9-3: Communication Towers
10-9-4: Adult Uses
10-9-5: Residential Design Manufactured Homes
10-9-6: Home Occupations
10-9-7: Auto Wrecking Yards, Junk Or Salvage Yards
10-9-1: LANDSCAPING AND PLANTING:
   A.   Distance To Curb: No trees or bushes shall be located in the front yard
closer than ten feet (10') from the curb.
   B.   Traffic Hazard: Trees, bushes or shrubs shall not be planted in such a
manner that they, in the judgment of the building inspector, create a sight or
traffic hazard.
   C.   Buffer Zones: Where a buffer zone is required between unlike
(residential, commercial, industrial) districts and the existing uses are in
conformance with the requirements of these regulations, all new development
shall provide the required fences, shrubbery, artificial barriers or similar
buffering materials and construct the required buffer zone. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-
2006)
10-9-2: BUILDING SETBACK LINES:
Building setback lines are hereby established for all arterial and collector
streets, as shown on the major street map which is on file in the city office
and made a part of this title as if fully set forth herein, which map is
designated as the major street map. The setback lines as established in this
section shall be held to be the minimum for the purposes of promoting the
public health, safety, morals, order, convenience and economy in the process of
development in the city and shall conform with the following requirements:
   A.   Major Highways: No building or structure shall be located nearer to the
centerline of the major highways designated Kansas K-96 or U.S. Highway 83,
than one hundred thirty feet (130'), if said building or structure is to be
situated upon a lot or tract fronting on a restricted access or frontage street
or road. The building or structure which is in conformance with the district
regulations in which the building is located at the time of the passage of the
ordinance codified herein will remain in conformance, however, any additions or
alterations of the building or structure shall not be made any closer to the
highways than the existing building or this section. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-9-3: COMMUNICATION TOWERS:
   A.   Radio or television towers, communication towers, microwave
transmitting and/or receiving towers and/or stations, radio antennas,
commercial satellite earth stations and similar appurtenances, subject to the
following:
      1.   The applicant shall present satisfactory proof that the proposed
location and use is reasonably necessary to provide transmission/reception
coverage for the service area.
      2.   If the tower is proposed to be located on a site where nighttime
warning lights would intrude in an area used for a residential purpose, the
applicant shall be required to document as to why the tower cannot be
reasonably located in a remote area.
      3.   Towers and communications devices shall not be required to comply
fully with the lot size and height regulations of the zoning district where
they are located except as may be required by the conditions imposed upon the
applicant. (See subsection
10-4-2K of this title.)
      4.   Towers shall be set back from all adjacent property lines and
buildings a distance equal to not less than its height plus fifty feet (50'),
an exception may be allowed for towers located adjacent to buildings owned by
the applicant. Towers located adjacent to streets and highways shall be set
back a distance as required by the applicable zoning district.
      5.   Towers shall be located on sites that provide a setback distance at
least equal to the height of the tower, except those owned and occupied by the
owner/leasee.
      6.   The applicant must document that collocation on an existing tower or
other structure within five (5) miles of the proposed location is not feasible
or that efforts were made to locate on existing towers or other structures but
such efforts were not successful. The applicant or intended user of the tower
shall place documentation of this requirement in the record.
      7.   All proposed communication towers one hundred feet (100') or less in
height shall be designed to accommodate at least one additional PCS/cellular or
other similar platform in addition to the applicant's current need. All
proposed communication towers in excess of one hundred feet (100') shall be
designated to accommodate at least four (4) additional PCS/cellular or other
similar platforms in excess of the applicant's current needs.
      8.   Any application for a proposed tower in excess of one hundred feet
(100') in height shall include documentation regarding the necessity for the
proposed height from a licensed professional engineer. Such documentation shall
be in the form of plans and specifications acceptable to the planning
commission and sealed by a professional engineer. At the request of the
planning commission additional evidence in the form of testimony may be
required from said engineer.
      9.   The tower and accessory equipment must meet all requirements of the
federal aviation administration. To the extent allowed by such requirements,
any required lighting for such tower shall be red during time of darkness and
white strobe lights shall not be allowed for nighttime lighting. (Ord. 1067, 6-
19-2006)
10-9-4: ADULT USES 1 :
   A.   Where Permitted: An adult entertainment or adult use shall only be
permitted in the C-2 general commercial district.
   B.   Location Requirements: An adult entertainment or adult use must be
located one thousand feet (1,000') from the following:
      1.   Public or private school.
      2.   Place of worship.
      3.   Park.
      4.   Licensed daycare center.
      5.   Another adult entertainment or adult use. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. KSA 12-770.
10-9-5: RESIDENTIAL DESIGN MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   A.   A structure manufactured to the standards embodied in the national
manufactured home construction and safety standards generally known as the HUD
code established in 1976, pursuant to 42 USC section 5403. Such units shall
provide all of the accommodations necessary to be a dwelling unit and shall be
connected to all utilities in conformance with applicable city regulations.
Such a structure shall be on a permanent type, enclosed perimeter foundation
which has minimum dimensions of twenty two (22) body feet in width, a pitched
roof, siding and roofing materials which are customarily used on site built
homes, and which complies with the following architectural or aesthetic
standards so as to ensure their compatibility with site built housing:
      1.   The roof must be predominantly double pitched and have a minimum
vertical rise of 2.2 inches for every twelve inches (12") of horizontal run,
and must be covered with material that is customarily used on site built
dwellings, including, but not limited to, approved wood, asphalt composition
shingles or fiberglass, but excluding corrugated aluminum, corrugated
fiberglass or metal roof. The roof shall have a minimum eave projection and
roof overhang on at least two (2) sides of ten inches (10") which may include a
gutter.
      2.   Exterior siding shall be of a nonreflective material customarily
used on site built dwellings such as wood, composition, simulated wood,
clapboards, conventional vinyl or metal siding, brick, stucco, or similar
materials, but excluding smooth, ribbed or corrugated metal or plastic panels.
Siding material shall extend below the top of the exterior of the foundation or
curtain wall or the joint between siding and enclosure wall shall be flashed in
accordance with city building codes.
      3.   The home shall be installed in accordance with the recommended
installation procedures of the manufacturer and the standards set by adopted
City building codes. A continuous, permanent concrete or masonry foundation or
masonry curtain wall, unpierced except for required ventilation and access
which may include walk-out basements and garages, shall be installed under the
perimeter of the home, also in accordance with the above guidelines.
      4.   At the main entrance door there shall be a landing that is a minimum
of twenty five (25) square feet which is constructed to meet the requirements
of the City building codes.
      5.   The moving hitch, axles, wheels and transporting lights must be
removed at the time of installation of the home on the lot.
      6.   The finished floor of the home shall be a maximum of twenty four
inches (24") above the exterior finish grade of the lot on which it is located,
as measured at the main entrance into the dwelling.
      7.   Any attached addition to such a home shall comply with all
construction requirements of the City building codes, unless designed and
constructed by a manufactured home factory.
      8.   If fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage of existing site
built housing on both sides of the street on which the residential design
manufactured home is to be installed have a garage and/or a similar percentage
have a covered porch or recessed entry, such a home shall also provide a garage
and/or porch or entry based on the percentages determined by the Zoning
Administrator. On a corner lot, the street shall mean that street on which the
frontage of the facade has been designated for the household address number.
External roofing and siding material of such garage, porch or entry shall be
similar in appearance to the materials on the roofing and siding of the
residential design manufactured home.
For purposes of these regulations, the term "manufactured home", when used by
itself, shall not include a "residential design manufactured home". Nothing in
these regulations shall be construed to preempt or supersede valid restrictive
covenants running with the land as to the placement or location of a
residential design manufactured home. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-9-6: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: The purpose of this section is to permit and
regulate the conduct of home occupations as an accessory use in a residence,
whether owner or renter occupied, and to ensure that such home occupations are
compatible with the neighborhoods in which they are located. The intent is to
protect residential areas from adverse effects of activities associated with
home occupations, while allowing residents of the community to utilize their
homes as a workplace and source of livelihood under certain conditions.
   B.   General Provisions And Review Criteria:
      1.   Location; Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be conducted
entirely within the principal residential building, except as provided by this
section and such use must be clearly incidental and secondary to the
residential use of the building. The home occupation may be conducted in an
unattached accessory building with prior approval of the Zoning Administrator
and the Planning Commission/Board of Zoning Appeals and provided all other
requirements of this section are complied with.
      2.   Adverse Impact: No home occupation shall generate vehicular traffic,
noise, parking, sewage or water use that is in excess of what is normal in a
residential district.
      3.   Traffic Generation: Deliveries to and from the home occupation shall
not require the use of vehicles other than parcel post or similar service
vehicles.
      4.   Commercial Vehicles: Commercial vehicles greater than one (1) ton
capacity shall not be parked at the location of the home occupation operator,
including the public right-of-way or private driveway.
      5.   Alteration Of Principal Structure: Residential structures shall not
be altered so as to change their character or appearance.
      6.   Nuisance: No mechanical or electrical equipment shall be used, nor
any business activity permitted, that creates a nuisance from noise, smell,
dust or other disturbance uncharacteristic of a normal residential district.
      7.   Outdoor Storage: No outdoor storage of equipment or materials used
in the home occupation shall be permitted.
      8.   Employees And Space: The home occupation shall be conducted by and
involve the employment of only the residents of the dwelling unit and not more
than one (1) nonresident. No more than twenty five percent (25%) of the total
square feet of the dwelling shall be used by the home occupation.
      9.   Signage: The home occupation may display a wall sign not to exceed
two (2) square feet, or a yard sign not to exceed three (3) square feet.
      10.   Permit Required: A permit to establish a home occupation is
required.
   C.   Permitted Uses: Home occupations include, but are not limited to, the
following example occupations:
      Artists, sculptors, authors, photographers and composers.
      Computer programming, personal computer data processing and home computer
bulletin board services.
      Direct sale product distribution (Amway, Avon, Tupperware, etc.) provided
parties for the purpose of selling merchandise or taking orders shall not be
held more than once a month, limited to ten (10) customers per party and held
between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
      Dressmakers, seamstresses, and tailors.
      Hairdresser/barber.
      Home crafts, such as model making, rug weaving, woodworking, ceramics
(with a kiln up to 6 cubic feet) and similar activities, provided that no
machinery or equipment shall be used or employed other than that which would
customarily be found in the home, including machinery or equipment that would
ordinarily be employed in connection with a hobby or avocation not conducted
for gain or profit.
      Home offices for architects, engineers, lawyers, realtors, insurance
agents, brokers, ministers, rabbis, priests, sales representatives,
manufacturers' representatives, home builders, home repair contractors, haulers
and similar occupations.
      Mail order, not including retail sales from the site.
      Music and art teachers or other tutoring services on an individual basis.
      Washing and ironing.
      "Work at home" activities where employees of a business, located at
another location, perform work for the business in their own residence,
provided all physical contact between the business and the employee occurs at
the place of business and not the residence, other than the initial
installation of any equipment or other work facilities. The work activities of
the employee shall conform to all other requirements of this section.
   D.   Prohibited Uses: The following uses shall not be used as a home
occupation:
      Automobile repair service.
      Commercial stables, kennels or animal hospitals.
      Dancing schools.
      Manufacturing of goods.
      Professional offices for healthcare services.
      Renting of trailers or equipment.
      Restaurants.
      Retail or wholesale sales. (Ord. 1180, 4-3-2017; amd. Ord. 1232, 1-17-
2022)
10-9-7: AUTO WRECKING YARDS, JUNK OR SALVAGE YARDS:
   A.   Located on a tract of land at least three hundred feet (300') from a
residential district zone.
   B.   The operation shall be conducted wholly within a noncombustible
building or within an area completely surrounded on all sides by a fence, wall
or hedge at least six feet (6') high. The fence, wall or hedge shall be of
uniform height, uniform texture and color and shall be so maintained by the
proprietor as to ensure maximum safety to the public and preserve the general
welfare of the neighborhood. The fence, wall or hedge shall be installed in
such a manner as to retain all scrap, junk or other material within the yard.
   C.   No junk shall be loaded, unloaded or otherwise placed, either
temporarily or permanently, outside the enclosing building, hedge, fence or
wall, or within the public right-of-way.
   D.   Burning of paper, trash, junk or other waste materials shall be
permitted only after approval of the Fire Department. Said burning, when
permitted, shall be done during daylight hours only. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
CHAPTER 10
ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES
SECTION:
10-10-1: Accessory Buildings, Uses And Activities
10-10-2: Temporary Uses
10-10-3: Fences
10-10-1: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, USES AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   An accessory building, use, or activity shall be incidental and
subordinate to the normal operation of the principal structure, building or
use.
      2.   All accessory buildings, uses, and activities shall be located on
the same lot as the principal use, or on a lot owned by the same taxpayer,
adjacent to the principal use.
      3.   All accessory buildings shall be placed on a permanent foundation,
slab, or piers approved by the zoning administrator. No permit shall be issued
for an accessory building that is equipped with wheels, skids, or any other
devices designed to make the building portable.
   B.   Permitted Accessory Uses: Accessory uses shall include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      Garages and carports. A detached garage or carport, provided that no such
structure that is accessory to a one- or two-family dwelling shall exceed one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet, except in the AG agricultural
district it shall not exceed one thousand four hundred (1,400) square feet,
shall be no taller than the dwelling or more than twenty feet (20') in height
whichever is less, and shall be compatible with the residential dwelling in
terms of design, appearance and materials. Garages built with access from an
alley shall be located a minimum of ten feet (10') from the rear lot line,
unless exempted by the zoning administrator.
      Household storage buildings, provided the structure does not exceed four
hundred (400) square feet. Storage buildings may be built up to the property
line on the alley, but must be four feet (4') from any adjoining property.
      Off street parking and loading spaces, subject to the provisions of
chapter 12 of this title.
      Playhouses, patios, porches, decks, gazebos.
      Radio and television antennas, provided they do not exceed sixty feet
(60') in height.
      Statuary, arbors, trellises, barbecue stoves, flagpoles, walls, and
hedges.
      Storage or use of accessory uses such as boats, boat trailers, camper
trailers, jet skis, and other similar recreational vehicles up to a maximum of
three (3) such uses or devices is allowed, provided said uses are located
within required rear yards or within established side yard setbacks. Such uses
shall not include the outdoor storage or parking of commercial trucks or buses
which exceed a three (3) ton manufacturer's rating hauling capacity.
      Swimming pools and hot tubs.
      Other necessary and customary buildings, uses, and activities determined
by the zoning administrator to be appropriate, incidental and subordinate to
the principal use on the lot.
   C.   Location:
      1.   Accessory buildings shall not be located within the front yard
setback.
      2.   An accessory building shall not be located closer than four feet
(4') to any side or rear lot line.
      3.   An accessory building shall not be located closer than four feet
(4') to a rear lot line, except for garages with access to an alley which
requires a ten foot (10') setback from the rear lot line, unless exempted by
the zoning administrator. When an existing accessory building is used as a
garage, and is located closer than ten feet (10') to the right of way of an
alley, the zoning administrator may allow such structure to be reconstructed or
reestablished on the same building footprint if it does not encroach on a
utility easement or right of way.
      4.   An accessory building shall not be located in the exterior side yard
of a corner lot unless it fronts an alley.
   D.   Use Limitations:
      1.   All accessory buildings, uses, and activities shall comply with the
general use regulations of each zoning district.
      2.   No accessory structure shall be constructed and occupied on any lot
prior to the completion of the principal structure.
   E.   Size Limitations:
      1.   An accessory building on a lot or parcel one acre or smaller shall
not exceed ten percent (10%) of the lot area.
      2.   A structure accessory to a permitted use shall not exceed four
hundred (400) square feet in gross floor area if it is used exclusively for
storage (i.e., wood or metal storage shed).
      3.   An accessory building shall not exceed the height restrictions of
the zoning district in which it is located, unless an accessory use is
specifically exempted from height restrictions. (Ord. 1175, 9-6-2016)
10-10-2: TEMPORARY USES:
   A.   General Provisions: The following temporary uses are permitted in any
zoning district unless prohibited:
      A carnival, festival, or fair in business, institutional, agricultural,
or industrial districts, and then only for a period that does not exceed three
(3) weeks. Such uses may be placed in all other districts if all activities are
located more than three hundred feet (300') from the nearest residential use.
Such uses need not comply with front yard requirements, provided that
structures or equipment which might block the view of operators of motor
vehicles on the public streets shall not be located within thirty feet (30') of
the intersection of the curb line of any two (2) streets.
      Christmas tree sales in any business or industrial district for a period
not to exceed sixty (60) days. Display of Christmas trees need not comply with
the yard and setback requirements of this title, provided that no tree shall be
displayed within twenty five feet (25') of the intersection of the curb line of
any two (2) streets.
      Contractors' office and equipment sheds accessory to a construction
project and to continue only during the duration of such project.
      Seasonal sale of farm produce grown on the premises of a single family
for not more than six (6) months per year. Structures incidental to such sale
need not comply with the applicable front yard requirements if the structures
are removed or moved back of the required front yard setback line at the end of
the season during which they are used.
      The display of goods and merchandise may be conducted outside of enclosed
buildings for a period of not more than two (2) consecutive weeks in any three
(3) month period and retail business may display merchandise of a type
generally sold within the building in the area immediately adjacent to the
building subject to the following conditions:
      1.   No portion of the display shall be on publicly owned property unless
the applicant shall first have obtained approval from the city.
      2.   No food or drink may be displayed outside the building except in
accordance with standards, if any established by the applicable health agency.
      3.   These provisions prohibit the outdoor display or the sale of used
furniture, used appliances, or other previously used merchandise, materials, or
products in any business district unless permitted by other sections of this
title.
      4.   The periodic conduct of what is commonly called "garage or yard
sales" which do not exceed a period of more than three (3) days during each six
(6) months. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-10-3: FENCES:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   Permit Required: A permit shall be obtained before installation of
any fence, except for fences to be used for agricultural purposes. The zoning
administrator shall review and approve, approve with conditions, or deny the
permit.
      2.   Easements: Fences installed on public or private easements are
allowed, provided the property owner assumes responsibility for the
reconstruction or replacement of any fence removed.
      3.   Drainage: All fences shall be constructed to allow for proper
surface drainage.
      4.   Barbed Wire Fencing: Barbed wire fencing shall be prohibited in
residential districts within the city limits, unless approved by the zoning
administrator.
      5.   Building Line: No fence shall be constructed closer to the street
than the front building line established for the district in which such fence
is to be erected, except, a property owner may construct a fence in front of
the building line established for the district in a height not exceeding thirty
inches (30") and shall not be any closer than five feet (5') to the curb or the
property line, whichever is greater.
      6.   Traffic Hazards: No fence shall be constructed which will constitute
a traffic hazard and no permit shall be granted for the construction of a fence
unless the building official has certified that the proposed fence will not
constitute a traffic hazard.
      7.   Dangerous: No fence shall be constructed in such a manner or be of
such design as to be hazardous or dangerous to persons or animals.
      8.   Obstructions: No person shall erect or maintain any fence which will
materially damage the adjacent property by obstructing the view, shutting out
the sunlight or hindering ventilation or which fence shall adversely affect the
public health, safety and welfare.
      9.   Height: No fence, except fences erected upon public or parochial
school grounds or in public parks and in public playgrounds, shall be
constructed of a height greater than six and one-half feet (61/2') in the rear
yard of the building on said lot; provided however, that the planning
commission may, by special permit, authorize the construction of a fence higher
than six and one-half feet (61/2') in the rear yard of the building on said
lot, if the planning commission finds the public welfare is preserved.
      10.   Construction Standards: All fences shall conform to the
construction standards of the building code. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
CHAPTER 11
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Purpose And Intent
10-11-2: Sign Definitions
10-11-3: Sign Permits And Fees
10-11-4: General Standards
10-11-5: Exemptions
10-11-6: Calculation, Permitted Signs, And Distribution
10-11-7: Permitted Signs; Agricultural District
10-11-8: Permitted Signs; Residential Districts
10-11-9: Permitted Signs; Commercial Districts
10-11-10: Permitted Signs; Industrial Districts
10-11-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: This chapter is adopted in recognition of the important
function of signs and the need to safeguard and enhance the economic and
aesthetic values in the city of Scott City and extraterritorial area through
regulation of such factors as size, number, location, illumination,
construction, and maintenance of signs; and thereby safeguard public health,
safety and general welfare.
   B.   Application: The regulations contained in this chapter shall apply to
signs outside of the public right of way and on the property to which the
standard or regulation refers, except when specifically stated otherwise. A
sign may only be erected, established, painted, created or maintained in
conformance with the standards, criteria, procedures, and other applicable
requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-11-2: SIGN DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter the terms defined in this section have the
meanings given them. The term "sign" or "billboard" means any device containing
advertising or directional matter. This definition is not intended to include
any public sign or device erected and maintained pursuant to statute, code, or
ordinance.
BILLBOARD: A signage structure designed and intended to provide a leasable
advertising copy area, where the copy can be periodically manually changed or
replaced.
   ERECT: To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend, or affix and shall
also include the painting of wall signs.
   SIGN: A structure, either stationary or movable, containing any writing,
announcements, declaration, demonstration, display, illustration, insignia or
illumination used to advertise or promote the distribution of any merchandise
or the sale of other property or service of any person.
   SIGN, AUTOMATIC CHANGING OR DIGITAL: A permanent sign that employs an
electronic or wireless controlled device to display characters, time,
temperature, date, weather conditions, messages or other digital copy. Digital
or changing signs, such as public service, time, temperature and date signs or
electronically controlled message centers shall not be classified as flashing,
animated, or moving signs.
   SIGN, BANNER: Any sign intended to be hung either with or without frames,
possessing characters, letter illustrations, or ornamentations applied to
paper, plastic, or fabric of any kind. National and state flags, flags of
political subdivisions, and patriotic or religious symbols shall not be
considered banners for the purpose of this section. This definition does not
include awnings.
   SIGN, BUSINESS: A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted, or to a commodity, service, goods, or entertainment sold or offered
on the premises on which such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL: A nonprompting, nonadvertising sign structure maintained
for guidance and information purposes only.
   SIGN, FLASHING: An intermittent or blinking illumination used for or in
connection with any sign. This definition does not include a digital or
changing sign.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING: See definition of Sign, Pylon Or Pole.
   SIGN, GOVERNMENTAL/PUBLIC SERVICE SIGNS: Permanent governmental signs for
control of traffic and other regulatory/notification purposes, street signs and
entrance signs.
   SIGN, MONUMENT: A sign whose base and structure are positioned primarily on
the ground and are typically solid from grade to the top of the structure. A
monument sign may also be referred to as a ground sign.
   SIGN, NAMEPLATE: A sign which states names or addresses or both of the
business or occupant of the lot or building where the sign is located.
   SIGN, PORTABLE: Any sign not permanently affixed to the ground or to a
building for the expressed purpose of advertising a business establishment,
product, service, or entertainment, when that sign is so placed as to attract
the attention of the motoring or pedestrian traffic.
   SIGN, PYLON OR POLE: A sign supported by one or more upright poles, columns,
or braces placed in or on the ground and not attached to any building or
structure. A kiosk type device is a double pole sign designed to display a
number of sign panels in a horizontal fashion.
   SIGN, ROOF: Any type of sign placed on, affixed to, painted on, or resting
upon the roof of a building.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY: A sign, banner, pennant, valance or other device
advertising an event or situation.
   SIGN, WALL: A sign attached to or erected against a wall of a building, with
the face horizontally parallel to the building wall.
   SIGN, WINDOW: A sign, symbol, or logo painted on, affixed to, or otherwise
placed on the inside or outside of a door or window. This definition does not
include holiday festive ornamentation. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-11-3: SIGN PERMITS AND FEES:
   A.   No sign shall be erected, altered, reconstructed, maintained or moved
in the city or extraterritorial area without first securing a permit from the
city. Application for a permit shall be in writing on a form provided and
addressed to the zoning administrator.
   B.   Sign permit fees are available from the city clerk of Scott City. (Ord.
1067, 6-19-2006)
10-11-4: GENERAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Height Of Sign: The sign height shall be measured from ground level at
the base of or below the sign to the highest element of the sign and shall be
determined for purposes of this title as independent from the maximum structure
height for zoning districts.
   B.   Size Of Sign: The maximum size of any sign in the territory included in
the zoning jurisdiction of the city of Scott City shall be four hundred (400)
square feet, except billboards, unless the planning commission, following
notice, publication and hearing, issues a special sign waiver.
   C.   Sign Placement: Except as hereinafter provided, no signs shall be
erected or maintained at any angle to a building or structure that extends or
projects over a public right of way. No sign which is erected or maintained
flat against any building or structure shall extend or project more than
fifteen inches (15") over the sidewalk, street, or highway. No sign, handbills,
posters, notices, or similar devices shall be placed in a public right of way.
   D.   Flashing Or Moving Signs: No flashing signs, rotating or moving signs,
animated signs, signs with moving lights or signs which create the illusion of
movement shall be permitted in any district without a special sign waiver from
the planning commission. A changing or digital sign shall not be deemed to be a
flashing sign.
   E.   Accessway Or Window: No sign shall block any accessway or window
required by any applicable building, housing, fire or other codes or
regulations.
   F.   Signs On Trees Or Utility Poles: No sign whether on public or private
property, shall be attached to a tree or utility pole.
   G.   Interference: No sign shall be placed or maintained at any location
where, by reason of its position, size, shape or color, it could obstruct,
impair, obscure, interfere with the view of, or be confused with any traffic
control signs, signal or device, or where it may interfere with, mislead or
confuse traffic.
   H.   Violations: A violation of any part of this chapter is a misdemeanor.
Each day that the violation continues is a separate offense.
   I.   Unauthorized Signs: No person may place, maintain or display upon or in
view of any street or highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of, or resembles any official traffic
control device or railroad sign or signal, or emergency vehicle signal, or
which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal. No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public
authority permit upon any street or highway any traffic signal or signal
bearing thereon any commercial advertising. This shall not be deemed to
prohibit useful directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken
for official signs.
   J.   Prohibited Signs: The following types of signs are prohibited:
      1.   Signs painted, other than an official governmental logo or name,
attached or in any other manner affixed to trees, rocks, or similar natural
surfaces, or attached to public utility poles, bridges, towers, or similar
public structures.
      2.   Any sign, device, lamp or light which is so constructed, operated or
used that so that direct illumination is concentrated or beamed is hereby
prohibited.
      3.   Signs which by reason of position, shape or color, would detract
from or otherwise interfere with the proper functioning of a traffic control
sign or signal.
      4.   Signs that resemble any official marker erected by a governmental
agency or display such words as "stop" or "danger" except official traffic
control signs, and except in planned developments served with private streets,
traffic control signs may be used where approved by the city engineer.
      5.   Banners that are erected permanently (for more than 30 days).
   K.   Portable Signs: Notwithstanding any other provisions of these
regulations the following provisions apply to the use of portable signs:
      1.   A portable sign is one designed to be transported on wheels, skids,
a bench, runners, brackets, or has a frame to which wheels, skids, runners,
brackets, or similar mechanical devices can be attached to or support the sign.
A portable sign also includes inflatable devices and mobile signs such as
parked trailers or vehicles, which include signs that are visible from the
public right off way unless such vehicle is used in the normal day to day
operations of the business.
      2.   All portable signs shall be anchored or weighted to prevent wind
damage. Proper maintenance of such signs is the responsibility of the permit
holder with particular attention to the condition of the lettering, loose or
missing parts and painted surfaces. Improperly maintained signs as determined
by the zoning administrator shall have their permits revoked.
      3.   All the general standards of subsections A through I of this section
are applicable to portable signs.
      4.   Whereas portable signs are not required to set back any minimum
distance from lot lines in any zoning district, such signs shall not be placed
within one hundred feet (100') of another portable sign when viewed in direct
line of sight. The zoning administrator shall strictly enforce the traffic
safety provisions of subsection G of this section, especially at corner
intersections and driveway entrances and exits and prevent the placement of
such signs on public rights of way.
      5.   In addition to the provisions of subsection D of this section,
strobe light sources or flashing bulbs or signs which create the illusion of
movement shall not be permitted on portable signs in any district. Electrical
power lines must be concealed or covered to prevent an electrical hazardous
condition such as caused by vehicular traffic or pedestrian passage. The use of
extension cords for portable signs is prohibited. A ground fault circuit
interrupter (GFCI) is required on all electrified signs.
      6.   A sign permit for each portable sign must be obtained by an
applicant for each thirty (30) day period or portion thereof. An applicant will
be charged for each sign permit, except that permits for nonprofit
organizations will be issued at no charge. A signed and dated letter of
authorization from the owner of the property where the sign is to be located
shall accompany the application.
      7.   No portable sign shall be displayed for a period exceeding thirty
(30) days and no more than two (2) sign permits for such sign shall be issued
to any applicant within the same calendar year. An applicant may be the owner
of the zoning lot on which the portable sign is placed or agents for businesses
or nonprofit organizations.
      8.   Portable signs defined herein as ground signs shall not be counted
numerically as a permanent ground sign.
   L.   Billboard Signs: Notwithstanding any other provisions of these
regulations the following provisions apply to the use of billboard signs:
      1.   The owner shall agree, at the time of issuance of the permit, to
place and maintain on such billboard, the name of the person owning, in charge
of or in control of said billboard.
      2.   No billboard shall be erected, altered, constructed, reconstructed
or moved until an application and plans have been filed with the building
official as to size, location and construction.
      3.   The owner, lessee and manager of such billboard and the owner of the
sign shall maintain and keep the ground area around the sign clean, sanitary,
inoffensive and free and clean of weeds and noxious substances.
      4.   Plans for billboards in the fire limits shall be referred to the
fire chief for review and recommendation.
      5.   No billboard shall project beyond the front, side or rear building
line established for the district set forth in this zoning code.
      6.   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain, or cause to be
constructed or maintained, any billboard in such a manner as to:
         a.   Obstruct the view of street crossings or railroad crossings.
         b.   Be unable to stand a pressure of at least thirty (30) pounds per
square foot of advertising surface.
         c.   Be dangerous to the public by falling or blowing down.
         d.   Increase the danger of loss by fire or to increase fire insurance
rates.
         e.   Approach nearer than five feet (5') from any building, unless
attached to the building.
      7.   Billboards hereafter erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered or
moved in the city shall be constructed in such a manner and of such material
that they shall be safe and substantial.
      8.   Billboards supported by the ground shall have all posts set in
concrete.
   M.   Political Signs: Political signs shall be permitted in all zoning
districts, subject to the following limitations:
      1.   Political signs shall not exceed a height of six feet (6') nor an
area of thirty two (32) square feet.
      2.   Political signs for election candidates or ballot propositions shall
be displayed only for a period of sixty (60) days preceding the election and
shall be removed within ten (10) days after the election, provided that signs
promoting successful candidates or ballot propositions in a primary election
may remain displayed until not more than ten (10) days after the general
election.
      3.   Political signs shall not be placed in any public right of way or
obstruct traffic visibility. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-11-5: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The following signs shall be exempt from the requirements of this
chapter:
      1.   Flags or emblems of a government or a political, civic,
philanthropic, educational or religious organization displayed on private
property.
      2.   Signs of a duly constituted governmental body or public utility,
including traffic or similar regulatory devices, legal notices, warnings at
railroad crossings and other instructional or regulatory signs having to do
with health, hazards, parking, swimming, or dumping.
      3.   Memorial signs and tablets displayed on private property.
      4.   Address numerals and other signs required to be maintained by law or
governmental order, rule or regulation.
      5.   Small signs, not exceeding nine (9) square feet each in area or more
than five feet (5') in height, displayed on private property for the
convenience of the public, directional signs, signs to identify entrance and
exit driveways, parking areas, one-way driveways, restrooms, freight entrances
and the like.
      6.   Temporary signs located on private property such as, but not limited
to, real estate, for sale, political, or campaign signs, construction signs,
signs announcing a "grand opening", open house, or "discontinuing business",
and signs that mark the future "site of" a building. This provision shall not
include portable signs. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-11-6: CALCULATION, PERMITTED SIGNS, AND DISTRIBUTION:
   A.   Sign Area: The region or space bounding a sign, image, symbol,
structure, or object shall be used to calculate the total sign area.
Architectural elements, bases, poles, flags, fenestrations and those objects
that do not contribute to the message intended to be conveyed by the sign are
not calculated in the overall sign area.
   B.   Awnings, Canopies And Marquees: Canopies, marquees and fixed awnings
are an integral part of the structure to which they are attached. These devices
may project into the required yard or public sidewalk, but not into a public
road right of way.
      1.   An awning, canopy or marquee may not project into the public
sidewalk nearer than thirty inches (30") to the street curb or curb line;
      2.   Awnings, canopies or marquees may have no part of the structure
other than supports nearer the ground surface than seven feet (7');
      3.   The architectural style of the awning, canopy or marquee must be
consistent with the building being served;
      4.   Awnings, canopy or marquees projecting into the required yards may
not be enclosed except with a transparent material permitting through vision;
      5.   Awnings, canopies or marquees built over the public right of way
must be included in a liability insurance policy holding the city free of all
responsibility.
   C.   External Illumination: External illumination for signs shall be so
constructed and maintained that the source of light is not visible from the
public right of way or residential property.
   D.   Permanent Name Or Identity Sign: A permanent name or identity sign on
the site of any institution or housing complex having five (5) or more units
may be erected. If the sign is to be used in connection with an apartment
complex, such sign may include descriptive words and price. The advertising
space shall not exceed thirty six (36) square feet per side and a sign may not
have more than two (2) sides.
   E.   Sign Height: The top of a sign, including its superstructure, if any,
shall be no higher than the roof of the building to which such sign may be
attached unless a special sign waiver is granted by the planning commission.
Signs, including any superstructure standing or erected free of any building or
other structure, shall not exceed an overall height of the structure or use
that it serves. If a freestanding sign does not serve a building/structure, it
shall be no higher than thirty feet (30') above grade. The zoning administrator
may adjust sign heights to reflect changes in grade and distance.
   F.   Special Sign Waiver Required: Applications for other proposed sign
permits involving a lesser setback, a greater size, a greater height, or of
another type than that required by this chapter may be granted only by and
under a special sign waiver issued by the planning commission. An application
for a special sign waiver shall be made on forms provided by the zoning
administrator, or as a part of the site plan approval process. A waiver may be
granted permanently or temporarily and subject to any conditions necessary to
support the public safety, welfare, convenience, and aesthetic considerations.
A special sign waiver may require periodic reviews and may be canceled for
cause.
   G.   Special Sign Waiver Conditions: Special sign waivers or site plan
reviews may be granted for unique circumstances and special difficulty in all
zoning districts and may also be used to grant special consideration to public
parks and playgrounds, churches, synagogues, public libraries, public museums,
public and parochial schools, municipal buildings, golf courses, country clubs,
apartment buildings, nursing homes, community centers, colleges, universities
and private schools, hospitals, and sanitariums, based on the following design
criteria and other conditions the planning commission may require:
      1.   Size: The size shall be proportional to the size of the facility,
need for signing, frontage on street(s), location, visibility, and development
in the area.
      2.   Reserved.
      3.   Lighting: Lighting shall be indirect or it shall be backlighting.
      4.   Design: Signs attached to buildings shall be integrated with
building design and architecture in terms of materials, colors, lighting and
placement; signs not attached to the building shall be architecturally treated
and coordinated with the principal building by use of compatible materials and
design.
      5.   Location: No freestanding signs shall project into a roadway.
   H.   Automatic Changing Signs: Automatic changing signs/digital signs are
allowed in commercial or industrial zoning districts, and at public/private
schools provided:
      1.   That all automatic changing signs are a pylon/pole or monument sign.
      2.   That all automatic changing signs that face (directed towards) a
residential district are located at least one hundred feet (100') from that
district.
      3.   That any automatic changing sign will be included in total allowable
sign area.
      4.   Electronic messages may be changed at periodic intervals by various
entry and exit display modes provided that this does not constitute animation.
      5.   Where automatic changing/digital signs are proposed along a major
arterial street or within one hundred fifty feet (150') of a traffic signal
light, the sign permit shall be reviewed by the zoning administrator to
consider the proposed location, design and hold time.
      6.   That all automatic changing signs shall be on premises.
      7.   The maximum size of the letter is twenty four inches (24").
      8.   That a business is limited to one automatic changing sign per site.
   I.   Supplemental Sign Standards:
      1.   Illumination Of Permanent And Temporary Signs: Permanent and
temporary signs shall be permitted to be illuminated in compliance with the
following:
         a.   Banner signs shall be classified as "temporary signs". All banner
signs shall be affixed to the building that they serve or fastened or anchored
sufficiently, whether attached to the building or positioned in the ground. The
zoning administrator shall issue permits for a maximum of two (2) banner signs
per proprietor for a period of thirty (30) days.
         b.   Temporary signs shall not be internally illuminated. Any external
illumination of these signs shall be permitted only in commercial and
industrial zones. In addition, temporary signs shall meet the following
requirements:
            (1)   All temporary signs must be placed on private property. Any
sign placed in a road right of way, or on any public property, shall be subject
to immediate removal. Any temporary sign that, in the opinion of the zoning
administrator, poses a safety hazard to people, property or traffic may be
removed immediately.
            (2)   Any sign of a political nature may be erected or placed on
private property forty five (45) days before any election and removed ten (10)
days after the date of the election.
            (3)   Event signs, such as, but not limited to, open house,
auction, "church supper/breakfast", yard sale, fair, festival, institutional
event or meeting may be placed on private property forty eight (48) hours
before the event and removed twenty four (24) hours after the event.
            (4)   Real estate for rent/lease or sale signs may be placed on the
property offered for sale for the duration of the offering.
            (5)   Personal property for sale signs are exempt if affixed to the
object for sale. If the sign is not affixed to the object for sale, it must be
removed after thirty (30) days of display.
            (6)   Requests for special circumstances, or variation from these
supplemental regulations for temporary signs, may be granted by the planning
commission as a "sign waiver".
         c.   All internally illuminated building signs or freestanding signs
shall comply with the following:
            (1)   Except as provided in subsection I1c(3) of this section, the
sign shall be constructed with either: an opaque background and translucent
letters or contrasting color for the letters and symbols. Registered trademarks
and logos are exempt from this provision.
            (2)   No internal lighting shall include exposed incandescent or
fluorescent bulbs.
            (3)   A changeable copy sign with dark colored letters or symbols
on a lighter contrasting translucent background may be internally illuminated
if the internally illuminated area of the sign does not exceed twenty (20)
square feet.
            (4)   Freestanding signs more than fifteen feet (15') high shall
only be internally illuminated. Signs less than or equal to fifteen feet (15')
in height may be either internally or externally illuminated.
            (5)   The external illumination of freestanding signs shall comply
with the following:
               (A)   Any external lighting of signs that have a height of
between eight feet (8') and fifteen feet (15') must be from the top of the sign
and directed downward.
               (B)   The lighting of signs that have a height of eight feet
(8') or less may be illuminated from the top of the sign or from the ground.
               (C)   Indirect light sources must be shielded from the sight of
persons viewing the sign and be further shielded and directed so that the light
shines only on the sign and that illumination beyond the sign face is
minimized.
            (6)   Externally illuminated building/wall signs may only be
illuminated from the top of the sign.
            (7)   Light sources for externally illuminated signs must be
shielded and directed so that the light shines on the sign and that
illumination beyond the sign face is minimized.
            (8)   Freestanding signs accessory to a single-family dwelling,
two-family, or townhouse use in a residential district shall not be
illuminated.
            (9)   Signs on a building or parcel in a residential district that
has multi-family uses shall not be internally illuminated.
            (10)   For signs on permitted nonresidential uses in residential
districts the illumination may be from external sources or by internal
illumination of the letters and logos only; internal illumination of the
background portion of the sign is prohibited.
            (11)   If a registered trademark or logo is not in compliance with
the illumination requirements of this section, then such area of noncompliance
shall be limited to a maximum of thirty percent (30%) of the sign area.
   J.   Preservation Of Sight Lines:
      1.   For the purpose of assuring that drivers and pedestrians have
adequate visibility at the intersection of a roadway, street, driveway, trail,
or alley, no sign or portion of a sign between a height of two and one-half
feet (21/2') and eight feet (8') shall conflict with the American Association
of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) sight distance triangle
specifications.
   K.   Construction Standards:
      1.   The construction, erection, safety and maintenance of signs shall
comply with all building, construction, life safety, electrical and mechanical
codes of the city of Scott City.
      2.   Signs shall be structurally sound and located so as to pose no
threat to pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
      3.   Permanent signs shall be fabricated on and of materials that are of
good quality and good durability.
      4.   Electric signs and all permanent signs involving structural
requirements of the building code shall be installed, repaired, altered and
serviced only by a contractor licensed to perform such tasks.
      5.   No sign shall be erected so as to obstruct any window, door, fire
escape, balcony, platform, stairway, ladder, vent or other means of ingress and
egress of any building.
      6.   No sign shall be attached to a utility pole, tree, trash receptacle,
bench or other structure not intended or approved as a sign support.
      7.   Temporary signs shall be durable and weather resistant and fastened
or anchored sufficiently, whether attached to the building or positioned in the
ground.
      8.   No sign regulated by any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
erected in the right of way, in proximity to railroad crossings, or at the
intersection of any streets in such a manner as to obstruct free and clear
vision; or at any location where, by reason of the position, shape, or color,
it may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with, any
authorized traffic sign, signal or device; or which makes use of the words
"STOP", "LOOK", "DANGER", or any other word, phrase, symbol or character in
such a manner as to interfere with, mislead, or confuse traffic.
      9.   In the event there is a conflict between the provisions of this
section and the provisions of any applicable building codes, the provisions of
the applicable building code shall govern.
   L.   Maintenance: All signs shall be maintained in accordance with the
following:
      1.   The property owner, occupant, or other person responsible for the
sign shall maintain the sign in a condition fit for the intended use and he or
she shall have a continuing obligation to comply with all building code
requirements.
      2.   If the zoning administrator finds that any sign is unsafe, insecure,
a menace to the public, notice shall be given in writing to the owner. The
owner of the business shall, within three (3) working days of such
notification, correct such unsafe condition or remove the sign. If the
correction has not been made within this time, the sign may be removed or
altered by Scott City to comply with these regulations at the expense of the
owner or occupant of the property upon which the sign is located. The zoning
administrator may cause any sign, which, in the administrator's opinion,
creates a danger to persons or property, or is located in a public right of
way, to be removed immediately and without notice.
      3.   Whenever any sign, either conforming or nonconforming to these
regulations, is required to be removed for the purpose of repair, refurbishing,
or repainting, the same may be done without a permit or any payment of fees
provided that all of the following conditions are met:
         a.   There shall be no alteration or remodeling to the sign base, sign
support(s) or the mounting of the sign itself.
         b.   There shall be no enlargement or increase in any of the
dimensions of the sign or its structure.
         c.   The sign shall be accessory to a legally permitted, conditional
or nonconforming use.
      4.   The zoning administrator may order any sign to be repaired whenever
reasonably necessary to keep the sign in a safe condition. All supports, guys,
braces and anchors for such signs shall be maintained in a safe condition. The
sign face of any permanent sign which advertises a business that has not been
conducted on the premises for ninety (90) consecutive days or fails to serve
the purposes for which it was intended, or evidences a lack of maintenance,
shall be removed by the owner, agent, or person having the beneficial use of
the building, structure or land upon which such sign is located, within thirty
(30) days after written notice by the zoning administrator and the sign area
shall be replaced by a neutral, single background color panel or similar cover.
If the sign is comprised of individually raised letters then the letters shall
be removed. Upon failure to comply with such notice within the time specified
in such order, the administrative official is hereby authorized to cause
removal of such sign, and any expense incident thereto shall be paid by the
owner of the property on which such sign is located. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-11-7: PERMITTED SIGNS; AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT:
Advertising and business signs shall be allowed in the agricultural district,
subject to the following regulations and subject to the construction standards
set forth in the building code.
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
Permitted Type Of Sign Quantity Illuminated Maximum Area Of Single Comments
                                            Sign
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
Permitted Type   Quantity         Illuminated Maximum Area Of Comments
Of Sign                                       Single Sign
                                                              1,000 square feet
                                                              in area (on a
                                                              single face);
                                                              provided, when a
                                              30 feet in      billboard is
Billboard sign                   Yes         height          erected closer
                                              aboveground     than 300 feet
                                                              from another
                                                              billboard,
                                                              neither billboard
                                                              shall exceed 500
                                                              square feet.
                                                              1 bulletin board
Bulletin boards;                                              on each street
churches, public    1 – 2    Yes         24 square feet  side if located
institutions                                                  on the same site
                                                              as the principal
                                                              building.
                                                              A wall or facade
                                                              sign shall not be
                                                              placed on the
                                                              roof of a
                                                              structure.
                                                               
                                                              Monument signs
                                                              shall be located
                 1 wall or facade                             no closer than 5
                 identification                               feet from any
Business         sign                                         property line,
identification                   Yes         40 square feet  provided said
signs            1 monument                                   sign does not
                 (ground)                                     obstruct traffic.
                 identification                                
                                                              Monument signs
                                                              shall be
                                                              permanently
                                                              anchored to the
                                                              ground and shall
                                                              not exceed a
                                                              height of 6 feet
                                                              above normal
                                                              grade.
                                                              A wall or facade
                                                              sign shall not be
                                                              placed on the
                 1 wall or facade                             roof of a
Government,      identification                               structure.
churches, public sign                                          
institutions,                                                Monument signs
schools,         1 monument       Yes         40 square feet  shall be
hospitals        (ground)                                     permanently
identification   identification                               anchored to the
signs            sign                                         ground and shall
                                                              not exceed a
                                                              height of 6 feet
                                                              above normal
                                                              grade.
                                                              The nameplate
                                                              shall show only
                                                              the name and/or
Home occupation                                               address of the
nameplate           1          No          2 square feet   occupant and be
                                                              affixed to the
                                                              principal
                                                              building, flat
                                                              against the wall.
Nonbusiness                                                   Gives direction
directional                                                   to an
signs                            Yes         15 square feet  institution,
(permanent)                                                   public, historic,
                                                              or similar use.
                                                              See subsection
Temporary signs                                            10-11-6I1b of
                                                              this chapter.
 
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-11-8: PERMITTED SIGNS; RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
Advertising and business signs shall be allowed in the residential districts,
subject to the following regulations and subject to the construction standards
set forth in the building code.
 
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
Permitted Type  Quantity         Illuminated Maximum Area Of Comments
Of Sign                                      Single Sign
                                                             A wall or facade
                                                             sign shall not be
Government,                                                  placed on the
churches,       1 wall or facade                             roof of a
libraries,      identification                               structure.
community       sign                                         Monument signs
centers, public 1 monument       Yes         40 square feet  shall be
institutions,   (ground)                                     permanently
schools,        identification                               anchored to the
hospitals       sign                                         ground and shall
identification                                               not exceed a
signs                                                        height of 6 feet
                                                             above normal
                                                             grade.
                                                             The nameplate
                                                             shall show only
                                                             the name and/or
Home occupation                                              address of the
nameplate       1                No          2 square feet   occupant and be
                                                             affixed to the
                                                             principal
                                                             building, flat
                                                             against the wall.
Nonbusiness                                                  Gives direction
directional                                                  to an
signs                           Yes         15 square feet  institution,
(permanent)                                                  public, historic,
                                                             or similar use.
                                                             See subsection
Temporary signs                                           10-11-6I1b of
                                                             this chapter.
 
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-11-9: PERMITTED SIGNS; COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS:
Advertising and business signs shall be allowed in the commercial districts,
subject to the following regulations and subject to the construction standards
set forth in the building code.
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
Permitted Type Of Sign Quantity Illuminated Maximum Area Of Single Comments
                                            Sign
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
Permitted Type  Quantity        Illuminated     Maximum Area Of Comments
Of Sign                                         Single Sign
                                                                Where signs are
                                                                affixed to
                1 additional                                    awnings,
                awning sign may                                 canopies and
Awning sign.    be erected to                                   marquees, the
See subsection  identify a                                      awning, canopy
10-11-6B of     business. This     Yes                      or marquee
this chapter    sign is in lieu                                 shall be
                of a facade or                                  constructed and
                wall sign                                       maintained in
                                                                accordance with
                                                                the building
                                                                code.
                                                                Each side of a
                                                                lot which abuts
                                                                upon a street
                                                                shall be
                                                                considered as a
                                                                separate
                                                                frontage, and
                                                The gross       the gross
                                                surface area    surface of all
                                Yes, provided   (in square      signs located
                                said sign is    feet) on 1 side on each side of
Facade or wall  2 provided only illuminated     of any business a structure or
business        1 on a facade   only during     sign on a lot   street shall
identification  or wall surface business hours  shall not       not exceed 3
sign                            or until 11:00  exceed 3 times  times the
                                P.M., whichever the linear feet linear feet in
                                is later        of separate     the separate
                                                frontage of the frontage;
                                                lot             providing, that
                                                                the total
                                                                surface area
                                                                shall not
                                                                exceed 400
                                                                square feet for
                                                                each face of
                                                                the sign.
                                                                Gives direction
Nonbusiness                                                     to an
directional                       Yes       15 square feet  institution,
signs                                                           public,
(permanent)                                                     historic, or
                                                                similar use.
                                Yes, provided
Pole or                         said sign is    30 foot maximum
monument                        illuminated     height
business           1         only during                     
identification                  business hours  45 maximum
sign                            or until 11:00  square feet
                                P.M., whichever
                                is later
                                                                Sandwich signs
                                                                may be allowed,
                                                                providing said
Sandwich sign                     No                       sign is
                                                                permanently
                                                                affixed to the
                                                                surface on
                                                                which it rests.
                                                                See subsection
Temporary signs                                              10-11-6I1b of
                                                                this chapter.
                                                                The sign shall
Unified                         Yes, provided                   display no more
shopping center 1 additional    said sign is    30 foot maximum than the name
identification  sign may be     illuminated     height          and location of
sign. The sign  erected to      only during                    the shopping
may be a        identify a      business hours  60 maximum      center, unless
freestanding    shopping center or until 11:00  square feet     a waiver is
pole/monument                   P.M., whichever                 granted by the
or wall sign                    is later                        planning
                                                                commission.
 
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-11-10: PERMITTED SIGNS; INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS:
Advertising and business signs shall be allowed in the industrial districts,
subject to the following regulations and subject to the construction standards
set forth in the building code.
 
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
Permitted Type  Quantity        Illuminated     Maximum Area Of Comments
Of Sign                                         Single Sign
                                                                Each side of a
                                                                lot which abuts
                                                                upon a street
                                                                shall be
                                                                considered as a
                                                                separate
                                                                frontage, and
                                                The gross       the gross
                                                surface area    surface of all
                                Yes, provided   (in square      signs located
                                said sign is    feet) on 1 side on each side of
Facade or wall  2 provided only illuminated     of any business a structure or
business        1 on a facade   only during     sign on a lot   street shall
identification  or wall surface business hours  shall not       not exceed 3
sign                            or until 11:00  exceed 3 times  times the
                                P.M., whichever the linear feet linear feet in
                                is later        of separate     the separate
                                                frontage of the frontage;
                                                lot             providing, that
                                                                the total
                                                                surface area
                                                                shall not
                                                                exceed 400
                                                                square feet for
                                                                each face of
                                                                the sign.
                                                                See subsection
Temporary signs                                              10-11-6I1b of
                                                                this chapter.
 
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
CHAPTER 12
PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-12-1: General Provisions
10-12-2: Parking Site Plan
10-12-3: Number Of Parking Spaces Required
10-12-4: Design Standards
10-12-5: Off Street Loading And Unloading Requirements
10-12-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
All new structures shall provide off street parking and loading facilities in
accordance with this chapter. When an existing structure is altered, expanded
or remodeled in any manner so as to enlarge or increase capacity by adding or
creating dwelling units, floor area or seating capacity, the existing structure
shall provide off street parking and loading facilities in accordance with this
chapter.
   A.   Parking In Front Or Side Yards: Parking may be located in any yard,
however, in residential districts no parking shall be located in a required
front yard or a required side yard adjacent to a street except in the driveway.
   B.   Parking For Vehicles In Operating Condition: Parking stalls and spaces
shall be used for motor vehicles in operating condition by patrons, occupants,
or employees.
   C.   Major Repair Work Prohibited: No major vehicle repair work or service
of any kind shall be permitted in any parking facilities.
   D.   Unlicensed Vehicles Prohibited: No unlicensed vehicle or part of such
vehicle may be left, parked or stored upon any street, public or private
property, or on any driveway within the city. If said violation occurs, the
owner shall remove the vehicle after notice by the police department. (Ord.
1067, 6-19-2006)
   E.   Parking On Nonimproved Surfaces:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or allow to be parked
for any period of time any motor vehicle, trailer, recreational vehicle, boat
or motorcycle in the front or side yard setback area of any lot in an R-1, R-
2 or R-3 residential district in the city, unless the area used for parking is
in compliance with the zoning regulations of the city, and is improved with
concrete, asphalt, gravel or similar hard surface. For purposes of this
subsection front yard and side yard setback shall have the same meaning as
defined by the zoning regulations of the city. Each day during which a
violation of this subsection continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      2.   A violation of this subsection E shall be a class C violation
punishable as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 1111, 6-21-
2010)
10-12-2: PARKING SITE PLAN:
A site plan showing the layout and design of all required parking and loading
areas shall be submitted and approved by the zoning administrator prior to
issuance of a building permit. All required spaces shall be properly designed
according to design standards and shall be indicated on the plan. The zoning
administrator is authorized to grant a waiver for a parking site plan. (Ord.
1067, 6-19-2006)
10-12-3: NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED:
Unless waived or modified by the zoning administrator, parking requirements and
space development standards for all uses shall be established in accord with
the following standards set forth in the table below:
PARKING REQUIREMENTS1
Use  Parking
Use                                                    Parking
                                                       1 space for each 400
Automobile sales and service garage                   square feet of floor
                                                       area
Banks, post office, business and professional          1 space for each 200
offices                                               square feet of floor
                                                       area
Bowling alleys                                        5 spaces for each alley
Car wash (customer holding areas)                     5 spaces per stall
                                                       1 per 5 seats, based on
Church or place of worship                            maximum seating capacity
                                                       of the main assembly
                                                       room or sanctuary
Dance halls and assembly halls without fixed seats,    1 space for each 200
exhibition halls, except church assembly rooms in     square feet used for
conjunction with auditorium                            assembly or dancing
Daycare:                                                
Commercial                                            5, plus employees
Home                                                   1, plus employees
Funeral facility                                      1 per 5 seats
Furniture and appliance stores, household equipment    1 space for each 500
or furniture repair shop                              square feet of floor
                                                       area
General office                                        1 per 300 square feet
General office - customer                             1 per 200 square feet
Government, utilities, etc.                           1 per 400 square feet
Healthcare clinics                                    1 per 130 square feet
                                                       1 space per rental unit,
Hotels and motels                                     plus spaces as required
                                                       for restaurants
Manufacturing                                         1 per 2 employees on
                                                       maximum shift
Public/semipublic assembly of any type                To be negotiated
Recreation                                            To be negotiated
                                                        
Residence:                                             2 spaces per dwelling
Single and duplex                                      unit
3 to 5 units                                          3 spaces per dwelling
Multi-family                                           unit
                                                       2 spaces per dwelling
                                                       unit
Restaurants                                           1 per 2.5 seats, plus
                                                       employee parking
Retail:                                                
   Convenience - 1,000 square feet or less         1 per 150 square feet
   Convenience - 1,000 square feet or more         1 per 125 square feet
   General merchandise                             1 per 200 square feet to
                                                       1 per 50 square feet
   Personal service (video, copying, etc.)         1 per 125 square feet
   Specialized mercantile (furniture; home sales;  1 per 400 square feet
housewares)
Schools:                                                
Elementary                                            2 per classroom
Middle                                                 4 per classroom
High                                                   12 per classroom
Service:                                                
Merchandise sales                                     1 per 200 square feet
No sales (parts)                                       1 per 400 square feet
Taverns - entertainment                               1 per 2.5 seats
Wholesale establishments                              1 per 2 employees on
                                                       maximum shift
 
Note:
   1.    Minimum parking standards may be adjusted to greater or lesser
capacities to account for location, expected circulation flows, and the
likelihood of conversion by the zoning administrator. Specific uses not
included in this table shall use commonly accepted parking and circulation
standards promulgated by standard site design principles and anticipated
occupancy loads.
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-12-4: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Yard Setbacks: All new parking spaces shall be located within the
building envelope (inside the required front, side, and rear yard setbacks).
When permission to encroach into the setbacks is granted by the zoning
administrator, a yard area must be provided between the right of way and
property lines. The planning commission may grant an exception based on
existing conditions. The minimum requirement for a yard area is as follows:
 
Front yard 10 feet
Side yard  5 feet
Rear yard  5 feet
 
   B.   Ingress And Egress: Each required parking space shall open directly on
an aisle or driveway to provide safe and efficient means of ingress and egress.
   C.   Location: In residential districts, all parking shall be located on the
same zoning lot as the structure or use served, or an adjacent lot under the
same taxpayer's name, unless special permission is granted by the planning
commission for collective or group parking. In all commercial or industrial
districts, parking facilities shall be located within three hundred feet (300')
of the building they are required to serve.
   D.   Disabled Parking Spaces: All commercial uses are required to develop
and designate a "disabled" parking space(s) in conjunction with their business.
All parking spaces for the disabled shall be clearly marked by vertically
mounted signs bearing the international symbol of access. There shall be one
disabled parking space for one to twenty five (25) regular parking spaces and
two (2) disabled parking spaces for twenty six (26) to fifty (50) regular
spaces.
   E.   Lighting: All lighting used to illuminate parking areas shall be
directed away or shielded from residential properties.
   F.   Bumper Guards; Markings: Parking areas shall have adequate bumper
guards to prevent extension or overhang of vehicles beyond property lines or
parking spaces. Parking areas shall have adequate markings for channelization
and movement of vehicles.
   G.   Regular Parking Spaces:
      1.   Off street parking spaces including access drives shall be surfaced
with asphalt, concrete or equivalent dust free surface and shall be graded to
prevent drainage problems.
      2.   Unless otherwise specified in this title or waived by the planning
commission and/or zoning administrator, overflow parking spaces shall be on a
prepared surface of concrete, asphalt, or gravel.
      3.   All regular parking spaces shall be delineated using painted lines
or precast concrete parking blocks.
      4.   The minimum dimension for all regular parking spaces shall be nine
feet (9') in width and twenty feet (20') in depth.
      5.   No parking space(s) shall be permitted between the property line and
curb line or edge of pavement. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-12-5: OFF STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING REQUIREMENTS:
Off street loading and unloading spaces shall be required for property zoned
commercial or industrial, unless waived by the planning commission.
   A.   The loading and unloading spaces shall be provided off street in the
side or rear yard for all uses involving receipt or distribution of materials
or merchandise by motor vehicle or rail.
   B.   All loading and unloading operations shall be located so as to avoid
undue interference with traffic and public use of streets, alleys and walkways.
   C.   The loading space shall include a twelve foot by fifty foot (12' x 50')
loading area for loading and unloading operations and shall have a minimum
height clearance of fourteen feet (14').
   D.   Off street loading spaces shall be surfaced with gravel, asphalt or
concrete and shall be graded so as to prevent drainage problems. (Ord. 1067, 6-
19-2006)
CHAPTER 13
PERMITTED DOWNZONINGS
SECTION:
10-13-1: Purpose And Intent
10-13-2: Permitted Zoning To A Lesser Change
10-13-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The intent of this chapter is to establish the zoning classifications that can
be considered a lesser change than that set forth in the public notice, as
prescribed in Kansas Statutes Annotated 12-757. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-13-2: PERMITTED ZONING TO A LESSER CHANGE:
 
                          Zoning Classification Considered To Be A Lesser
                           Change
Published Zoning Districts AG R-1 R-2 R-3 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2
                          Zoning Classification Considered To Be A Lesser
                           Change
Published Zoning Districts AG R-1 R-2 R-3 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2
AG                                              
R-1                                             
R-2                                             
R-3                                             
C-2                                             
C-3                                             
I-1                                             
I-2                                             
 
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
CHAPTER 14
NONCONFORMING USES AND BUILDINGS
SECTION:
10-14-1: General Provisions
10-14-2: Certificate Of Nonconformity
10-14-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Vested Property Right: A previously legal conforming use is a vested
property right that runs with the land. Therefore, the use cannot be lost from
a sale or transfer of the property. The nonconforming use designation arises
from a use of the land that is lawful but, due to a change in regulations, no
longer "conforms" to current ordinance provisions.
   B.   Authority To Continue: Any structure, building or use of the land
lawfully existing before the effective date hereof shall be allowed to continue
unchanged. If no structural alterations are made in such building, a
nonconforming use of the building may be changed to another nonconforming use
of the same or more restricted use classification. The foregoing provisions
shall also apply to any uses of buildings which may be made nonconforming by
any subsequent amendment or change of the zoning ordinances of this city.
   C.   Change To More Conforming Use: Whenever a nonconforming use of building
has been changed to a more conforming use, such use shall not thereafter be
changed to a less conforming use.
   D.   Damage Or Destruction: A previously legal structure or building that is
damaged to the extent of fifty percent (50%) or more of the assessed value of
the building by fire, flood, wind, tornado or other disaster, may be
reconstructed in a manner that is more conforming to the provisions of these
zoning regulations and does not encroach into an easement or public right of
way. The board of zoning appeals is hereby authorized to grant exceptions to
permit reconstruction when it can be shown in a compellable manner that the
property owner would be left homeless, or in an unsafe position; or, this
provision would work to create an untenable and unfair economic hardship; or,
that the owner is left with no practical or reasonable use of the land.
Restoration must begin within one year after the date of the destruction and be
diligently pursued to completion.
   E.   Alterations: A previously legal use may not be changed, altered, or
expanded beyond twenty five percent (25%) in area unless the contemplated
change would: 1) result in a greater conformity; 2) correct deficiencies
required for licenses or permits; 3) correct deficiencies that would endanger
the life, safety or health of the public or property owners.
   F.   Repair And Maintenance: A previously legal building or use shall be
authorized to make normal maintenance and repair, or restoration to a safe
condition.
   G.   Abandonment Or Discontinuance: A previously legal building or use of
the land that is abandoned for a period of one year or more shall thereafter
not be resumed unless it is in greater conformance to the district regulations.
   H.   Moving: A previously legal building or structure shall not be moved in
whole or in part to another location on the same or any other lot, unless the
entire structure shall conform to the regulations on the zoning district where
it is to be located.
   I.   Vehicle And Junk Yards: The nonconforming use of a building or premises
for the purpose of dismantling or wrecking automobiles or other vehicles of any
kind, or for the purpose of storing junk, scrap iron and scrap material,
including dismantled and wrecked automobiles or other vehicles, or other types
of open storage, and which is located in other than an industrial district,
shall be discontinued within five (5) years from the effective date hereof, and
the buildings or premises thereafter devoted to a use permitted in the district
in which such buildings or premises are located.
   J.   Signs, Bulletin Boards, Billboards: Where land is used for business
signs, bulletin boards or billboards, at the time of passage of the zoning
regulations, and are not in conformance with such regulations, said business
signs, bulletin boards or billboards shall be permitted to remain in place
until such time that they become functionally or structurally obsolete, at
which time such signs shall then be removed. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
10-14-2: CERTIFICATE OF NONCONFORMITY:
   A.   Vested Property Right: A previously legal conforming use is a vested
property right that runs with the land. Therefore, the use cannot be lost from
a sale or transfer of the property. The nonconforming use designation arises
from a use of the land that is lawful but, due to a change in regulations, no
longer "conforms" to current ordinance provisions.
   B.   Certificate Issuance: Any owner may request that the zoning
administrator issue a previously legal conforming use certificate that
specifies:
      1.   The reason(s) for the conflict with ordinance.
      2.   The manner or means of bringing the facility into greater
conformity.
      3.   The restrictions placed on the facility. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
CHAPTER 15
INTERPRETATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-15-1: Use Of Terms And Meanings
10-15-2: Undefined Terms, Words And Phrases
10-15-3: Definitions
10-15-1: USE OF TERMS AND MEANINGS:
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   B.   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number and
the plural number shall include the singular number.
   C.   The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and are not discretionary.
   D.   The word "may" is permissive.
   E.   The word "lot" shall include the words "place" and "parcel".
   F.   The word "building" shall include the word "structure" and shall
include all other improvements of every kind, regardless of similarity to
buildings.
   G.   The phrase "used for" shall include the phrases "arranged for",
"designed for", "intended for", "maintained for", and "occupied for".
   H.   The word "person" shall include the words "individual", "corporation",
"governmental agency", "trust", "estate", "partnership", "association",
"ventures", "joint ventures", or any other legal activity.
   I.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   J.   All measured distances shall be expressed in feet and shall be to the
nearest foot. If a fraction of one-half foot (1/2') or less, the next full
number below shall be used. If a fraction of more than one-half foot (1/2'),
the next full number above shall be used.
   K.   Unless otherwise specified, all distances shall be measured
horizontally.
   L.   Word and terms shall have the meaning set forth, except where otherwise
specifically indicated. Words and terms not defined herein shall be defined as
in "Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary", latest edition. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-
2006)
10-15-2: UNDEFINED TERMS, WORDS AND PHRASES:
   A.   Terms, words and phrases not defined herein, but in need of definition,
shall be processed under the interpretation provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
1067, 6-19-2006)
10-15-3: DEFINITIONS:
ABUT: To touch or to adjoin, or being separated from a common border by a ROW
or other type of easement.
   ACCESSORY USE: A use of land or a building or structure or portion thereof
customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the land or
building or structure and located on the same parcel or zoning lot as the
principal use.
   ADDITION: Any increase to the gross floor area of a structure.
   ADJACENT: To lie near, close to, or in the immediate vicinity of.
   ADULT CARE HOME: A dwelling or similar building of a residential character
which is used or intended to be used to provide housing and care for six (6) or
fewer unrelated ambulatory persons who are eighteen (18) years of age or older
and who are elderly, physically ill or infirm, physically handicapped, mentally
retarded or who have a mental handicap or illness such that they do not require
constant supervision or treatment.
   ADULT USE OR SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: The terminology, words and phrases
used in Kansas Statutes Annotated 12-742, and amendments thereto, shall be used
to define adult uses or sexually oriented businesses.
   AGENT: One who represents another, called the principal, in dealings with
third persons. The agent undertakes some business by authority of the
principal. The principal is the property owner. Typical actions include
obtaining a building permit, applying for a rezoning, subdivision plat,
variance or appeal.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: For the purposes of this title, an
"agricultural building or structure" shall imply any building or structure
existing or erected on land used principally for agricultural purposes.
Agriculture buildings include, but are not limited to: barns, sheds, granaries,
silos, wind towers, structures and buildings for the housing of livestock,
poultry and other marketable animals or fowl, or buildings or structures for
the storage or housing of equipment and machinery or foodstuff produced on the
farm.
   AGRICULTURAL SERVICES: An establishment primarily engaged in providing
services specifically for the agricultural community which is not directly
associated with a farm operation. Included in this use type would be servicing
of agricultural equipment, independent equipment operators, and other related
agricultural services.
   AGRICULTURE: Land which is devoted to the production of plants, animals,
horticultural products, including, but not limited to: forages; grains and feed
crops; dairy animals and dairy products; poultry and poultry products; beef
cattle, sheep, swine and horses; bees and apiary products; trees and forest
products; fruits, nuts and berries; vegetables; or nursery, floral, ornamental
and greenhouse products.
Land devoted to agricultural use shall not include those lands which are used
for recreational purposes, suburban residential acreages, rural homesites or
farm homesites and yard plots whose primary function is for residential or
recreational purposes even though such properties may produce or maintain some
of those plants or animal listed above.
   AIRPORT HAZARD DISTRICT: An airport hazard district is an area or tract of
land designated on the zoning map in which special controls on height of
buildings, generation of smoke, environmental conditions, etc., shall be
imposed on any of the land or structures situated in the district.
   AIRPORT OR AIRCRAFT LANDING FIELD: Any area of land which is used or
intended for use for the landing and taking off of aircraft and any appurtenant
areas which are used or intended for use for airport buildings or other airport
facilities or rights of way, including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage
and tie down areas, hangars and other necessary buildings and open spaces.
   ALLEY: A public or private way which normally affords a secondary means of
access to abutting property. An alley shall not be considered a street.
Further, frontage on an alley shall not be construed as satisfying the
requirements related to frontage on a dedicated street.
   ALTERATION: Any change or rearrangement in the supporting members of an
existing building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or interior
partitions, or any enlargement or reduction of a building or structure, whether
horizontally or vertically, or the moving of a building or a structure from one
location to another. Typical alterations include an addition of bedrooms,
kitchens, and bathrooms to an existing residential structure.
   AMATEUR RADIO TOWER: A structure on which an antenna is installed for the
purpose of transmitting and receiving amateur radio signals erected and
operated by an amateur radio operator licensed by the FCC.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL: Any structure where animals or pets are given medical or
surgical treatment. Use as a kennel, or for other boarding purposes, shall be
limited to short time and fully enclosed boarding and shall only be incidental
to such hospital use. Also a veterinary clinic.
   APARTMENT: One or more rooms in a multiple-family dwelling arranged,
intended or designed as living quarters for an individual, group of
individuals, or a family.
   AREA: The area is a function of the length of bounding sides yielding a
measurement of the surface given in "square" units of length: e.g., square
meters or yards or feet.
   AREA, FLOOR: The floor area is the surface included within the surrounding
exterior walls of a building or portion thereof, exclusive of vent shafts and
courts.
   AREA OF A BUILDING: The total of all floor surfaces, including attached
garages and below grade rooms, expressed in square feet (exclusive of uncovered
porches, terraces and steps).
   ARTERIAL STREET: Any street serving major traffic movements or used
primarily for through traffic, designed primarily as a road to serve collector
streets.
   ASSURANCE: A financial commitment consisting of letters of credit,
construction bonds, cash, or other instruments approved as to form by the city
attorney, to cover the cost of public improvements.
   ATTIC STORY: An attic story is any story situated wholly or partly in the
roof, so designated, arranged, or built so as to be used for business, storage,
or habitation.
   AUTOMOBILE ACCESSORY STORES: Automobile accessory stores are commercial uses
primarily engaged in the business of selling new tires, batteries, or vehicle
parts. Exterior storage areas are not permitted. This definition does not
include "salvage yards".
   AUTOMOBILE CAR WASH: Building, or potion thereof, containing facilities for
washing one or more automobiles at any one time.
   AUTOMOBILE DEALERSHIP: The use of any building, land area or other premises
for the display of new and used automobiles, trucks, vans, or motorcycles for
sale or rent, including any warranty repair work and other major and minor
repair service conducted as an accessory use.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR GARAGE: Any building or premises whose primary use is for
the general repair, engine rebuilding or reconditioning of motor vehicles,
collision service such as body, frame and fender straightening and repair and
painting of motor vehicles.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: Any building or premises whose primary use is
for the dispensing or sale at retail to the public of automobile fuels,
lubricating oil or grease, tires, batteries and other minor automobile
accessories. Services offered may include the installation of tires, batteries
and minor automobile accessories, minor automobile repairs and greasing or
washing of individual automobiles, but do not include major automobile repairs.
See definition of Automobile Repair Garage.
   AWNING: A rooflike cover, temporary in nature, which projects from the wall
of a building or other structure. A light, protective, appurtenance to a
building.
   BASE SETBACK LINE: A point from which all required setbacks are measured.
When no ROW is present, the measurement point shall be along the property line.
   BASEMENT: A basement or walk-out is that portion of a building located below
grade.
   BATHROOM: A room containing bath, water closet or mechanically flushable
device for the disposal of human waste, and a basin with running hot and cold
water and drainage piping or tubing.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ENTERPRISE: A dwelling in which bedrooms are provided for
overnight guests for compensation, on daily or weekly basis, with or without
breakfast. The serving of meals other than breakfast or the serving of
breakfast to other than overnight guests shall be considered a restaurant. The
operator or agent of the operator shall live on the premises.
   BEDROOM: A room in a dwelling which one or more persons may occupy for
sleeping purposes.
   BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS: Shall refer to the Scott City board of zoning
appeals, also referred to in this title as BZA.
   BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel, motel, or bed and breakfast
where lodging and/or meals are provided for guests pursuant to previous
arrangements, but not for the public or transients.
   BORROW PIT: Any place or premises where dirt, soil, sand, gravel, or other
material is removed by excavation or otherwise, below the grade of surrounding
land, for any purpose other than that necessary and incidental to grading or to
building construction or operation on the premises.
   BROADCASTING OR COMMUNICATION TOWER: Any unstaffed facility for the
transmission and/or reception of radio, television, radar, cellular telephone,
personal paging device, specialized mobile radio (SMR), and similar services. A
broadcasting or communication facility usually consists of an equipment shelter
or cabinet, a support tower or other structure used to achieve the necessary
elevation, and the transmission or reception devices or antenna. Excluded are
amateur radio towers, which are described separately.
   BUILDABLE AREA OF A LOT: That portion of a lot bounded by the required
"rear" and "side" yards and the "building setback line".
   BUILDING: Any structure built for the enclosure, protection, shelter, or
support of persons, animals or property of any kind and which is permanently
affixed to the ground. The term "building" shall not include fences.
   BUILDING, ATTACHED: A building having any portion of a wall(s) in common
with an adjoining building.
   BUILDING CODE: The building code of the city of Scott City.
   BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED: Any building separated on all sides from
adjacent open space, or from other buildings, by a permanent roof and by
exterior walls or party walls pierced only by windows and normal entrance or
exit doors.
   BUILDING COVERAGE: That portion of a lot, which when viewed from directly
above, would be covered by any building or structure. For the purposes of this
definition, lot shall include contiguous lots of the same ownership within a
single zoning district which are to be used, developed or built upon as a unit.
   BUILDING, DETACHED: A structure not supported by or appurtenant to another
structure or a building surrounded by an open space on the same lot.
   BUILDING ENVELOPE: The portion of a lot shown in a final plat which may be
used for construction purposes, including: buildings, accessory uses, lateral
fields, lagoons, and parking. Typically, the lot building envelope is the area
bounded by the required setback, side and rear yards. However, because of
conditions arising from soils composition, slope, drainage and other natural
features, the building envelope may be either reduced or increased in size at
the direction of the planning commission.
   BUILDING, FRONT LINE OF: The side of a building which faces the front of the
lot upon which the building is located (see definition of Lot Line, Front).
   BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the curb level, or its
equivalent, opposite the center of the front of a building to the top or the
highest roof beams, in the case of a flat roof; to the deck line of a mansard
roof; and to mean level of the highest gable or slope of a gable, hip or
gambrel roof. Where no curb level has been established, the height of a
building may be measured from the mean elevation of the centerline of the
street fronting the lot.
   BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL: Any building which is arranged, designed, used, or
intended to be used for residential occupancy by one or more families or
lodgers and which includes, but is not limited to, the following types:
   A.   Single-family detached dwellings.
   B.   Two-family dwellings.
   C.   Townhouse dwellings.
   D.   Multiple-family dwellings.
   BUILDING SEPARATION: The minimum horizontal distance between two (2)
buildings on adjacent lots or across a street or alley.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE: The line, perpendicular to the depth of the required
front yard setback and parallel to a front lot line and/or street right of way
line, whichever is greater, at which structures are permitted to be construed
and where "lot width" is measured.
   BULK: A composite term used to indicate the size and setbacks of buildings
or structures and the location of same with respect to one another, and
includes the following:
   A.   Size and height of buildings;
   B.   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines,
streets, or to other buildings;
   C.   Floor area ratio of buildings;
   D.   All open spaces allocated to buildings; and
   E.   Amount of lot area provided per dwelling unit.
   BULK STORAGE: The storage of chemicals, petroleum products and other
materials in aboveground containers for subsequent resale to distributors or
retail dealers or outlets.
   BUSINESS: An occupation, employment, or enterprise which occupies time,
attention, labor and materials, or wherein merchandise is exhibited or sold, or
where services are offered.
   CALIPER: The diameter of the trunk of a tree at the height of twelve inches
(12") above grade.
   CAMP, DAY OR YOUTH: A camp providing facilities for groups of young people
such as YMCA camps, Boy Scout camps and Girl Scout camps.
   CAMPGROUND: An area of land, managed as a unit, providing short term
accommodations for tents, tent trailers, travel trailers, recreational vehicles
and campers.
   CAPACITY IN PERSONS: The "capacity in persons" of an establishment or use is
the maximum number of persons that can avail themselves of the services (or
goods) of such establishment, at any one time, with reasonable comfort.
   CAR WASH: See definition of Automobile Car Wash.
   CARPORT: An open sided roofed automobile shelter, usually formed by
extension of the roof from the side of a building.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: The written approval of the zoning administrator
certifying that a newly constructed structure, addition to an existing
structure, or existing structure undergoing a change in use is in full
compliance with the provisions of this title and that such structure is
habitable and in conformance with all applicable city building codes and
regulations.
   CHILDCARE:
Childcare Center/Preschool: A licensed facility in which care and educational
activities are provided for thirteen (13) or more children two (2) weeks to
sixteen (16) years of age for more than three (3) hours and less than twenty
four (24) hours per day (including daytime, evening, and nighttime care), or
which provides before and after school care for school aged children. A
facility may not have fewer than thirteen (13) children and be licensed as a
center if the program and building meet childcare center regulations. For
facility regulations see Kansas Statutes Annotated 1982 supp. 72-1107(c).
Group Daycare Home: A facility licensed to care for a maximum of twelve (12)
children under fourteen (14) years of age.
Licensed Daycare Home: A facility giving regular care for less than twenty four
(24) hours per day to a maximum of six (6) children under kindergarten age
(includes the family's own children in this age group and 4 additional children
kindergarten age and over, with a maximum of 10 children including the
provider's children).
Registered Family Daycare Home: A licensed facility giving regular care for
less than twenty four (24) hours per day to six (6) or fewer children away from
the child's home. The total must include the family's own children under the
age of sixteen (16), and may not include more than three (3) children under
eighteen (18) months of age (including the family's own children in this age
group).
   CLINIC: A building, the principal use of which is for offices of health
professionals, which contains facilities for the examination and treatment of
patients but not for their lodging.
   CLUB: An organization catering exclusively to members and their guests, or
premises and buildings for social, recreational, or athletic purposes which are
not conducted primarily for gain; provided that any vending stands,
merchandising, or commercial activities are conducted only as required
generally for the membership of such club.
   CLUSTERING: The grouping of structures, courts, cul-de-sacs, or short
streets, more closely than in conventional residential plans, in order to
preserve natural site amenities and open space.
   COLLECTOR STREET: A road which collects traffic from local streets and
serves as the most direct route to an arterial street.
   COMMON ENTRANCE: Any access facility that provides passageway from the
outside to a group of apartments in a garden apartment building or apartment
house.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE: Land within or related to development, not individually
owned or dedicated for public use, that is designed and intended for the common
use or enjoyment of the residents and their guests of the development and may
include such complementary structures and improvements as are necessary and
appropriate. Common open spaces do not include streets, alleys, off street
parking or loading areas or other facilities dedicated by the developer.
   COMMUNICATION SERVICES: Establishments primarily engaged in the provision of
broadcasting and other information relay services accomplished through the use
of electronic and telephonic mechanisms. Excluded from this use type are
facilities classified as major utility services or broadcasting or
communication towers. Typical uses include television studios,
telecommunication service centers, telegraph service offices or film and sound
recording facilities.
   COMPATIBLE USE: Any property, use, or service which is capable of direct
association with certain other uses because it is complementary, congruous, or
otherwise not detrimental.
   CONDITIONAL USE: A use that, owing to some special characteristics attendant
to its operation or installation, is permitted in a district subject to
approval by the planning commission and subject to special requirements,
different from those usual requirements for the district in which the
conditional use may be located.
   CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A "conforming building" or "conforming
structure" is any building or structure which:
   A.   Complies with all the regulations of this title or of any amendment
hereto governing bulk for the zoning district in which such building or
structure is located; or
   B.   Is designed or intended for a conforming use.
   CONSERVATION EASEMENT: An easement granting a right of interest in real
property that is appropriate to retaining land or water areas in their natural
state.
   CONTIGUOUS: In contact, adjoining, or touching another object or item, as
distinguished from being adjacent.
   CONVALESCENT HOME: See definition of Nursing Home Or Rest Home.
   CURB LEVEL: The level of the established curb in the front of a building or
other structure measured at the center of such front. Where no curb elevation
has been established, the mean elevation of the centerline of the street
fronting the lot shall be considered the curb level.
   DECIBEL: A unit measuring the intensity or loudness of sound.
   DENSITY, GROSS: The numerical value obtained by dividing the total number of
dwelling units in a development by the gross area of the tract of land (in
acres) within a development. This would include all nonresidential land uses
and private streets of the development, as well as rights of way of dedicated
streets; the result being the number of dwelling units per gross acre of land.
   DENSITY, NET: The numerical value obtained by dividing the total number of
dwelling units in a development by the area of the actual tract of land (in
acres) upon which the dwelling units are proposed to be located and including
common open space and associated recreational facilities within the area; the
result being the number of dwelling units per net residential acre of land. Net
density calculations exclude rights of way of publicly dedicated streets and
private streets.
   DETENTION: The temporary on site storage of storm water.
   DISTRICT: A portion of the territory of the city of Scott City where certain
uniform regulations and requirements, or various combinations thereof, apply
under the provisions of this title.
   DRAINAGE FACILITY: Any ditch, gutter, pipe, culvert storm sewer, or other
structure designed, intended, or constructed for the purpose of diverting
surface waters from, or carrying surface waters off streets, public rights of
way, parks, recreational areas, or any part of any subdivision or contiguous
land areas.
   DRIVE-IN AND/OR TAKEOUT ESTABLISHMENT: A place of business operated for the
retail sale and purchase of food and other goods, services, or entertainment,
which is laid out and equipped so as to allow its patrons to be served or
accommodated while remaining in their automobiles, or which allows the
consumption of food or beverages in automobiles on the premises or elsewhere on
the premises, but outside any completely enclosed structures. If, in addition
to the consumption of any food or beverages in automobiles or elsewhere on the
premises outside any completely enclosed structure, an establishment also
allows for the consumption of such products within a completely enclosed
structure, it shall be considered a drive-in and/or takeout establishment.
   DRIVEWAY: A pathway for motor vehicles from a street to a parcel of land
used only for service purposes or for access to the parcel. A driveway is
privately owned.
   DWELLING: A building, or portion thereof designed or used exclusively for
human habitation, including single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings,
townhouse dwellings, and multiple-family dwellings, but not including hotels or
motels.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building designed exclusively for human
habitation containing three (3) or more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building designed exclusively for human
habitation containing one dwelling unit and intended for occupancy by one
family.
   DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE: A building designed exclusively for human habitation
containing two (2) or more dwelling units where each dwelling unit is attached
to another dwelling unit by a vertical wall, with each dwelling unit having an
individual entrance, not accessible from the entrance of any other dwelling
unit and not overlapping any part of another dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed exclusively for human habitation
containing two (2) dwelling units.
   DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms, including individualized bathroom or
kitchen facilities, which are arranged, designed, or used as living quarters
for one family or household.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS: Any public, parochial, private or charitable, or
nonprofit school, junior college, or university, other than trade or business
schools, including instructional and recreational uses, with or without living
quarters, dining rooms, restaurants, heating plants, and other incidental
facilities for students, teachers and employees.
   EFFICIENCY UNIT: A dwelling unit consisting of one principal room exclusive
of bathroom, kitchen, hallway, closets, or dining alcove directly off the
principal room, providing such dining alcove.
   ESTABLISHMENT, BUSINESS: Any place of business carrying on operations, the
ownership and management of which are separate and distinct from those of any
other place of business located on the same zoning lot.
   FAMILY: A "family" consists of one or more persons each related to the other
by blood, marriage, or adoption (including foster children), together with such
relatives of the respective spouses who are living with the family in a single
dwelling and maintaining a common household. A family may also be composed of
no more than three (3) unrelated persons, provided that such unrelated persons
live in a single dwelling and maintain a common household and a single
housekeeping unit.
   FARM: Land being utilized for agricultural purposes.
   FENCE: A structure used as a boundary, screen, separation, means of privacy,
protection or confinement, and is constructed of wood, plastic, metal, wire
mesh, masonry or other similar material and is used as a barrier of some sort.
   FRONTAGE: The length of all the property fronting on one side of a street
between the two (2) nearest intersecting streets, measured along the line of
the street, or if dead ended, then all of the property abutting on one side
between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
   GARAGE, COMMERCIAL: A building or portion thereof, other than a private
garage, designed or used for equipping, servicing, repairing, hiring, selling,
storing, or parking motor vehicles. The term repairing shall not include an
automotive body repair shop or the rebuilding, dismantling, or storage of
wrecked or junked vehicles, unless expressly authorized.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or portion of a principal
building, designed, arranged, used or intended to be used for the storage of
motor vehicles owned and operated exclusively by the occupants of the premises
and their guests.
   GLARE: The effect produced by brightness sufficient to cause annoyance,
discomfort, or loss in visual performance and visibility.
   GRADE: The average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to
the exterior walls of the building or structure.
   GRADING: The reshaping of natural land contours, using natural land
materials such as soil, gravel, sand, black dirt, etc., for the purpose of
eliminating erosion or sedimentation problems, creating or improving surface
drainage, providing for the natural aesthetic contouring of property, or to
accommodate a building plan by making minor changes in land elevation.
   HEIGHT OF STRUCTURE: The "height of a structure", other than that of
buildings (for height of buildings see definition of Building Height), is the
vertical distance from the ground level measured at a ninety degree (90°) angle
from the highest point of said structure.
   HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation or profession conducted within a dwelling
unit and complies with all the regulations of this title.
   HOSPICE: A medical facility, either in a commercial or residential building,
for the care of terminally ill people, including accommodations for their
families.
   HOSPITAL: A "hospital or sanitarium" is an institution devoted primarily to
the maintenance and operation of facilities for the diagnosis, treatment, or
care for not less than twenty four (24) hours in any week, of three (3) or more
nonrelated individuals suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity, or
other abnormal physical conditions.
   HOTEL: An establishment which provides lodging for transient guests in
return for monetary reward and which provides customary hotel services, such as
maid service, the furnishing and laundering of linen, telephone and desk
service, the use and upkeep of furniture.
   INCOMPATIBLE USE: A use or service which is incapable of direct association
with certain other uses because it is contradictory, incongruous, or
discordant.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK: A special or exclusive type of planned industrial area
designed and equipped to accommodate a variety of industries, providing them
with all necessary facilities and services in attractive surroundings among
compatible neighbors.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE OR EQUIPMENT: A motorized vehicle or a machine which is
not in a condition to be operated in the normal or customary manner.
   JUNK OR SCRAP YARD/SALVAGE YARD: An open area where junk, waste, scrap,
discarded or salvaged materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled,
packed, disassembled, or handled, including, but not limited to, scrap iron and
other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires and bottles. "Junkyard" includes
automobile wrecking or salvage yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards
and places or yards for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel
materials and equipment, but does not include uses established entirely within
enclosed buildings.
   JUNK VEHICLE: An automobile, truck, or other motor vehicle which has been
damaged to such an extent that it cannot be operated under its own power and
will require major repairs before being made usable or such a vehicle which
does not comply with state, county or city laws or ordinances.
   KENNEL: A place, licensed or unlicensed, where four (4) or more dogs (not
including their immature offspring) or other domesticated pets are maintained,
boarded, bred, or cared for, or are kept for the purpose of sale, or maintained
for humane reasons.
   LANDFILL, DUMP: A site where refuse is deposited in a haphazard manner
without adequate control of the operation.
   LANDSCAPING: The improvement of the appearance of an area by the planting of
trees, grass, shrubs, or other plant materials, or by the alteration of the
contours of the ground.
   LIVESTOCK SALES YARD: An enclosure or structure designed or used for the
purpose of holding livestock for sale or transfer by auction, consignment, or
other means.
   LOT: A single parcel of land under unified ownership or control. A lot can
be either a lot of record or a zoning lot.
   LOT AREA, GROSS: The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side
and rear lot lines.
   LOT, BUILDABLE AREA: The space remaining on a zoning lot after the minimum
open space requirements of this title have been complied with.
   LOT CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) streets, the
interior angle of such intersection not exceeding one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°). On a "corner lot", the front lot line shall be the lot line
having the shorter dimension along the street line.
   LOT COVERAGE: The "lot coverage" of a lot is the area of a lot occupied by
the principal and accessory buildings.
   LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line of a lot, measured within the lot boundaries.
   LOT, FLAG: A lot having access to a public street by means of a private
driveway, access easement, or other private means. Flag lots are prohibited by
this title.
   LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner or reversed corner lot.
   LOT LINE: A property boundary line of any lot. When a lot extends to an
abutting street or alley, the lot line shall be the closest street or alley
line.
   LOT LINE, FRONT: That boundary of a lot along an existing or dedicated
public street, or where no public street exists, along a public way; where such
public way is not a dedicated street the right of way of such public way shall
be deemed to be sixty feet (60'), unless otherwise provided.
   LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is most distant from, and is,
or is most nearly, parallel to, the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the Scott County register of deeds; or a parcel
of land which was lawfully recorded prior to the adoption and enactment of this
comprehensive amendment to the city of Scott City zoning ordinance.
   LOT, REVERSED CORNER: A corner lot, the street side lot line of which is
substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the first lot to its
rear.
   LOT, THROUGH: A lot having a pair of opposite lot lines along two (2) more
or less parallel public streets and which is not a corner lot.
   LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot
measured within the lot boundary at the building setback line.
   LOT, ZONING: A single tract of land located within a single block, which is
designated by its owner or developer as a tract to be used, developed, or built
upon as a unit, under single ownership or control.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure designed after July 1, 1976, for permanent
habitation, transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling mode
is twelve (12) body feet or more in width or forty (40) body feet or more in
length, or, when erected on site, is four hundred eighty (480) or more square
feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation. A manufactured home shall
contain one dwelling unit.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, RESIDENTIALLY DESIGNED: See section
10-9-5 of this title.
   MARQUEE OR CANOPY: A rooflike structure of a permanent nature which projects
from the wall of a building.
   MOBILE HOME: A structure designed prior to July 1, 1976, for permanent
habitation and so constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily
or permanently attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the
location, or subsequent locations, at which it is intended to be a permanent
home and designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one
or more persons. Even if structure rests on a permanent foundation, with
wheels, tongue, hitch and axle or lug bolts permanently removed, it shall be
construed as a mobile home. A mobile home may be with or without mechanical
power.
   MOBILE OR MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: An area of land or lands upon which three
(3) or more independent mobile homes are harbored either free of charge or for
revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle, or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such mobile
home park. A mobile home park shall not include a sales lot or unoccupied
mobile homes for the purpose of inspection and sale.
   MOTEL: An establishment which provides lodging for transient guests,
arriving in motor vehicles, in return for monetary reward and which provides
customary hotel services such as maid service, the furnishing and laundering of
linen, telephone and desk service, the use and upkeep of furniture and bellboy
service. A typical motel consists of a number of bedrooms united under one
roof, but having individual entrances and with adequate parking available
nearby.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building or area in which freight brought by motor
truck is assembled and/or stored for routing in intrastate shipment by motor
truck.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Any passenger vehicle, motorcycle, recreational vehicle,
truck, truck-trailer, or semitrailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Any building or structure and the use
thereof or the use of land that does not conform with the regulations of this
title or any amendment hereto governing use in the district in which it is
located, but conformed with all of the codes, ordinances and other legal
requirements applicable at the time such building or structure was erected,
enlarged, or altered, and the use thereof or the use of land was established.
   NONCONFORMING USE: Any use of land, buildings, or structures which use is
not permitted in the zoning district in which such use is located.
   NURSING HOME OR REST HOME: A home for the aged, chronically ill, care of
children, infirm or incurable persons, or a place of rest for those suffering
bodily disorders in which three (3) or more persons, not members of the
immediate family residing on the premises, are received, kept or provided with
food, shelter and care; but not including hospitals, clinics, or similar
institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of disease or
injury, maternity cases, or mental illness.
   OCCUPANCY: The period during which one owns, rents, uses, or occupies a
certain premises or land.
   OCCUPANT: A person who, on a regular basis, spends nights at a residence. A
person is considered an occupant regardless of whether they spend the majority
of their nights at a residence, if the times they do stay overnight are regular
and recurrent. In addition, a person shall be considered an occupant if their
clothes or other daily living supplies are maintained at the residence.
   ODOROUS MATTER: Any matter that yields an odor which is offensive in any
way.
   OPEN SPACE: That portion of land and/or water not devoted to buildings or
other structures, parking or loading areas, driveways, or any principal or
accessory use.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE: The keeping, in other than a building, of any goods,
materials, or merchandise on the same parcel for more than twenty four (24)
consecutive hours.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT: A district established by this title to prescribe special
regulations to be applied to a site in combination with the underlying or base
district.
   PARKING FACILITY: A site for surface parking or a parking structure
unrelated to a specific use which provides one or more parking spaces together
with driveways, aisles, turning and maneuvering areas, incorporated landscaped
areas, and similar features meeting the requirements established by this title.
This use type shall not include parking facilities accessory to a permitted
principal use.
   PARKING LOT AREA: The square foot area of the parking spaces and aisles and
interior parking lot islands, excluding access drives that do not have parking
spaces within them.
   PARTICULATE MATTER: Material, other than water, which is suspended in or
discharged into the atmosphere in a finely divided form as a liquid or solid.
   PERMITTED USE: A use which is permitted "by right" in a particular zoning
district. It is contrasted with special (conditional) uses which are authorized
only if certain requirements are met and after review and the appropriate city
boards grant approval. Permitted uses are normally principal uses of land.
   PLACE OF WORSHIP: A facility or institution which people regularly attend to
participate in or hold religious services, meetings, other activities. A "place
of worship" for the purpose of this title, shall only mean a building which has
been specifically constructed or adapted to a place of assembly and not a
dwelling unit.
   PLANNING COMMISSION: The planning commission of the city of Scott City.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING: The main building upon a lot, or the building which
houses the principal use of the premises.
   PRINCIPAL USE: The primary use of land or structures as distinguished from a
secondary or accessory use. A house is a principal use in a residential area; a
garage or pool is an accessory use.
   QUARRY, SAND PIT, GRAVEL PIT, TOPSOIL STRIPPING: A lot or parcel or tract,
used for the purpose of extracting stone, sand, gravel or topsoil for sale, and
as an industrial operation, and exclusive of the process of grading a lot
preparatory to the construction of a building for which application for a
permit has been made.
   QUARTER-QUARTER: A quarter of a quarter section of land (1/16 of 640 acres
or approximately 40 acres).
   RECORDING (Of A Document): To officially record a document in the office of
the county register of deeds.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any unit designed primarily for living or sleeping
purposes, equipped with wheels or placed upon a wheeled device for the purpose
of transporting from place to place. This term shall include, but not be
limited to, camping trailers, campers, mobile homes, tent trailers, motor
coaches, tent campers and shall also include those wheeled devices upon which
they are placed.
   RESTAURANT: Any establishment whose principal business is the sale of food
for consumption, in nondisposable containers, at tables located on the
premises.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN: An establishment primarily engaged in the preparation
of food and beverages, for either takeout, delivery or table service, served in
disposable containers at a counter and a drive-up or drive-through service
facility or which offers curb service.
   RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD (CARRYOUT): An establishment primarily engaged in the
preparation of food and beverages, for either takeout, delivery or table
service, served in disposable containers at a counter. This use type does not
employ a drive-up or drive-through service facility, and does not offer curb
service.
   RETENTION: The permanent on site maintenance of storm water.
   RIGHT OF WAY, PUBLIC: An accessway dedicated to public use.
   RIGHT OF WAY, RAILROAD: A strip of land with tracks and appurtenant track
operational facilities.
   SCREENING: Fencing with or without shrubs or coniferous vegetation
maintained for the purpose of concealing from view the area behind such
structures. All fencing shall be constructed from weather resistant or treated
wood or equivalent materials. If the fence is used as security barrier,
chainlink with inserted wood slats may also be employed. Either a six (6) or
eight foot (8') separation must be used between upright poles inserted to at
least a depth of three feet (3').
   SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between a lot line and the nearest
side of a building or other structure, located on a particular zoning lot, to
such lot line.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE: The triangular space formed by the street lines of a corner
lot and a line drawn from a point in one street line to a point in the other
street line, each such point being fifteen feet (15') from the point of
intersection of the street lines (measured along the street lines). Where the
two (2) street lines do not intersect at a point, the point of intersection of
the street lines shall be deemed to be the intersection of the projection of
the street lines or the intersection of the tangents to the street lines.
   SITE OR LOT COVERAGE: A percentage figure indicating that portion of a site
covered by principal and accessory buildings, parking area, private streets,
access drives, etc. Normally, land not considered in the site coverage
computation is classified as open space.
   STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above, or if there is no floor above, the
space between the floor and the ceiling next above.
   STREET: A public or private right of way which affords a primary means of
vehicular access to abutting property, but does not include alleys or driveways
to buildings.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change, other than incidental repairs, which
would prolong the life of supporting members of a building, such as the
addition, removal, or alteration of bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or
foundations.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, erected or placed, which requires location
in or on the ground or is attached to something having a location on the
ground.
   SURFACE WATER ELEVATION: The normal water level elevation of a lake, stream,
or streambed as depicted on United States geological survey (USGS) floodplain
topographic maps. If "surface water elevation" datum specified by the Kansas
department of transportation-division of water resources is more current than
USGS floodplain topographic maps, division of water resources information may
be used.
   TOXIC OR NOXIOUS SUBSTANCES: Any solid, liquid or gaseous matter, including,
but not limited to, gases, vapors, dusts, fumes and mists containing properties
which by chemical means are inherently harmful and likely to destroy life and
impair health, or capable of causing injury to the well being of persons or
damage to property.
   TRAILER: Any vehicle, house car, camp car, recreational vehicle, or any
portable or mobile vehicle on wheels, jacks, horses, skids, or blocks, and with
or without automotive power; which is used, adapted, or designed for living,
sleeping, business, trade, occupation or storage purposes. Normally, such
occupancy is on a temporary or transient basis.
   TRAILER-CAMPER PARKS: A residential facility designed, used, or intended to
be used to accommodate the overnight or temporary location, hookup, or use of
its facilities for travel trailers, camp trailers and recreational vehicles.
   USE: The purpose or activity for which the land, or building thereon, is
designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, and
shall include any manner of performance of such activity with respect to the
performance standards of this title.
   VARIATION: A device which grants a property owner relief from certain
provisions of this zoning ordinance when, because of the particular physical
surroundings, shape or topographical condition of the property, compliance
would result in a particular hardship, as distinguished from a mere
inconvenience or a desire to make more money, or a practical hardship owing to
circumstances which do not occur generally to land or buildings in the
neighborhood.
   VESTED PROPERTY RIGHT: A right that has become fixed. Vested rights are
often established by showing that some development permit (road, water,
sanitary sewer, or building permit) has been obtained and substantial
construction started on the project.
   WAREHOUSE: A structure, or part thereof, or area used principally for the
storage of goods and merchandise.
   WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM, INDIVIDUAL: The "water supply system" of a building or
premises consists of the water service pipe, the water distribution pipes and
the necessary connecting pipes, fittings, control valves, and all appurtenances
in or adjacent to the building or premises.
   WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM, PUBLIC: A "public water supply system" means
collectively all property involved in a water utility including land, water
sources, collection systems, dams and hydraulic structures, distribution
systems and other appurtenances, pumping stations, treatment works and general
properties, or any parts thereof.
   WELL: An underground source of water made accessible by drilling or digging
to the level of the water table.
   WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT: A business establishment principally engaged in
selling to retailers or distributors rather than consumers.
   YARD: An open area on a lot extending along a lot line and to a depth or
width specified in the yard requirements of the zoning district in which such
lot is located.
   YARD, CORNER SIDE: A side yard which adjoins a public street.
   YARD, FRONT: An open unoccupied space on the same lot with the main building
extending the full width of the lot and extending the full width of the
building and the front line of the lot.
   YARD, INTERIOR SIDE: A side yard which is located immediately adjacent to
another zoning lot or to an alley separating such side yard from another zoning
lot.
   YARD, REAR: An open unoccupied space on the same lot with the building
between the rear of the building and the rear lot line of the lot and extending
the full width of the lot. Covered porches, whether enclosed or unenclosed,
shall be considered a part of the building and shall not project into the
required rear yard.
   YARD, SIDE: A yard extending along a side lot line from the front yard to
the rear yard to a width specified as the side yard requirements in each zoning
district.
   ZERO LOT LINE RESIDENCE: A detached single-family dwelling unit which is
built to one of the side lot lines; generally constructed within a planned unit
development or when clustering residential units.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: A person appointed by the city council who is vested
with certain defined administrative responsibilities regarding the
implementation and enforcement of this title.
   ZONING DISTRICT (ZONE): A section or sections of the land area incorporated
within the city of Scott City for which the regulations and requirements
governing use, lot and bulk of buildings and premises are uniform.
   ZONING LOT: A parcel or tract of land used, developed, or built upon as a
unit under single ownership or control. The parcel or tract may consist of one
or more lots of record, one or more portions of a lot or lots of record, or any
combination; and shall be contiguous parcels. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
CHAPTER 16
MUNICIPAL AIRPORT HAZARD ZONING
SECTION:
10-16-1: Intent
10-16-2: Short Title
10-16-3: Definitions
10-16-4: Airport Zones Established
10-16-5: Airport Zone Height Limitations
10-16-6: Use Restrictions
10-16-7: Nonconforming Uses
10-16-8: Permits
10-16-9: Enforcement
10-16-10: Penalty For Violation
10-16-11: Conflicting Regulations
10-16-12: Board Of Zoning Appeals
10-16-13: Appeals
10-16-14: Judicial Review
10-16-1: INTENT:
Regulate and restrict the height of structures and objects of natural growth,
and otherwise regulating the use of property, in the vicinity of the Scott City
Municipal Airport by creating the appropriate zones and establishing the
boundaries thereof; providing for changes in the restrictions and boundaries of
such zones; defining certain terms used herein; referring to the Scott City
Municipal Airport Airspace Plan (Part 77) Map or its successors or amendments
thereto, which is incorporated in and made a part of this chapter; providing
for enforcement; establishing a Board of Zoning Appeals; and imposing
penalties.
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority conferred by Chapter 3 of
Statutes of the State of Kansas. It is hereby found that an obstruction has the
potential for endangering the lives and property of users of the Scott City
Municipal Airport, and property of occupants of land in its vicinity; that an
obstruction may affect existing and future instrument approach minimums of the
Scott City Municipal Airport; and that an obstruction may reduce the size of
areas available for the landing, takeoff, and maneuvering of aircraft, thus
tending to destroy or impair the utility of the Scott City Municipal Airport
and the public investment therein. Accordingly, it is declared:
   A.   That the creation or establishment of an obstruction has the potential
of being a public nuisance and may injure the region served by the Scott City
Municipal Airport;
   B.   That it is necessary in the interest of the public health, public
safety, and general welfare that the creation or establishment of obstructions
that are a hazard to air navigation be prevented; and
   C.   That the prevention of these obstructions should be accomplished, to
the extent legally possible, by the exercise of the police power without
compensation.
It is further declared that the prevention of the creation or establishment of
hazards to air navigation, the elimination, removal, alteration or mitigation
of hazards to air navigation, or marking and lighting of obstructions are
public purposes for which a political subdivision may raise and expend public
funds and acquire land or interests in land. (Ord. 1263, 2-5-2024)
10-16-2: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “Scott City Municipal Airport
Hazard Zoning”. (Ord. 1263, 2-5-2024)
10-16-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meaning ascribe to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
AIRPORT:      The Scott City Municipal Airport.
AIRPORT       The official height published for the Airport on the Federal Aviation
ELEVATION:    Administration approved Airport Layout Plan, measured in feet above mean sea
              level.
              Any structure or object of natural growth located on or in the vicinity of a
AIRPORT       public airport, or any use of land near such airport, which obstructs the
HAZARD:       airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or takeoff at such
              airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or takeoff of aircraft.
APPROACH,
TRANSITIONAL, These zones apply to the area under the approach, transitional, horizontal and
HORIZONTAL    conical surfaces defined in Federal Aviation Regulation Part 77.
AND CONICAL
ZONES.
THE BOARD OF
ZONING        The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of the setting Planning Commission.
APPEALS:
CITY PLANNING A board as established under Title 10, Chapter 2, Section 10-2-1 of the Scott
COMMISSION:   City Code of Ordinances.
              For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth in this
HEIGHT:       chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea level elevation
              unless otherwise specified.
              A runway having an existing instrument approach procedure utilizing air
NONPRECISION  navigation facilities with only horizontal guidance, or area-type navigation
INSTRUMENT    equipment, for which a straight-in nonprecision instrument approach procedure
RUNWAY:       has been approved or planned, and for which no precision approach facilities are
              planned or indicated on an FAA planning document or military service’s military
              airport planning document.
              An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association, joint stock
PERSON:       association or governmental entity. It includes a trustee, receiver, assignee or
              similar representative of any of them.
              A runway having an existing instrument approach procedure utilizing an
PRECISION     Instrument Landing System or a Precision Approach Radar. It also means a runway
INSTRUMENT    for which a precision approach system is planned and is so indicated on an FAA-
RUNWAY:       approved airport layout plan or a military service’s military airport planning
              document.
              A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway has a specially
PRIMARY       prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends 200 feet beyond each end of
SURFACE:      that runway; but when the runway has no specially prepared hard surface, or
              planned hard surface, the primary surface ends at each end of that runway.
              The “width of the primary surface” of a runway will be that width prescribed in
              Part 77 of the Federal Aviation Regulations for the most precise approach
             existing or planned for either end of that runway. The elevation of any point on
              the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the
              runway centerline.
RUNWAY:       A defined area of an airport prepared for the landing and takeoff of aircraft
              along its length.
              An object constructed or installed by man, including, but without limitation,
STRUCTURE:    buildings, towers, smokestacks, earth formations and overhead transmission
              lines.
TREE:         Any object of natural growth.
UTILITY       A runway that is constructed for an intended use by propeller driven aircraft of
RUNWAY:       12,500 pounds maximum gross weight and less.
              A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using visual approach
VISUAL        procedures with no straight-in instrument approach procedure and no instrument
RUNWAY:       designation indicated on an FAA-approved airport layout plan, a military
              service’s approved military airport layout plan, or by a planning document
              submitted to the FAA by competent authority. (Ord. 1263, 2-5-2024)
 
10-16-4: AIRPORT ZONES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Zones defined. In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter,
there are hereby created and established certain zones which include all of the
land lying within the approach zones, transitional zones, horizontal zones, and
conical zones as they apply to the Scott City Municipal Airport. Such zones are
shown on the “Airspace Plan (Part 77)” sheet from the Airport Layout Plan
drawings, prepared in coordination with the Airport Manager, approved by the
Federal Aviation Administration, which is attached and made a part of this
chapter by reference. An area located in more than one of the following zones
is considered to be only in the zone with the more restrictive height
limitation. The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows:
      1.   Utility Runway Visual Approach Zone. The inner edge of the utility
runway visual approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and
is 250 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of
1,250 feet at a horizontal distance of 5, 000 feet from the primary surface,
its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      2.   Utility Runway Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zone. - The inner
edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and
is 500 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of
2,000 feet at a horizontal distance 5,000 feet from the primary surface. Its
centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      3.   Runway Larger Than Utility Visual Approach Zone. The inner edge of
this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 500
feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 1,500 feet
at a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the primary surface, its centerline
being the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      4.   Runway Larger Than Utility with A Visibility Minimum Greater Than
Three-Fourths-Mile Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zone. The inner edge of
this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 500
feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 3,500 feet
at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface, its
centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      5.   Runway Larger Than Utility with A Visibility Minimum as Low as
Three-Fourths-Mile Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zone. The inner edge of
this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 1,000
feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 4,000 feet
at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface, its
centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      6.   Precision Instrument Runway Approach Zone. The inner edge of the
precision instrument runway approach zone coincides with the width of the
primary surface and is 1,000 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward
uniformly to a width of 16,000 feet at a horizontal distance of 50,000 feet
from the primary surface, its centerline being the continuation of the
centerline of the runway.
      7.   Transitional Zones. Transitional zones are hereby established as the
area beneath the transitional surfaces. These surfaces extend outward and
upward at a 90-degree angle to the runway centerline and the runway centerline
extended at a slope of seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically from
the sides of the primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the
horizontal and conical surfaces. Transitional zones for those portions of the
precision approach zones which project through and beyond the limits of the
conical surface extend a distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the
edge of the approach and at 90-degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
      8.   Horizontal Zone. The horizontal zone is hereby established by
swinging arcs of specified radii from the center of each end of the primary
surface to each runway. The radius of each arc is 5,000 feet for all runways
designated as utility or visual; and 10,000 feet for all other runways. The
radius of the arc specified for each end of a runway will have the same
arithmetical value. That value will be the highest determined for either end of
the runway. When a 5,000-foot arc is encompassed by tangents connecting two
adjacent 10,000-foot areas, the 5,000-foot arc shall be disregarded on the
construction of the perimeter of the horizontal surface, and connecting the
adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to those arcs. The horizontal zone does
not include the approach and transitional zones.
      9.   Conical Zone. The conical zone is hereby established as the area
that commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward
there from a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet. The conical zone does not
include the precision instrument approach zones and the transitional zones.
   B.   Determination of zones where uncertainty may arise. The location of all
zones as indicated and described on the “Scott City Municipal Airport Airspace
Plan (Part 77)” Map shall prevail where there is uncertainty in application to
any or all lands located within such zones. Such Determination of the zones,
including all real property, shall be made by scaling and using mathematical
methods in conjunction with property descriptions. The responsibility for
making such determination shall be with the Airport Manager. (Ord. 1263, 2-5-
2024)
10-16-5: AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure or tree
shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow, or be maintained in any zone
created by this chapter to a height in excess of the height limitations are
hereby etablished for each of the zones in question as follows:
      1.   Utility Runway Visual Approach Zone. Slopes upward 20 feet
horizontally for each foot vertically, being at the end of and at the same
elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of
5,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
      2.   Utility Runway Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zone. Slopes upward
20 feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the end of and at
the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal
distance of 5,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
      3.   Runway Larger Than Utility Visual Approach Zone. Slopes upward 20
feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the end of and at the
same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of
5,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
      4.   Runway Larger Than Utility with A Visibility Minimum Greater Than
Three-Fourths-Mile Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zone. Slopes upward 34 feet
horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the end of and at the same
elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of
10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
      5.   Runway Larger Than Utility with A Visibility Minimum as Low as
Three-Fourths-Mile Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zone. Slopes upward 34 feet
horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the end of and at the same
elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of
10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
      6.   Precision Instrument Runway Approach Zone. Slopes upward 50 feet
horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the end of and at the same
elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of
10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline; thence slopes upward 40 feet
horizontally for each foot vertically to an additional horizontal distance of
40,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
      7.   Transitional Zones. Slopes upward and outward seven feet
horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the sides of and at the same
elevation as the primary surface and the approach zones, and extending to a
height of 150 feet above the airport elevation which is 3656 feet above mean
sea level at the Scott City Municipal Airport. In addition to the foregoing,
there are established height limits sloping upward and outward seven feet
horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the sides of and at the same
elevation as the approach zones, and extending to where they intersect the
conical surface. Where the precision instrument runway approach zone projects
beyond the conical zone, height limits sloping upward and outward seven feet
horizontally for each foot vertically shall be maintained beginning at the
sides and at the same elevation as the precision instrument runway approach
surface, and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet measured at 90-
degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
      8.   Horizontal Zone. One hundred fifty feet above the airport elevation
or a height of 3806 feet above mean sea level at Scott City Municipal Airport.
      9.   Conical Zone. Slopes upward and outward 20 feet horizontally for
each foot vertically beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at
150 feet above the airport elevation and extending to a height of 350 feet
above the airport elevation.
   B.   When an area is covered by more than one height limitation, the more
restrictive limitation shall prevail. (Ord. 1263, 2-5-2024)
10-16-6: USE RESTRICTIONS:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of
land or water within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner as
to:
   A.   Create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between airport and aircraft;
   B.   Make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and
others;
   C.   Result in a glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport;
   D.   Impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport; or
   E.   Otherwise in any way create a hazard or endanger the landing, takeoff
or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport. (Ord. 1263, 2-5-2024)
10-16-7: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this chapter
shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering or other changes or
alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the
effective date of this chapter, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of
nonconforming use.
   B.   Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (A)
of this section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is
hereby required to permit the installation, operation and maintenance thereon
of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Airport Manager
to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the
presence of such airport hazards. Such markers and lights shall be installed,
operated and maintained at the expense of the City of Scott City. (Ord. 1263,
2-5-2024)
10-16-8: PERMITS:
   A.   Future uses. No material change shall be made in the use of land and no
structure or tree shall be erected, altered, planted or otherwise established
in any zone created under this chapter unless a permit therefore shall have
been applied for and granted.
      1.   However, a permit for a tree or structure of less than 75 feet of
vertical height above the ground shall not be required in the horizontal and
conical zones or in any approach and transitional zones beyond a horizontal
distance of 14,000 feet from each end of the runway except when such tree or
structure, because of terrain, land contour or topographic features, would
extend above the height limit prescribed for the respective zone.
      2.   Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which
the permit is desired, with sufficient particulars to determine whether the
resulting use, structure or tree would conform to the regulations prescribed in
this chapter. If such determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be
granted.
   B.   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a nonconforming use,
structure or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date of this chapter, or than it is when the application for a
permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for such a permit shall
be granted.
   C.   Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the City determines
that a nonconforming tree or structure has been abandoned or more than 70
percent torn down, physically deteriorated or decayed, no permit shall be
granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the applicable height
limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
   D.   Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use his property not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in this chapter may apply to the
City Planning Commission for a variance from such regulations. The application
for variance shall be accompanied by a determination from the Federal Aviation
Administration as to the effect of the proposal on the operation of air
navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable airspace. Such
variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or
enforcement of the regulations would result in practical difficulty or
unnecessary hardship and relief granted would not be contrary to the public
interest but will do substantial justice and be in accordance with the spirit
of this chapter.
   E.   Hazard marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted, if such
action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter and to be
reasonable under the circumstances, may be so conditioned as to require the
owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate and maintain, at
the owner’s expense thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to
indicate to pilots the presence of an airport hazard. (Ord. 1263, 2-5-2024)
10-16-9: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the Airport Manager to administer and enforce the
regulations prescribed herein. Applications for a variance shall be made to the
Airport Manager upon a form published and furnished for that purpose.
Applications required by this chapter to be submitted to the Airport Manager
shall be promptly considered and granted or denied. (Ord. 1263, 2-5-2024)
10-16-10: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Each violation of this chapter or of any regulation, order or ruling
promulgated under this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and be punishable
under Title 10, Chapter 1, Section 10-1-6, Enforcement and Penalties of the
Scott City Code of Ordinances. (Ord. 1263, 2-5-2024)
10-16-11: CONFLICTING REGULATIONS:
Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict is with respect to the height of structures or
trees, the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or
requirement shall govern and prevail. (Ord. 1263, 2-5-2024)
10-16-12: BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS:
   A.   There is hereby created a Board of Zoning Appeals to have and exercise
the following powers:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Airport Manager in the enforcement of this chapter.
      2.   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter
upon which such Board of Zoning Appeals under such regulations may be required
to pass.
      3.   To hear and decide specific variances.
   B.   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall adopt rules for its governance and in
harmony with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings of the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as
the Board of Zoning Appeals may determine. The Chairperson or, in the absence
of the Chairperson, the Acting Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be
public. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question; or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office
of the City Clerk and on due cause shown.
   C.   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall make written findings of facts and
conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming, or modifying any order,
requirement, decision, or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this chapter.
   D.   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the Airport Manager or decide in favor of the applicant on any
matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter, or to effect
variation to this chapter. (Ord. 1263, 2-5-2024)
10-16-13: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the
Airport Manager, made in the administration of the Ordinance, may appeal to the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
   B.   All appeals hereunder must be taken within a reasonable time as
provided by the rules of the Board of Zoning Appeals, by filing with the
Airport Manager a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Airport
Manager shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Zoning Appeals all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   C.   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the Airport Manager certifies to the Board of Zoning
Appeals, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason of
the facts stated in the certificate a stay would in the opinion of the Airport
Manager cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings
shall not be stayed except by order of the Board of Zoning Appeals or notice to
the Airport Manager and on due cause shown.
   D.   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   E.   The Board of Zoning Appeals may, in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision, or determination as may be appropriate under the
circumstances. (Ord. 1263, 2-5-2024)
10-16-14: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the Board of
Zoning Appeals, may appeal to the District Court of Scott County, Kansas as
provided by law. (Ord. 1263, 2-5-2024)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
General Provisions   1
Subdivision Classifications   2
Plat Procedures   3
Design Standards   4
Lot Splits   5
Definitions   6
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title And Authority
11-1-2: Purpose And Goals
11-1-3: Relationship To Comprehensive Plan
11-1-4: Jurisdiction
11-1-5: Applicability
11-1-6: Exemptions
11-1-7: Building Permits
11-1-8: Acceptance Of Plats; Approval Required
11-1-9: Enforcement, Violations, And Penalties
11-1-10: Vested Rights
11-1-11: Vacation Or Replat Of Plats
11-1-12: Variances
11-1-13: Repeal Of Previous Regulations
11-1-14: Severability
11-1-15: Effective Date
11-1-1: TITLE AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Title: This title shall be known and cited as the SCOTT CITY
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   B.   Authority: This title is adopted under authority of Kansas Statutes
Annotated 12-749 et seq., as amended. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-1-2: PURPOSE AND GOALS:
This title is adopted to serve the following purposes:
   A.   To provide for the harmonious development of the city of Scott City and
for a portion of the surrounding unincorporated area of Scott County;
   B.   To provide for: 1) desirable lot layouts, 2) efficient and orderly
location of streets and roadways and the extent and manner in which they shall
be improved, and 3) storm water drainage;
   C.   To provide for adequate water supply, sewage disposal, various utility
services and other improvements to protect public health, safety and general
welfare;
   D.   To provide for and secure to the proper governmental agencies the
actual construction of all such necessary on site and off site public
improvements including the reservation or dedication of land for park and
recreational purposes;
   E.   To reserve or dedicate land for open space to preserve natural areas
for watercourses, drainageways, wildlife habitat, and for water quality and
quantity, and to protect land from soil erosion;
   F.   To avoid water and air pollution and the congestion of population and
traffic;
   G.   To facilitate safety by adequate access for firefighting equipment and
police protection;
   H.   To coordinate the subdividing of land with applicable zoning
regulations, various construction codes and other city regulations which also
affect the development of the land;
   I.   To establish administrative procedures necessary to assure a fair and
uniform basis for a working relationship with subdividers, utility providers
and various governmental agencies, all of whom are contributing to the
development of the community; and
   J.   To realize the goals, policies and planning proposals as contained in
the adopted comprehensive plan. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-1-3: RELATIONSHIP TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
   A.   The Scott City subdivision regulations are intended to implement the
planning goals and policies contained in the Scott City comprehensive plan and
other planning documents and policies of the planning commission.
   B.   It is hereby acknowledged that the Scott City comprehensive plan and
amendments thereto, are the controlling instruments for changes, amendments,
and revisions of these subdivision regulations. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-1-4: JURISDICTION:
   A.   These subdivision regulations shall apply to all structures, land and
use of the land within the city limits of Scott City, Kansas and the
unincorporated area within three (3) miles, known as the extraterritorial area
as defined by ordinance as adopted or amended by the city council. (Ord. 1067,
6-19-2006)
11-1-5: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The owner(s) of any land within the jurisdiction of these regulations
desiring to vacate rights of way, easements, other public reservations or
recorded plats or to:
      1.   Divide or further divide land into two (2) or more lots or parcels;
or
      2.   Otherwise alter the boundaries of lots or parcels of land; or
      3.   Establish land for use as streets, alleys or other property intended
for public use or for the use of a purchaser or owner(s) of lots or parcels;
shall cause a plat to be made in accordance with the provisions of these
regulations, unless exempted under section
11-1-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-1-6: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Division of land for agricultural purposes in parcels or tracts of land
of five (5) acres or more, and not involving any new streets or easements of
access.
   B.   Whenever any lot, parcel or tract of land located within the area
governed by these regulations has been legally subdivided, resubdivided or
replatted and recorded prior to the effective date hereof.
   C.   A transaction between owners of adjoining land which involves only a
change in the boundary between the land owned by such persons and which does
not create an additional lot or which does not result in the creation of a
substandard lot by either owner according to any applicable zoning regulations
or sanitary code.
   D.   A conveyance or dedication of land or interest for use as a street,
highway, road or railroad right of way, a drainage easement or public utilities
subject to local, state or federal regulation, where no new street or easement
of access is created.
   E.   The land is owned or held in trust for the United States government,
state of Kansas, Scott County or its political subdivisions, and city of Scott
City.
   F.   The subdivision of any land used exclusively for cemetery purposes and
associated accessory uses. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-1-7: BUILDING PERMITS:
After the date of the adoption of these rules and regulations by the planning
commission and city council, no building permit or zoning permit shall be
issued for any structure that is located upon a lot in a subdivision that has
not been subdivided, unless approved in the manner as provided for in these
subdivision regulations. This shall not apply to subdivisions or lots of record
which were platted prior to the adoption of these subdivision regulations. No
such plat or replat or dedication or deed of a street or public way shall be
filed with the register of deeds, as provided by law, until such plat or replat
or dedication or deed shall have endorsed upon it the fact that it has been
submitted and approved by the planning commission and by the city council as
required by law. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-1-8: ACCEPTANCE OF PLATS; APPROVAL REQUIRED:
All plans, plats or replats of land laid out in building lots, and the streets,
alleys or other portions of the same intended to be dedicated for public use,
or for the use of purchasers or owners of the lots fronting thereon or adjacent
thereto, shall be submitted to the planning commission for its consideration,
and its recommendation shall be submitted to the city council for their
official consideration and action. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-1-9: ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS, AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to
enforce these subdivision regulations and to bring to the attention of the
municipal prosecuting attorney or the designated agent any violation of these
regulations.
      1.   No owner or agent for the owner, of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any part of the parcel before a
final plat of the subdivision has been approved by the planning commission and
city council, and recorded with the Scott County register of deeds.
      2.   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any
building or structure located on a lot or parcel subdivided or sold in
violation of the provisions of these regulations, nor shall the municipality
have any obligation to extend utility services to any parcel created in
violation of these regulations.
   B.   Violation And Penalties: A violation of any regulation adopted in these
subdivision regulations shall be a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a
fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for not
more than six (6) months for each offense, or by fine and imprisonment. Each
day's violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      1.   In addition, the city may institute appropriate action, including
injunction and mandamus, to prevent unlawful erection, construction or
alteration of structures, use of the land, occupation of buildings, abatement
of nuisances, failure to obtain permits, sale of land for development purposes
without reference to a valid plat or refusal to obey and adhere to a lawful
order of the zoning administrator.
      2.   Any person, the value or use of whose land is or may be affected by
such violation, shall have the authority to maintain suits or actions in a
court of competent jurisdiction to enforce these adopted regulations and to
abate nuisances maintained in violation thereof. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-1-10: VESTED RIGHTS:
   A.   Single-Family Residential Development: Development rights in single-
family residential development shall vest upon recording of a final plat of
such land. If construction is not commenced on such land within five (5) years
of recording a plat, the development rights in such shall expire.
      1.   Except for lots in a recorded plat, any remaining contiguous lots or
tracts of land within the area divided under this rule held in common ownership
at the conclusion of said five (5) year period shall be considered a single,
unplatted lot and subsequent divisions of said lot shall be platted in
conformance with the subdivision regulations then in effect.
   B.   Nonsingle-Family Residential Development: For all purposes other than
single-family developments, the right to use land for a particular purpose
shall vest upon the issuance of all permits required for such use by the city,
and construction has begun, and substantial amounts of work have been completed
under a validly issued permit. Persons who obtain a validly issued permit on a
lot or tract of land created under the provisions of the previous subdivision
regulations shall be permitted to develop said property so long as the permit
issued does not expire. Failure to start construction under said permit before
the expiration of the permit shall not protect the owner from the provisions of
these regulations or the Scott City zoning regulations.
   C.   Applicable Laws: To obtain final plat approval, the applicant shall be
in compliance with all local laws and regulations applicable at the time that
the preliminary plat was submitted to the planning commission, except that the
applicant shall comply with those local laws and regulations in effect at the
time that the final plat is considered for approval by the commission, provided
that the planning commission makes a determination on the record that
compliance with any of those local laws and regulations is reasonably necessary
to protect public health and safety. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-1-11: VACATION OR REPLAT OF PLATS:
The vacation or replat of any plat shall be accomplished in accordance with
Kansas Statutes Annotated 12-512(b). (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-1-12: VARIANCES:
   A.   The planning commission may grant variances from the provisions of
these subdivision regulations where there exists an extraordinary hardship or
practical difficulty that would prevent strict compliance with these rules or
regulations and/or the purposes of these regulations may be served to a greater
extent by an alternative proposal. The planning commission shall consider
variances as a separate agenda item prior to action on a preliminary or final
plat. The applicant and any other interested person shall be given an
opportunity to be heard with respect to the proposed variance request. The
planning commission shall not approve a variance unless it shall make findings
that all of the following apply:
      1.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other nearby property.
      2.   The conditions upon which the request is based are unique to the
property in question.
      3.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape, or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience.
      4.   The proposed variance request is in harmony with the intended
purposes of these regulations. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-1-13: REPEAL OF PREVIOUS REGULATIONS:
The 1983 city of Scott City subdivision regulations and all amendments are
hereby repealed effective from and after the date of the approval and adoption
by the city council and publication of the adopting ordinance for these
subdivision regulations. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-1-14: SEVERABILITY:
Should any section, provision, or particular application of this title be
adjudged invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, it is the intent of this
title that such judgment shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this
title, and such shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-1-15: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The provisions of this title shall become effective from and after the date of
their approval and adoption by the city council and publication of the adopting
ordinance. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION CLASSIFICATIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Class A
11-2-2: Class B
11-2-3: Class C
11-2-4: Requirements For Each Class
11-2-1: CLASS A:
   A.   All subdivisions located within the corporate limits of the city. (Ord.
1067, 6-19-2006)
11-2-2: CLASS B:
   A.   All subdivisions adjoining or touching the corporate limits of the
city.
   B.   Any subdivision adjoining or touching the boundaries of a tract or area
for which annexation proceedings have been commenced by the city.
   C.   Any subdivision touching or adjoining an approved subdivision which
touches or adjoins the corporate boundaries of the city. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-2-3: CLASS C:
A subdivision lying within the extraterritorial area that does not adjoin the
city limits, that does not adjoin another subdivision that adjoins or touches
the city limits. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-2-4: REQUIREMENTS FOR EACH CLASS:
   A.   Utilities: In all classes of subdivision, the area of the lots will be
determined by the availability of public sewer and public water supply. The
determination of whether or not public water is available in sufficient
quantities to serve the subdivision shall be made in the following manner:
      1.   Water Department: A copy of the preliminary plat shall be sent to
the water department for preliminary recommendation.
      2.   Engineer: A copy of the preliminary plat shall be sent to the
engineer for the city for a report on the availability of sewers.
      3.   Secretary; Planning Commission: A copy shall be sent to the
secretary of the planning commission for a report on compliance with the
subdivision regulations and zoning regulations. The recommendation of the water
department and report from the engineer for the city and the secretary shall be
sent to the planning commission for review and action.
   B.   Additional Particular Requirements: The following requirements are
hereby made of each of the classes of subdivisions:
      1.   Class A And B Subdivisions:
         a.   If the proposed subdivision is serviced with a public water
supply and city sewer or a community type sewage treatment plant, approval of
the plat shall be subject to the minimum requirements set forth herein and the
zoning regulations of the city and county.
         b.   If the proposed subdivision is serviced with a public water
supply, but not with a public sewer system, the preliminary plat will be
submitted on the basis of a minimum of three (3) acre lots and subject to the
approval of the Scott County environmental sanitarian, who shall make or cause
to be made percolation tests for each lot and make recommendations to the
planning commission. The plat will be so proportioned as to permit future
replatting consistent with good subdivision design.
         c.   If the proposed subdivision is served with a public sewer system
and not with a public water supply, and the developer will use a private water
supply, the preliminary plat will be submitted on the basis of a minimum of
three (3) acre lots, subject to the approval of the Kansas department of health
and environment, and be so proportioned that future platting will be consistent
with good subdivision design.
         d.   If the proposed subdivision is not served with either a public
water supply or a public sewer system, and the developer will be using a
private water supply with a septic tank sewage disposal system, the subdivider
shall submit the preliminary plat on the basis of five (5) acre lots, subject
to the approval of the Scott County environmental sanitarian who shall secure
percolation tests and submit a recommendation to the planning commission. The
plat will be so proportioned as to permit future replatting consistent with
good subdivision design.
         e.   The subdivider, landowner or developer shall submit a petition
for consideration for annexation of the subdivision to the city with the
preliminary plat, except for class C subdivision.
      2.   Class C Subdivisions: In all class C subdivisions, the same
requirements shall apply as applied to class A and B subdivisions, with the
exception that in class C subdivisions, the subdivider shall not be required to
submit a petition for annexation of the proposed subdivision. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-
2006)
CHAPTER 3
PLAT PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-3-1: Preapplication
11-3-2: Preliminary Plats
11-3-3: Final Plats
11-3-4: Required Improvements
11-3-5: Required Certifications
11-3-1: PREAPPLICATION:
Prior to the filing of the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall contact the
engineer for the city and/or county engineer (for the extraterritorial area),
the building official and other administrative personnel to determine:
   A.   Procedure for filing plats.
   B.   Availability of public sewers and water.
   C.   Comprehensive plan requirements for major streets, land use, parks,
schools and public open spaces.
   D.   Zoning requirements for the property in question and adjacent
properties. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-3-2: PRELIMINARY PLATS:
   A.   Generally Described: After reaching the preliminary conclusions
regarding the requirements for the proposed subdivision, the subdivider shall
submit a preliminary plat, together with any supplementary information
necessary, to the secretary of the planning commission.
   B.   Submission:
      1.   Filing Fee: A filing fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall
accompany the filing of each preliminary plat.
      2.   Number Of Copies: The subdivider shall submit ten (10) copies of the
preliminary plat and ten (10) copies of a vicinity map (if not on the
preliminary plat) showing the location of the proposed subdivision. These plans
shall be filed with the secretary at least fifteen (15) days prior to a regular
planning commission meeting at which the preliminary plat is to be considered.
   C.   Contents Required: Required contents for preliminary plats shall be as
follows:
      1.   The proposed name of the subdivision. (The name shall not duplicate
or too closely resemble the name or names of any existing subdivision.)
      2.   The location of the boundary lines of the subdivision and reference
to the section or quarter section lines.
      3.   The names and addresses of the developer, surveyor, landscape
architect or architect who prepared the plat.
      4.   Scale of the plat, one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') or
larger.
      5.   Date of preparation and north point.
      6.   Existing conditions:
         a.   Location, width and name of platted streets or other public ways,
railroads and utility rights of way, parks and other public open spaces and
permanent buildings within or adjacent to the proposed subdivision shall be
shown on the preliminary plat.
         b.   All existing sewers, water mains, gas mains, culverts or other
underground installations, within the proposed subdivision or adjacent thereto,
with pipe size and manholes, grades and location shall be shown.
         c.   Names of adjacent subdivisions, together with arrangement of
streets and lots, and owners of adjacent parcels of unsubdivided land shall be
shown.
         d.   Topography (unless specifically waived) with contour intervals of
not more than one foot (1') referred to city or USGS datum shall be shown; also
location of watercourses, bridges, wooded areas, lakes, ravines and such other
features as may be pertinent to the subdivision shall be shown.
      7.   The general arrangement of lots and their approximate size.
      8.   Location and width of proposed streets, alleys, pedestrianways and
easements.
      9.   The general plan of sewage disposal, water supply and utilities, in
areas where public sewers and/or water are proposed to serve the subdivision.
In other cases, a notation shall be made on the plat indicating type of sewage
disposal and water system proposed.
      10.   Location and size of proposed parks, playgrounds, churches, school
sites or other special uses of land to be considered for reservation for public
use.
      11.   General layout of adjacent unsubdivided property to show how
streets and other public facilities, in the proposed subdivision, relate to the
unsubdivided property.
   D.   Approval; Disapproval:
      1.   Time Limit For Action: Action by the planning commission shall be
conveyed to the subdivider in writing within ten (10) days after the official
planning commission meeting at which time the plat was considered. The planning
commission shall approve or conditionally approve the plat within sixty (60)
days from the date of the first hearing, unless such time is extended by mutual
consent.
      2.   Disapproval; Reason Specified: In case the plat is disapproved, the
subdivider shall be notified of the reason for such action and what
requirements shall be necessary to meet the approval of the planning
commission.
      3.   Preparation Of Final Plat Authorized; Approval Period: The approval
of the preliminary plat does not constitute an acceptance of the subdivision,
but is deemed to be an authorization to proceed with the preparation of the
final plat. The approval of the preliminary plat shall only be effective for a
period of one year, unless an extension is granted by the planning commission.
If the final plat has not been submitted for approval within this specific
period, a preliminary plat must be submitted again to the planning commission
for approval. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-3-3: FINAL PLATS:
   A.   Submission:
      1.   Required: After approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider
shall submit a final plat, for recording purposes, to the secretary of the
planning commission.
      2.   Filing Fee: A filing fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall accompany
the final plat, plus a fee of one dollar ($1.00) per lot. The maximum fee shall
not exceed one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
      3.   Number; Time Limit: The original (on Mylar or similar material) and
ten (10) prints thereof shall be submitted to the secretary of the planning
commission at least fifteen (15) days prior to the planning commission regular
meeting.
      4.   Owner Acknowledgement: The names and signatures of the owner or
owners of the property, duly acknowledged and notarized, shall appear on the
original copies submitted.
      5.   Scale: The final plat, prepared for recording purposes, shall be
drawn at a scale of at least one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') or
larger. The size of the sheet on which such final plat is prepared shall be
twenty two inches by thirty six inches (22" x 36").
   B.   Information Required: The final plat shall show and contain the
following information:
      1.   Name of subdivision (not to duplicate or too closely approximate the
name of any existing subdivision). The words "FINAL PLAT" shall be shown on the
plat.
      2.   A legal description of the subdivision boundaries.
      3.   The instrument of survey, which shows the point of beginning,
corners, bearings, courses, distances, exterior boundaries, interior lot
boundaries, pins, monuments found or set. All points of intersection (PIs),
including the boundary corners shall be monumented with a one-half inch by
twenty four inch (1/2" x 24") iron bar set in concrete. Additional data shall
be included in accordance with KAR 66-12-1, "Minimum Standards For The Practice
Of Land Surveying", (current or as amended).
      4.   The location of lots, streets, public highways, alleys, parks and
other features, with accurate dimension in feet and decimals of feet with the
length or radii on all curves, and other information necessary to reproduce the
plat on the ground. Dimensions shall be shown from all curves to lot lines.
      5.   Lots shall be numbered clearly. Blocks shall be numbered or lettered
clearly in the center of the block.
      6.   The exact locations, widths and names of all streets to be
dedicated.
      7.   Boundary lines and description of the boundary lines of any area
other than streets and alleys, which are to be dedicated or reserved for public
use.
      8.   Building setback lines on the front and side streets with
dimensions.
      9.   Name and address of the developer, county surveyor or the licensed
engineer making the plat.
      10.   Scale of plat (scale to be shown graphically and in feet per inch),
date of preparation and north point.
      11.   Statement dedicating all easements.
      12.   Statement dedicating all streets, alleys and all other public areas
not previously dedicated.
   C.   Supplementary Documents:
      1.   Two (2) 3-line profile prints of streets to be dedicated, indicating
the grades thereon, may be required by the planning commission for plats
submitted.
      2.   Certificate stating that all taxes and encumbrances have been
satisfied on record on the land to be dedicated as streets, alleys or other
public purposes.
      3.   If private restrictions are to be filed affecting the subdivision or
any part thereof, two (2) copies shall be submitted to the planning commission
with the final plat. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-3-4: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   As a condition to the approval of a final plat, the subdivider shall
agree to install the following public improvements:
      1.   Streets: Streets shall be surfaced with concrete, asphalt, or
materials approved by the engineer for the city and shall include curb. County
streets and roadways shall be improved in accordance with the requirements and
specifications of the county engineer and shall include drainageways.
      2.   Water: Where a public water supply is proposed to serve the
subdivision, said water lines shall be installed in proper easements or within
the limits of the street and alley right of way and shall be of a size as
approved by the engineer for the city.
      3.   Sewers: If the subdivision is of the type included under subsection
11-2-4B1a of this title, the sewer system shall be constructed which will
provide service to each lot within the subdivision. The system of lateral
sewers shall collect the sewage within the subdivision and discharge it into a
main sewer or a community disposal system approved by the engineer for the city
or county engineer and an approval, in writing, of the plans and specifications
for the sewer system shall be made by the engineer for the city or county
engineer.
      4.   Street Signs: Street signs will be supplied and erected by the city
and/or county.
      5.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be a minimum of four feet (4') in width
where required by the planning commission.
      6.   Other Improvements: If other improvements are required, such as tree
plantings, retaining walls, drainage structures, etc., such improvements shall
be made in accordance with the recommendations of the planning commission and
specifications of the engineer for the city and/or county engineer.
      7.   Lot, Block Corners: All lot corners shall be set with one-half inch
(1/2") iron bars two feet (2') long, and all block corners shall be set with
three-fourths inch (3/4") iron bars three feet (3') long.
      8.   Block Markers: All block markers must be permanently set and all
points of intersection (PI) in street alignments set prior to acceptance of
plat by city, and prior to any lot being sold, the total block must be staked
and corners set for all lots. Block corners shall be set one foot (1') below
grade.
      9.   Bench Marks: A minimum of two (2) bench marks (monuments) shall be
placed in each subdivision, located and installed as required by the engineer
for the city. In subdivisions larger than forty (40) acres, one bench mark
shall be installed for each additional twenty (20) acre area. The monument
shall be a three inch (3") brass cap set permanently in concrete, ten inches
(10") in diameter by twenty four inches (24") deep, approved by the engineer
for the city. The elevation of the monuments shall be identified on each.
      10.   Bond For Construction: In lieu of the actual construction of the
physical improvements required, the planning commission and city council may
accept one of the following:
         a.   A bond guaranteeing construction of the required improvements
within a period of time to be specified by the city council. Such bond shall be
in a form approved by the city council.
         b.   A petition, presented and approved by the city council properly
executed by the property owners, as provided by law, for the construction by
the city council of the improvements, to be assessed against the subdivided
property. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-3-5: REQUIRED CERTIFICATIONS:
   A.   Owners: Certifications shall be shown on the final plat, signed and
acknowledged by all parties holding title or having any title interest in the
land subdivided and consenting to the preparation and recording of the plat as
submitted. The original and ten (10) copies of the plat submitted shall carry
the signatures of the owner or owners or corporation and shall be duly
notarized by a notary public.
   B.   Licensed Engineer: A certification by a licensed engineer shall be
shown on the final plat stating that the physical and mathematical details of
the plat are correct.
   C.   Officials: Space shall be reserved on the plat to certify approval and
for the date and signature of the following:
      1.   Chairman and secretary of the planning commission.
      2.   City council, to be signed by the mayor and attested by the city
clerk.
      3.   Board of county commissioners (when required by state law), to be
signed by two (2) members and the chairman.
      4.   Entry for the date and transfer of record with space for the
signature of the county clerk.
      5.   Space for the recording of the instrument and the name of register
of deeds.
      6.   Certificate of review by the county surveyor or designee indicating
that the plat and survey description have been reviewed and approved.
   D.   Review By City Officials; Recommendations: After the review of the
final plat by the planning commission, such final plat, together with the
recommendations of the planning commission, shall be transmitted to the city
council as required by law for their review and action.
   E.   Recorded Plats; Distribution: Eight (8) copies of the recorded plat
shall be provided by the subdivider and shall be submitted to the secretary of
the planning commission for distribution as follows:
      Building official
      County engineer
      Engineer for the city
      Planning commission file
      Utility companies (electrical, telephone, cable)
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Purpose
11-4-2: General Development
11-4-3: Lot Design And Layout
11-4-4: Blocks
11-4-5: Streets, Alleys And Public Ways
11-4-6: Easements
11-4-7: Public Sites And Open Space; Dedication, Reservation
11-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide reasonable standards of design for
the subdivision and resubdivision of land. The planning commission shall study
and review all subdivision plats in relation to the general character of the
area, the general requirements of the community, and the particular
requirements of the neighborhood. These design standards shall guide private
and public policy regarding the efficient layout and design of public
improvements. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-4-2: GENERAL DEVELOPMENT:
Subdivisions, resubdivisions and all related improvements shall be planned,
designed, and constructed in accordance with the standards and specifications
set forth in this chapter.
   A.   A subdivision shall be designed to comply with the Scott City
comprehensive plan.
   B.   The planning commission shall approve all subdivision names.
   C.   The name of any new subdivision road shall not duplicate or closely
approximate that of any existing road within the postal delivery area of Scott
City. The planning commission shall approve all street names.
   D.   The purchase and installation of all facilities and utilities shall be
the responsibility of the developer. No building permit may be issued unless
the city certifies that all public improvements have been properly installed.
   E.   The planning commission may require the dedication easements for the
construction of public streets and sidewalks, and such other lands that are
necessary to further the goals of the comprehensive plan. All such dedications
shall be generally proportional to the impact of development.
   F.   All subdivisions shall be designed according to "best practices" that
emphasize good landform and drainage, the preservation of natural features,
safe transportation facilities, and promote the goals of pedestrian and traffic
connectivity.
   G.   The planning commission shall have the power to impose reasonable
conditions on the subdivision of land as a valid exercise of the police power
granted to Kansas municipalities to protect the health, safety, and welfare of
current and future residents. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-4-3: LOT DESIGN AND LAYOUT:
   A.   Width: Minimum width shall be seventy feet (70'). (Said width shall be
measured at the building setback line.)
   B.   Depth: Minimum depth shall be one hundred feet (100'). (Said
measurement shall be measured through the center of the lot and shall be
perpendicular to the property line on curved streets.)
   C.   Area: Minimum area shall be subject to the zoning regulations of the
district in which the subdivision is located.
   D.   Individual Sewage Disposal System: In subdivisions where septic tanks
or other individual sewage disposal devices are to be installed, the size of
all lots included in the subdivision shall be subject to regulations in section
11-2-4 of this title.
   E.   Private Water Supply: In subdivisions where private water supply is by
well or other means, the size of all lots included in the subdivision shall be
subject to regulations in section
 11-2-4 of this title.
   F.   Side Lot Lines: All side lot lines shall bear sixty degrees (60°) to
ninety degrees (90°) from the street right of way line on a straight street or
from the tangent of a curved street.
   G.   Corner Lots: Corner lots, in residential subdivisions, shall observe
the same setback on both streets.
   H.   Double Frontage Lots: Double frontage lots shall be avoided unless, in
the opinion of the planning commission, a variation to this rule will give
better street alignment and lot arrangement.
   I.   Abut On Street: Every lot shall abut on a street other than an alley.
   J.   Building, Setback Lines: Building or setback lines shall be shown on
the final plat for all lots in the subdivision and shall not be less than the
setback required by the zoning regulations.
   K.   Existing Permanent Structure Placed In Violation: The subdivision or
resubdivision of a tract or lot shall not be permitted where said subdivision
or resubdivision places an existing permanent structure in violation of the
requirements of the zoning regulations. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-4-4: BLOCKS:
   A.   Length: Intersecting streets (which determine block length) shall be
provided at such intervals as to serve cross traffic adequately and to meet
existing streets in the neighborhood. In residential districts, where no
existing plats are recorded, the blocks shall not exceed one thousand two
hundred feet (1,200') in length, except that in outlying subdivisions, a
greater length may be permitted where topography or other conditions justify a
departure from this maximum. In blocks longer than eight hundred feet (800'),
pedestrianways and/or easements through the block may be required near the
center of the block. Such pedestrianways or easements shall have a minimum
width of ten feet (10'). Blocks for business use should normally not exceed six
hundred feet (600') in length.
   B.   Width: In residential development, the block width shall normally be
sufficient to allow two (2) tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended
for business or industrial use shall be of such width and depth as may be
considered most suitable for the prospective use, with adequate space set aside
for off street parking and loading. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-4-5: STREETS, ALLEYS AND PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Relation To Adjoining Street System: The arrangement of streets in new
subdivisions shall make provisions for the continuation of the principal
existing streets in adjoining additions (or their proper projection where
adjoining property is not subdivided) insofar as they may be necessary for
public requirements. The width of such streets in new subdivisions shall not be
less than the minimum street widths established herein. Alleys, when required
and street arrangement must also be such as to cause no hardship to owners of
adjoining property when they plat their land and seek to provide for convenient
access to it. Whenever there exists a dedicated or platted half street or alley
adjacent to the tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street or alley
shall be platted and dedicated as a public way.
   B.   Street Names: Streets that are obviously in alignment with others
already existing and named shall bear the names of the existing streets.
   C.   Major Streets: Major streets through subdivisions shall conform to the
major street plan as adopted by the planning commission and the city council.
   D.   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall be so designed to discourage through
or nonlocal traffic.
   E.   Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sacs shall be permitted only when topography or
ownership prevents normal subdivision of a tract or plot of ground. Said cul-
de-sacs shall normally be no longer than five hundred feet (500'), including a
turnaround not less than sixty feet (60') in radius shall be provided at each
terminus to provide adequate provision for turnaround for emergency or
commercial vehicles.
   F.   Right Angle Intersections: Under normal conditions, streets shall be
laid out to intersect, as nearly as possible, at right angles. Where topography
or other conditions justify a variation from the right angle intersection, the
minimum angle shall be sixty degrees (60°).
   G.   Adjacent To Railroad And Other Rights Of Way: Where lots front or side
on, but do not back on, railroad rights of way, limited access freeways or
principal highways, a marginal access street or frontage road shall be provided
parallel and adjacent to the boundary of such rights of way. The distance from
said rights of way shall be determined, with due consideration, to minimum
distance required for approach connections to future grade separation.
   H.   Half Streets: Dedication of half streets will not be approved, except
where it is essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision and in
conformity with the major street plan and other requirements of these
regulations.
   I.   Alleys: Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial
districts, except that the requirements may be waived where other definite and
assured provisions are made for service access to off street loading and
unloading areas and to off street parking areas, consistent with and adequate
for the uses proposed. Dead end alleys shall be avoided, wherever possible.
Alleys may be required in certain residential areas.
   J.   Minimum Street Dimensions: All streets, alleys and public ways included
in any subdivision, hereafter dedicated and accepted, shall not be less than
the minimum dimensions for each classification as follows:
MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS FOR ARTERIAL, COLLECTOR, AND LOCAL STREETS
Street Class ROW Number Of Lanes Pavement Width
Street Class              ROW          Number Of Lanes Pavement Width
Arterial1:
   Lane configuration                
Moving lanes              100–120 fee4                        12 feet
Turning lanes                          1–2                    10 feet
Parking lanes                          None
Collector1:
   Lane configuration                               
Moving lanes              80–90 feet 2                        11 feet
Turning lanes                          0–1                    10 feet
Parking lanes                          0–2                    9 feet
Local:
   Lane configuration                               
Moving lanes              60–70 feet 2                        10 feet
Turning lanes                          0–1                    9 feet
Parking lanes                          1–2                    7 feet
Marginal Access Streets Or Frontage Roads:
   Lane configuration:  
Two-way                   50 feet
One-way                   50 feet                      
Alleys                    50 feet
Pedestrianways            10 feet
 
   Note:
      1.   When existing or anticipated traffic on arterial and collector
thoroughfares warrants greater widths of rights of way, the additional width
shall be provided.
   K.   Drainage Easements: Drainage easements may be required, in addition to
street rights of way, where the street or streets adjoin or are parallel with
streams or drainage areas or where lots back on where said drainage areas
exist. The width of such drainage easement shall be determined by the engineer
for the city and/or county engineer, who shall notify the planning commission
of their recommendation in writing.
   L.   Street Grades: The grades of streets, alleys and other public ways
included in any subdivision shall not be greater than is necessary for the
topographical conditions.
   M.   Street Alignment: Minimum, horizontal and vertical alignment on all
streets, except in unusual cases, shall be as follows:
      1.   Horizontal: Radii at the centerline:
 
Major streets 300 feet
Local streets 100 feet
 
A tangent shall be provided between all reversed curves as recommended by the
engineer for the city and/or county engineer, to provide for a smooth flow of
traffic.
      2.   Vertical: All changes in street grade shall be connected by vertical
curves of such length as to provide for desired sight distance and shall be
subject to the approval of the engineer for the city and/or county engineer.
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-4-6: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Required; Size: Where alleys are not provided, permanent easements of
not less than seven and one-half feet (71/2') in width shall be provided on
each side of all rear lot lines, and on side lot lines, where necessary, for
utility poles, wires, conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, gas, water and heat
mains and other public utilities. These easements shall provide for a
continuous right of way at least fifteen feet (15') in width.
   B.   Temporary Construction Easement: A twelve foot (12') temporary
construction easement shall be provided for initial construction of water,
sewer and other utility lines. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-4-7: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACE; DEDICATION, RESERVATION:
In subdividing land or resubdividing an existing plat, due consideration should
be given by the subdivider to the dedication or reservation of suitable sites
for schools, parks, playgrounds or other public recreational areas or open
spaces. Any areas so dedicated or reserved shall conform as nearly as possible
to the recommendations of the board of education. All areas to be reserved for
or dedicated to public use shall be indicated on the preliminary plat in order
that it may be determined when and in what manner such areas will be dedicated
to or acquired by the appropriate agency. A written statement from the board of
education shall be submitted by the subdivider indicating whether or not a
school site in the proposed subdivision is desired. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
CHAPTER 5
LOT SPLITS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Purpose
11-5-2: General Provisions
11-5-3: Contents Of Plot Plan
11-5-4: Approval Authority
11-5-5: Approval Guidelines
11-5-1: PURPOSE:
These regulations are designed to provide for the division of a lot into not
more than two (2) lots that meet the minimum size and area requirements of the
zoning district in which said lots are located. Any new lot created under the
provisions of this chapter shall not be further subdivided without replatting.
(Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-5-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The owner of the land shall submit a lot split application to the zoning
administrator or building official in accordance with the following standards:
   A.   The applicant shall submit a complete lot split application form
available from the zoning administrator and five (5) copies of a plot plan,
together with any supplementary data specified by these regulations.
   B.   The applicant shall pay all filing fees associated with a lot split as
adopted by the city council before the application is accepted for review.
   C.   The plot plan shall be submitted as a certificate of survey and sealed
by a licensed land surveyor or engineer in Kansas. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-5-3: CONTENTS OF PLOT PLAN:
   A.   Signature and date blocks for the zoning administrator and the register
of deeds.
   B.   The location and dimension of existing structures and/or curb cuts on
the lot with respect to the existing lot lines.
   C.   All platted building setbacks.
   D.   The dimensions of the proposed lots.
   E.   The legal description(s) for the proposed lots.
   F.   The current zoning of the subject parcel.
   G.   The total square footage contained in each of the two (2) lots.
   H.   All existing easements and utilities. If the easements were granted by
separate instrument the certificate of survey must contain a note indicating
that these instruments are on file with the register of deeds.
   I.   Location and width of accessways, existing and proposed.
   J.   The surveyor's signature, certificate and seal.
   K.   The owner's signature.
   L.   Certificate that all taxes and special assessments due and payable have
been paid. In the case of unpaid special assessments, a proposed redistribution
of such unpaid special assessments which meets the city's requirements and is
acceptable to the city clerk. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-5-4: APPROVAL AUTHORITY:
The zoning administrator or appointed agent is authorized to approve or
disapprove lot splits with these regulations.
   A.   The zoning administrator shall provide a written approval, with or
without conditions, or denial of the lot split within thirty (30) days after
receiving a complete application.
   B.   The zoning administrator may provide conditions as deemed necessary to
implement the intent and purpose of these regulations. Requirements may
include, but are not limited to, installation of public facilities, dedication
of right of way and easements.
   C.   If the application is approved, the applicant shall file the approved
lot split with the Scott County register of deeds. A copy of the filed request
must be returned to the zoning administrator. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
11-5-5: APPROVAL GUIDELINES:
No lot split shall be approved if one or more of the following applies:
   A.   A new street or alley is needed or proposed.
   B.   There is less street or road right of way than required by these
regulations.
   C.   A vacation of streets, alleys, setback lines, access control or
easements is required or proposed.
   D.   The lot split results in a lot or tract without direct access to a
street.
   E.   The lot split results in a lot that does not meet minimum lot size,
setbacks, or other requirements of the zoning regulations.
   F.   An easement requirement has not been satisfied. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006)
CHAPTER 6
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Definitions Of Words And Phrases
11-6-1: DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND PHRASES:
Definitions for the interpretation of these rules and regulations are as
follows:
ALLEY: A public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   BLOCK: A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highway,
streets, streams, railroad rights of way or parks, etc., or a combination
thereof.
   BUILDABLE AREA: The area of a lot remaining after the minimum yard and open
space requirements of the zoning ordinance has been met.
   BUILDING ENVELOPE: The three-dimensional space within which a structure is
permitted to be built on a lot and that is defined by maximum height
regulations and minimum yard setbacks.
   CITY COUNCIL: The mayor and council members of Scott City.
   COUNTY COMMISSION: The board of county commissioners of Scott County.
   CUL-DE-SAC: A street having one end open to traffic and being permanently
terminated by a vehicle turnaround.
   DEED RESTRICTION: A restriction upon the use of a property placed in a deed.
   DESIGN: The location of streets, alignment of streets, grades and widths of
streets, alignment of easements, grades and widths of easements, alignment and
rights of way for drainage and sanitary sewers, and the designation of minimum
lot area, width and length.
   EASEMENT: A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation or
persons of the use of a strip of land for specific purposes.
   FINAL PLAT: A plan or map prepared in accordance with the provisions of this
title and those of any other applicable local regulations, which plat is
prepared to be placed on record in the office of the register of deeds of the
county in which any part of the subdivision is located.
   FRONTAGE: That side of a lot abutting on a street or way and ordinarily
regarded as the front of the lot, but it shall not be considered as the
ordinary side of a corner lot.
   GRADE: The slope of a road, street, or other public way, specified in
percentage terms.
   GRADE, FINISHED: The elevation of the ground level after development.
   GRADING: Any stripping, cutting, filling, or stockpiling of earth or land,
including the land in its cut or filled condition, to create new grades.
   IMPROVEMENT: Street work and utilities that are to be installed or agreed to
be installed by the subdivider on the land to be used for public or private use
of the landowners in the subdivision and local neighborhood traffic and
drainage needs, as a condition precedent to the approval and acceptance of the
final map or filing of the record of the survey map thereof.
   LOT: A portion of land in a subdivision or other parcel of land, intended as
a unit for transfer of ownership or for development.
   LOT IMPROVEMENT: Any building, structure, place, work of art, or other
object, or improvement of the land on which they are situated constituting a
physical betterment of real property, or any part of such betterment.
   LOT OF RECORD: A lot that exists as shown or described on a plat or deed in
the records of the Scott County register of deeds.
   LOT SPLIT: The dividing of a lot in a recorded plat into not more than two
(2) lots, subject to the provisions of these regulations.
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE: A street, highway or roadway designated as such on the
official major street plan.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS OR FRONTAGE ROADS: A minor street which is generally
parallel to or adjacent to a major traffic thoroughfare, highway or railroad
right of way and provides access to abutting properties.
   NET AREA OF LOT/SITE: The land area of a lot or tract remaining after
subtraction of all public street and alley rights of way as are required by the
zoning or subdivision regulations.
   NONCONFORMING LOT: A lot existing on the effective date hereof that does not
meet the minimum area requirement of the zoning district in which the lot is
located.
   PEDESTRIANWAY: A right of way dedicated to public use, which cuts across a
block to facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE: Any security that may be accepted by the city of
Scott City to assure that improvements required as part of an application for
development will be satisfactorily completed.
   PLANNING AREA: That area on a map prepared and maintained for or by the
planning commission describing the planning area limits.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT: A map made for the purpose of showing the design of a
proposed subdivision and the existing conditions in and around it. This map
need not be based on accurate or detailed final survey of the property.
   SECRETARY: Secretary of the planning commission.
   SETBACK LINE OR BUILDING LINE: A line on a plat generally parallel to the
street right of way, indicating the limit beyond which buildings or structures
may not be erected or altered except as otherwise provided in the zoning
regulations of the city and county.
   STREET: A right of way dedicated to the public use, or a private right of
way serving more than one ownership, which provides principal vehicular and
pedestrian access to adjacent properties.
   SUBDIVIDER: A person, firm, corporation, partnership or association who
causes land to be divided into a subdivision for himself or for others.
   SUBDIVISION: The division of a tract of land into two (2) or more lots or
parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development, or,
if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land. The term
subdivision includes resubdivision, and the term "resubdivision", as used
herein, shall include any further subdivision of a lot or parcel of land
previously subdivided, for sale, use or other purposes, which varies from the
latest approved subdivision of the same. (Ord. 1067, 6-19-2006) 
ORDINANCE LIST
Prepared by Sterling Codifiers
Ord. No. Passage Date Subject
Ord. No. Passage Date Subject
1        3/11/1887    Officers' duties; clerk, treasurer.
2        3/11/1887    Council meetings.
3        3/11/1887    Marshal; duties, salary.
4        3/11/1887    Attorney; office created; duties, salary.
5        3/11/1887    Misdemea nors.
6        3/11/1887    License tax; businesses.
7        3/15/1887    Sidewalk construction, maintenan ce.
8        3/15/1887    Fire protection; water availability.
9        3/15/1887    Working of prisoners.
10       3/15/1887    Rubbish removal; dead animals, manure.
11       3/15/1887    Dogs running at large.
12       3/23/188 7   Swine running at large.
13       3/23/1887    Obstructing streets and alleys.
14       3/23/1887    Fire prevention; keeping of combustible materials.
15       3/23/1887    Carrying concealed weapons; penalty.
16       6/18/1887    Granting right of way across certain streets and alleys
                      to Denver Memphis and Atlantic Railroad Co.
17       7/8/1887     Businesses; license fees.
18       7/8/1887     Gambling, gambling devices; prostitution, houses of
                      prostitution.
19       7/18/1887    Vacancy in city offices.
20       7/29/1887    Appropriation.
21       8/12/1887    Obstructing streets; railroad trains.
22       8/20/1887    Waterworks franchise.
23       10/7/1887    Light and gas franchise.
24       10/7/1887    Construction of flues and chimneys.
25       12/2/1887    Horses, mules and other animals running at large.
26       1/20/1888    Vacating certain streets and alleys.
27       2/24/1888    Treasurer; duties.
28       4/6/1888     Granting right of way to C.K. & W. Railroad Co.
29       4/25/1888    Businesses; license fees.
30       8/17/1888    Tax levy.
31       2/2/1889     Quarantine regulations; contagious diseases.
32       8/9/1889     Tax levy.
33       6/6/1890     Salaries; clerk and treasurer.
34       8/1/1890     Tax levy.
35       8/4/1890     Misdemeanors.
36       12/9/1890    Sidewalk construction.
37       3/25/1891    Election; designating location.
38       8/7/1891     Tax levy.
39       12/16/1891   Curfew.
40       12/21/1891   Nuisances.
41       --           (Missing)
42       8/5/1892     Tax levy.
43       1/13/1893    Appropriation; sidewalk construction.
44       3/12/1893    Election; designating location.
45       4/7/1893     Council meetings.
46       7/20/1893    City pound.
47       8/14/1893    Tax levy.
48       3/12/1894    Vacating certain alleys.
49       3/12/1894    Election; designating location.
50       8/20/1894    Tax levy.
51       3/21/1895    Election; designating location.
52       8/9/1895     Tax levy.
53       3/1896       Election; designating location.
54       8/14/1896    Tax levy.
55       3/12/1897    Election; designating location.
56       4/1/1897     Election; designating location.
57       6/11/1897    Salaries; Clerk, Treasurer, Street Commissioner and
                      Marshall.
58       8/26/1897    Tax levy.
59       3/17/1898    Election; designating location.
60       8/18/1898    Tax levy.
61       3/11/1899    Election; designating location.
62       4/21/1899    Playing in streets prohibited.
63       8/11/1899    Tax levy.
64       3/15/1900    Election; designating location.
65       8/13/1900    Tax levy.
66       3/8/01       Election; designating location.
67       7/13/01      Business licenses; fees.
69       9/3/01       Special tax levy; City judgments.
70       10/9/01      Special tax levy; City judgments.
71       2/28/02      Election; designating location.
72       4/9/02       Billiard and pool halls prohibited.
73       5/10/02      Billiard and pool halls regulated.
74       5/19/02      Businesses; license fees.
75       7/19/02      Franchise; telephone and telegraph.
76       8/23/02      Tax levy.
77       12/12/02     Businesses; license fees.
78       3/19/03      Election; designating location.
79       5/13/03      Businesses; license fees.
80       8/14/03      Tax levy.
81       8/12/04      Tax levy.
82       No date      Election; designating location.
83       7/21/05      Fire limits; building regulations.
84       7/21/05      Steam traction engines.
85       7/21/05      Misdemeanors.
86       7/21/05      Dogs running at large.
87       10/16/05     Fire limits; building regulations .
88       10/16/05     Sidewalk construction; inspection.
89       12/18/05     Franchise; electric.
90       2/15/06      Sidewalk construction; inspection.
91-129               (Missing)
130      7/18/10      Businesses, license fees.
131      7/18/10      Barbed wire fences.
132      7/18/10      Sidewalk construction.
133      8/5/10       Tax levy.
134      11/7/10      Cigarette and tobacco sales to minors.
135      3/6/11       Election; designating location.
136      3/6/11       Poll tax.
137      5/1/11       Sidewalk construction.
138      6/8/11       Billiard and pool halls.
139      8/8/11       Tax levy.
140      11/8/11      Electric plant; special election for bond issue.
141      11/16/11     Liquor sales and use prohibited.
142      11/16/11     Corporate boundary limits.
143      11/16/11     Motor vehicles.
144      12/5/11      Misdemeanors.
145      2/5/12       Franchise, electric.
146      3/4/12       Vacating certain streets.
147      3/11/12      Dogs running at large.
148      4/1/12       Corporate limits.
149      6/3/12       Sidewalk construction.
150      8/5/12       Tax levy.
151      12/5/12      Electric plant and waterworks system; special election
                      for bond issue.
152      1/6/13       Electric light plant and waterworks system bond issue.
153      1/6/13       Gambling.
154      1/13/13      Appropriation; mayor and council traveling expenses.
155      2/3/13       Traffic; speed limits.
156      2/3/13       Skating on sidewalks.
157      3/3/13       Election; designating location.
158      5/5/13       Appropriation.
159      6/2/13       Appropriation.
160      6/2/13       Granting right of way across certain streets and alleys
                      to Scott City Northern Railroad Co.
161      7/7/13       Appropriation.
162      8/4/13       Appropriation.
163      8/5/13       Electric light and waterworks; election for bond issue.
164      8/11/13      Tax levy.
165      8/11/13      Election; billiard, pool halls and bowling alleys.
166      8/11/13      License tax exemption, auditorium.
167      8/18/13      Electric light and waterworks; bond issue.
168      9/1/13       Appropriation.
169      --           (Missing)
170      9/8/13       Appropriation.
171      9/15/13      Billiard and pool halls.
172      9/24/13      Appropriation.
173      10/6/13      Appropriation.
174      10/20/13     Appropriation.
175      11/3/13      Appropriation.
176      11/17/13     Appropriation.
177      12/1/13      Appropriation.
178      12/15/13     Appropriation.
179      12/29/13     Appropriation.
180      1/5/14       Appropriation.
181      1/12/14      Combined water and electric light system.
182      1/24/14      Appropriation.
183      2/2/14       Appropriation.
184      3/2/14       Appropriation.
185      4/6/14       Appropriation.
186      4/7/14       Appropriation.
187      6/1/14       Appropriation.
188      6/1/14       Appropriation.
189      7/6/14       Appropriation.
190      7/7/14       Water service contract; Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe
                      Railroad Co.
191      8/3/14       Tax levy.
192      8/3/14       Appropriation.
193      9/8/14       Appropriation.
194      10/5/14      Appropriation.
195      11/2/14      Appropriation.
196      12/7/14      Appropriation.
197      1/4/15       Appropriation.
198      2/1/15       Appropriation.
199      No date      Appropriation.
200      3/2/15       Election; City officers.
201      4/5/15       Appropriation.
202      No date      Appropriation.
203      --           (Missing)
204      6/7/15       Sidewalk construction.
205      8/9/15       Tax levy; 1915.
206      11/1/15      Contract; street lighting.
207      11/1/15      Businesses; license fees.
208      11/1/15      Pool halls and bowling alleys.
209      4/6/16       Excavations for cesspools.
210      7/3/16       Poll tax.
211      8/9/16       Tax levy; 1916.
212      10/10/16     Sidewalk construction.
213      3/5/17       Sidewalk construction.
214      3/5/17       Election; City officers.
214      1917         Tax levy.
215      10/2/17      Billiard and pool halls.
216      --           (Missing)
217      3/4/18       Billiard and pool halls.
218      3/4/18       Garbage, flies; nuisances.
219      4/1/18       Appropriation.
220      5/7/18       Appropriation.
221      6/3/18       Appropriation.
222      7/1/18       Appropriation.
223      8/7/18       Tax levy.
224      8/7/18       Appropriation.
225      9/2/18       Appropriation.
226      10/7/18      Appropriation.
227      11/4/18      Appropriation.
228      12/2/18      Appropriation.
229      1/6/19       Appropriation.
230      2/3/19       Appropriation.
231      3/3/19       Appropriation.
232      3/3/19       Election; City officers.
233      4/14/19      Appropriation.
234      5/5/19       Appropriation.
235      6/2/19       Appropriation.
236      7/7/19       Appropriation.
237      7/7/19       Sidewalk construction.
238      8/4/19       Appropriation.
239      8/4/19       Tax levy.
240      9/1/19       Sidewalk construction.
241      9/1/19       Appropriation.
242      10/6/19      Appropriation.
243      11/3/19      Appropriation.
244      12/1/19      Appropriation.
245      12/9/19      Water and electric rates.
246      1/5/20       Appropriation.
247      2/6/20       Appropriation.
248      3/1/20       Appropriation.
249      3/1/20       Poll tax.
250      3/1/20       Sidewalk construction.
251      4/12/20      Appropriation.
252      4/12/20      Sidewalk construction.
253      5/3/20       Construction of sanitary sewer system.
254      5/4/20       Appropriation.
255      6/7/20       Appropriation.
256      6/21/20      Electric power equipment bond issue.
257      7/9/20       Appropriation.
258      7/9/20       Sidewalk construction.
259      7/26/20      Tax levy.
260      8/2/20       Appropriation.
261      8/9/20       Vacating streets.
262      9/6/20       Appropriation.
263      9/6/20       Sidewalk construction.
264      9/6/20       Motor vehicles; mufflers.
265      10/4/20      Appropriation.
266      10/4/20      Waterwork s improvement bond issue.
267      10/4/20      Sewer system improvement bond issue.
268      10/4/20      Districting City; improvement bond issue; sewage system.
269      10/4/20      Electric light bond issue.
270      10/6/20      Condemnation of site for electric plan.
271      No date      Appropriation. (2nd page missing)
272      11/1/20      Extension of lateral sewer.
273      12/6/20      Appropriation.
274      12/6/20      Water and electric rates outside of City.
275      1/3/21       Waterworks system improvement bonds.
276      1/3/21       Appropriation.
277      1/17/21      Sewer bond issue.
278      2/1/21       Sewer bond issue.
279      2/7/21       Appropriation.
280      2/25/21      Business regulations; plumbing; inspector.
281      2/25/21      Privies, cesspools, catch basins prohibited on certain
                      properties.
282      3/7/21       Election; City officers.
283      3/7/21       Appropriation.
284      4/5/21       Appropriation.
285      5/2/21       Appropriation.
286      6/6/21       Appropriation.
287      7/28/21      Tax levy.
288      9/5/21       Protection of squirrels and birds.
289-290              (Missing)
291      9/5/21       Protection of squirrels and birds. (Identical to 288)
292-293              (Missing)
294      12/5/21      Sidewalk construction.
295      3/6/22       Business regulations; plumbing.
296      4/22         Curbing construction.
297      No date      Erection of barriers; excavations.
298      8/3/22       Tax levy.
299      8/3/22       Water and electric rates.
300      11/6/22      Stocks pens; nuisance.
301      2/5/23       Grant Golden Rule Oil Co. permission to erect buildings
                      and tanks.
302      3/3/23       Election; designating location.
303      5/7/23       Electric rates.
304      8/6/23       Tax levy.
305      10/1/23      Plumbing regulations .
306      12/4/23      Franchise; ice plant.
307      1/7/24       Traffic regulations.
308      7/21/24      Tax levy.
309      9/10/24      City park regulations.
310?     10/6/25      Businesses, license fees.
311      --           (Missing)
312      6/1/25       Intoxicating liquors.
313      6/1/25       Curfew; persons under eighteen.
314      6/1/25       Signboards and billboards.
315      6/1/25       Cigarette; tobacco.
316      7/6/25       Tax levy.
317      11/2/25      Water and electric rates.
318      12/7/25      Sidewalk construction.
319      6/7/26       Quarantine; communicable diseases; unwholesome
                      conditions.
320      7/28/26      Tax levy.
321      3/7/27       Election; designating location.
322      6/6/27       Officers; appointment.
323      6/6/27       Street sanding.
324      7/11/27      Tax levy.
325      8/8/27       Bulk stations, warehouses and filling stations.
326      8/8/27       Sidewalk construction.
327      9/5/27       Street sanding.
328      11/7/27      Rubbish, trash, combustible materials.
329      11/7/27      Explosives; storage.
330      11/7/27      Fire limits; building construction therein.
331      5/14/28      Payment of warrants.
332      8/6/28       Tax levy.
333      8/13/28      Water and electric rates.
334      10/17/28     Street improvement.
335      11/6/28      Street improvement.
336      11/19/28     Street improvement.
337      12/18/28     Street improvements, special assessments.
338      12/18/28     Street improvements, special assessments.
339      12/18/28     Street improvements, special assessments.
340      3/4/29       Election; designating location.
341      7/2/29       Street improvement.
342      7/2/29       Fire limits; building construction therein.
343      8/5/29       Tax levy.
344      12/31/29     Contract; C. C. Hamlin, power line.
345      1/6/30       Street improvements, special assessments.
346      2/3/30       Street improvements.
347      3/26/30      Street improvement bonds.
348      4/7/30       Street improvements.
349      5/6/30       Traffic; speed limit.
350      5/22/30      Street improvements, special assessments.
351      5/22/30      Street improvements, special assessments.
352      5/22/30      Street improvements; bond.
353      5/22/30      Street improvements; bond.
354      6/2/30       Billiard and pool rooms.
355      8/4/30       Tax levy.
356      8/18/30      Street improvement bonds.
357      8/18/30      Street improvements, special assessments.
358      11/3/30      Sidewalk construction.
359      11/3/30      Street improvement bonds.
360      11/3/30      Contract; Inland Utility Co.
361      11/3/30      Franchise; electricity.
362      11/3/30      Franchise; waterwork s.
363      11/3/30      Waterworks and electric contract, special election.
364      11/12/30     Waterworks and electric contract, special election.
365      1/5/31       Dance halls and public dances.
366      3/2/31       Election; designating location.
367      4/7/31       Sidewalk construction.
368      7/6/31       Intoxicating liquors.
369      7/6/31       Driving while under influence of intoxicating liquors or
                      drugs.
370      8/17/31      Tax levy.
371      9/21/31      Sidewalk construction.
372      10/5/31      Traffic regulations.
373      10/5/31      Street improvement bonds.
374      10/5/31      Street improvement bonds.
375      10/5/31      Street improvement bonds.
376      10/27/31     Street improvement bonds.
377      1/5/32       Street improvements, special assessments.
378      7/8/32       Sidewalk construction.
379      8/15/32      Tax levy.
380      3/16/33      Election; designating location.
381      8/14/33      Tax levy.
382      10/2/33      Billiard and pool halls.
383      --           (Missing)
384      5/10/34      Keeping of hogs and swine prohibited.
385      8/6/34       Tax levy.
386      2/4/35       Traffic regulations; traffic lights.
387      3/4/35       Election; designating location.
388      7/1/35       Traffic regulations; metal tires prohibited.
389      7/1/35       Occupation taxes.
390      8/12/35      Tax levy.
391      10/7/35      Salaries; officers.
392      10/7/35      Planning Commission created.
393      12/11/35     Zoning regulations.
394      5/5/36       Franchise; gas.
395      3/2/36       Franchise; ice plant.
396      --           (Missing)
397      1936         Vacating alleys.
398      5/4/36       Advertising; handbills, circulars, etc.
399      7/20/36      Tax levy.
400      10/5/36      Vacating alley.
401      11/5/36      Natural gas; installation and inspection.
402      2/1/37       Traffic regulations; parking.
403      3/1/37       Business license tax; photographers and solicitors.
404      3/1/37       Election.
405      3/1/37       Special bond election; construction of City Hall and
                      auditorium.
406      3/1/37       Electrical Inspector; office created.
407      4/26/37      Cereal malt beverage.
408      6/7/37       Salaries; City officers.
--       5/12/37      Vacating lots. (No Ord. #)
409      6/7/37       Street improvements.
410      6/10/37      Street improvements, special assessments.
411      7/5/37       Vacating alley.
412      7/5/37       Fire limits.
413      8/2/37       Tax levy.
414      8/2/37       Natural gas; piping.
415      12/6/37      Master plumber.
416      12/6/37      Tampering with fire hydrant unlawful.
417      5/23/38      Street improvements, temporary notes.
418      8/1/38       Traffic regulations; parking.
419      8/1/38       Tax levy.
420-422              (Missing)
423      3/6/39       Election; City officials.
424      5/9/39       Zoning amendment.
425      8/7/39       Street improvement.
426      8/7/39       Tax levy.
427      6/3/40       Street improvement bonds.
428      6/3/40       Street improvement bonds.
429      8/5/40       Street improvement bonds.
430      8/5/40       Tax levy.
431      --           (Missing)
432      3/3/41       Election; officials.
433      5/5/41       Salaries; City officers.
434      7/7/41       Donation of cemetery grounds to Scott County.
435      8/11/41      Tax levy.
436      7/6/42       Salaries; City officers.
437      8/3/42       Tax levy.
438      1/11/43      Salaries; City officers.
439      3/1/43       Election; City officials.
440      5/3/43       Minors in billiard and pool halls.
441      6/7/43       Fire limits.
442      6/7/43       Salaries; City officers.
443      8/2/43       Tax levy.
444      11/1/43      Fire Department; organization.
445      12/6/43      Salaries; City officers.
446      3/6/44       Salaries; City officers.
447      5/1/44       Salaries; City officers.
448      8/7/44       Tax levy.
449      2/5/45       Salaries; City officers.
450      3/5/45       Election; City officials.
451      6/25/45      Sewer disposal system improvement bonds.
452      8/6/45       Tax levy.
453      6/3/46       Vacating alley.
454      --           (Missing)
455      7/1/46       Aircraft regulations,
456      8/5/46       Tax levy.
457      8/5/46       Special election; bonds, airport, street improvements.
458      9/2/46       Sewer construction bonds.
459      9/2/46       Salaries; City officers.
460      --           (Missing)
461      10/7/46      Sanitary sewers, improvement .sanitary sewers.
462      11/4/46      Rubbish, trash, combustible materials.
463      11/4/46      Plumbing regulations .
464      1/2/47       Misdemeanors.
465      2/3/47       Taxicab regulations; appointment of taxicab inspector.
466      2/3/47       Tax levy; purchase of fire truck.
467      3/3/47       Election; City officials.
468      3/3/47       Airport; special election for bond issue.
469      6/2/47       Airport bond issue.
470      6/2/47       Dance halls and public dances.
471      8/4/47       Tax levy.
472      --           (Missing)
473      10/6/47      Pipeline license agreement.
474      11/3/47      Rubbish, trash.
475      11/3/47      Vacating alley.
476      5/3/48       Easement; industrial track.
477      7/6/48       Salaries; City officials.
478-479  --           (Missing)
480      8/2/48       Traffic regulations.
481      8/9/48       Tax levy.
482      --           (Missing)
483      9/7/48       Natural gas rates.
484-485  --           (Missing)
486      4/4/49       Vacating alley.
487-490  --           (Missing)
491      7/5/49       Occupation tax; alcoholic liquor.
492      --           (Missing)
493      9/8/49       Trailer camp regulations.
494      1949         Firefighting service.
495      10/3/49      Fire Department established.
--       11/21/49     Sewer construction bonds. (No Ordinance #)
496-504  --           (Missing)
505      7/3/50       Misdemeanors.
506      7/3/50       Dance halls and public dances.
507-509  --           (Missing)
510      8/28/50      Sewer construction bonds.
511      8/28/50      Sewer construction bonds.
512-519  --           (Missing)
520      7/2/51       Sewer construction bonds.
521-522  --           (Missing)
523      No date      Garbage and trash.
524-527  --           (Missing)
528      5/5/52       Wards; City declared as 2nd Class City.
529      --           (Missing)
530      9/1/52       Sidewalk construction.
531-538  --           (Missing)
539      8/24/53      Traffic regulations.
540      8/7/53       Franchise, ice plant.
541-544  --           (Missing)
545      No date      Salaries, qualifications; City officers.
546      12/6/54      Television antennas.
547      --           (Missing)
548      7/5/55       Traffic regulations.
--       10/55        Vehicle license; minors. (No Ordinance #)
549-552  --           (Missing)
553      12/5/55      Zoning amendment.
554-555  --           (Missing)
556      3/5/56       Zoning amendment.
557      5/7/56       Corporate boundaries.
--       5/56         Corporate boundaries. (No Ordinance #)
558      No date      Wards.
559      7/2/56       Sale of cereal malt beverages.
560      8/6/56       Planning Commission.
561      1/7/57       Franchise, Southwestern Bell Telephone Co.
562      --           (Missing)
563      3/4/57       Zoning amendment.
564      4/1/57       Street Commissioner; office created.
565      4/7/58       Nuisances; rank grass, weeds.
566      No date      Amendment to water service franchise. (2nd page missing)
567      9/1/58       Reopening street.
568      --           (Missing)
569      9/58         Vacating street.
570      3/2/59       Street improvement.
571      3/2/59       Temporary improvement notes; street improvements.
572-573  --           (Missing)
574      5/4/59       Obstructing streets and sidewalks.
575      --           (Missing)
576      5/27/59      Street improvement.
577      5/27/59      Street improvements, temporary improvement notes.
578      5/27/59      Corporate limits.
579      --           (Missing)
580      6/1/59       Street improvement.
581      7/6/59       Parking and standing of vehicles.
--       1959         Public and private sewers. (No Ordinance #)
582      5/2/60       Street Commissioner; compensation.
583      5/2/60       Salaries; City officers.
584      1960         Special assessments; street improvements.
585      5/2/60       Annexation.
586      6/6/60       Vacating alley.
587      6/6/60       Salaries; City officers.
588      10/3/60      Incorporating Standard Traffic Ordinance 1960 Edition.
589      11/7/60      Annexation.
590      --           (Missing)
591      2/6/61       Annexation.
592      2/6/61       Television antennas.
593      3/6/61       Street dedication.
594      3/6/61       City limits and boundaries.
595      4/4/61       Federal and State aid; highway construction.
596      5/1/61       Signs, billboards, roadside displays.
597      5/5/61       Zoning amendment.
598      8/7/61       Street improvements, bond issue.
599      9/4/61       Salaries, qualifications; City officials.
600      9/4/61       Group insurance.
601      10/2/61      Supervised recreation system established.
602      10/2/61      Gasoline; flammable liquids.
603      11/6/61      Vacating streets.
604      3/62         Annexation.
605      3/62         Annexation.
606      4/2/62       Zoning amendment.
606      5/5/61       Zoning amendment. (Duplication of ord. #)
607      5/7/62       Salaries, qualification; City officials.
608      5/7/62       Abandoning refrigerator, freezer, similar mechanism.
609      9/4/62       Dogs running at large.
610      12/3/62      Annexation.
611      12/20/62     Sewer construction bonds.
612      12/20/62     Sewer construction, temporary improvement notes.
613      --           (Missing)
614      2/4/63       Misdemeanor; resisting officer.
615      3/4/63       Temporary notes; sewer construction.
616      1963         Corporate boundaries .
617      5/8/63       Sewer construction bonds.
618      9/3/63       Garbage; trash.
619      12/3/63      Franchise; electric.
620      --           (Missing)
621      9/19/63      Park bonds, special election.
622      10/7/63      Sewer construction, special assessment.
623      10/7/63      Sewer construction, special assessment.
624      10/7/63      Sewer construction, special assessment.
625      10/7/63      Sewer construction bonds.
626      1/6/64       Sewer construction bond issue.
627      6/4/64       Street improvements, temporary notes.
628      4/6/64       Trees and ornamental shrubs.
629      7/6/64       Street improvements.
630      12/7/64      Vacate alley
631      12/7/64      Sewer main easement granted.
632      12/7/64      Billiard and pool rooms.
633      1/5/65       Sewer improvement bonds.
634      4/5/65       Sewer bond issue; repeals Ordinance 626.
635      5/3/65       Zoning amendment.
635      6/21/65      Street improvements.
636      6/7/65       Annexation.
637      8/2/65       Cereal malt beverage; open containers.
638      10/7/65      Street improvement bonds.
639      2/7/66       Salaries; City employees .
640      2/7/66       Planning Commission created.
641      4/4/66       Traffic regulations.
642      11/7/66      Trailer courts.
643      11/22/66     Zoning amendment.
644      --           (Missing)
645      No date      Trailer camps.
645A     8/7/67       Zoning amendment.
646      --           (Missing)
647      10/2/67      Traffic regulation.
648      --           (Missing)
649      7/1/68       Open fires.
650      8/5/68       Franchise; gas.
651      8/5/68       Annexation.
652      --           (Missing)
653      9/3/68       Standard Traffic Ordinance 1968 Edition.
654      --           (Missing)
655      12/31/68     Annexation.
656      3/4/69       Franchise; cable television.
657      2/6/69       Purchase fire truck; no-fund warrants.
658      3/3/69       Street improvements, temporary notes.
659      3/3/69       Vacating alley.
660      6/2/69       Purchase fire truck.
661      7/7/69       Encroach ment.
662      7/7/69       Federal and State aid; highway construction.
663      9/2/69       Nuisance; keeping livestock.
664      10/6/69      Nuisances; keeping livestock
665      --           (Missing)
666      7/6/70       Minor's operator license.
667      --           (Missing)
668      9/8/70       Wards.
669      9/8/70       Street improvement bonds.
670      9/8/70       Storm drain construction; temporary notes.
671      9/8/70       Sewer construction; bonds.
672      9/23/70      Temporary notes; street drainage, sewer improvements.
673      10/5/70      Dogs and cats running at large.
674      --           (Missing)
675      4/5/71       Council, compensation for meeting attendance.
676      7/5/71       Police Court; fees; criminal actions.
677      --           (Missing)
678      11/1/71      Building Code 1971 Edition, adopted.
679      11/1/71      Electrical Code 1971 Edition, adopted.
680      11/1/71      Uniform Plumbing Code 1970 Edition, adopted.
681      12/6/71      Misdemeanors.
682      3/6/72       Contract; airport manager.
683      3/6/72       Zoning amendment.
684      3/6/72       Airport Committee.
685      9/28/72      Land acquisition.
686      10/2/72      Special election; community park, recreation grounds.
687      11/6/72      Greater Southwest Regional Planning Commissi on created.
688      11/6/72      Purchase of street equipment; no-fund warrants.
689      2/5/73       Franchise; water.
690      --           (Missing)
691      3/5/73       Plat change.
692      9/4/73       Annexation.
693      9/4/73       Sewer construction; assessments; bonds.
694      10/1/73      Special election; bonds, community park and recreation
                      grounds.
Res.     9/4/73       Land acquisition.
695      9/4/73       Street improvements.
696      9/4/73       Sewer construction, temporary notes.
697      9/4/73       Parking on certain streets.
698      12/3/73      Standard Traffic Ordinance, 1973 Edition.
699?     11/4/74      Bicycle registration; fees.
700      12/3/73      City Hall; no-fund warrants.
701      10/7/74      Adopting Fire Prevention Code, 1970 edition.
702      No date      Misdemeanors; keeping barking dogs.
703      4/1/74       Sewer construction; assessments; bonds.
704      4/1/74       Street improvement.
705      No date      Purchase of street equipment; no-fund warrants.
706      --           (Missing)
707      7/22/74      Sewer construction; temporary improvem ent notes.
708      7/22/74      Street improvement.
709      7/22/74      Storm drain construction; temporary improvement notes.
710      7/22/74      Annexation.
711      8/5/74       Vacating alley.
712      8/5/74       Plat change.
713      8/8/74       Traffic.
714      8/5/74       Curfew.
715      8/19/74      Sewer construction; temporary improvement notes.
716      8/19/74      Street improvement.
717      9/2/74       Bond; community park and recreation grounds.
718      --           (Missing)
719      10/7/74      Standard Traffic Ordinance 1974 Edition.
720      No date      Authorizing ordinance codification.
721      12/2/74      Annexation.
722      12/2/74      Fire Prevention Code amendments; aboveground storage
                      tanks.
723      --           (Missing)
724      2/13/75      Sewer and street improvements; temporary improvement
                      note.
725-726  --           (Missing)
727      5/5/75       Annexation.
728      5/5/75       Plat change.
729      5/5/75       Water rates.
730      6/2/75       Adopting National Building Code 1967 Edition.
731      6/2/75       Board of Zoning Appeals.
732      6/17/75      Street improvement bonds.
733      8/4/75       Salary; judge pro-tem.
734      9/2/75       Unfit buildings and structures.
735      9/2/75       Zoning amendment.
736      10/8/75      Street, sanitary sewer and drainage improvements; bonds.
737      12/1/75      Zoning amendment.
738      1/5/76       Airport Enterprise Fund.
739      1/5/76       Claims from street and sewer special assessments.
740      1/5/76       Fire Prevention Code amendments.
741      2/2/76       Council meeting time.
742      3/1/76       Purchase refuse equipment; no-fund warrants.
743      3/1/76       Purchase and replace street equipment; no-fund warrants.
744      5/3/76       Plat change.
745      5/17/76      Excavation permit; bond.
746      6/21/76      Solid waste.
747      7/19/76      Sewer use fee.
748      8/2/76       Street improvement.
749      9/20/76      Disposal of solid waste service charges.
750      9/20/76      Zoning and subdivision amendments.
751-798  --           (Missing)
799      10/1/79      Standard Traffic Ordinance 1979 Edition.
800      12/3/79      Burning prohibited.
801      2/1/80       Water franchise amendment.
802      3/3/80       Street improvements, special assessments.
803      3/3/80       Street improvements, special assessments.
804      3/3/80       Street improvements, special assessments.
805      3/3/80       Street improvements, special assessments.
806      3/3/80       Street improvements, special assessments.
807      3/3/80       Street improvements, special assessments.
808      3/3/80       Street improvements, special assessments.
809      3/3/80       Street improvements, special assessments.
810      3/3/80       Street improvements, special assessments.
811      3/3/80       Street improvements, special assessments.
812      3/3/80       Street improvements, special assessments.
813      4/7/80       Tractor-trailers dollies; lowering or extending in public
                      streets.
814      4/7/80       Drains and drain outlets construction.
815      4/7/80       Reducing rate of taxation of intangibles.
816      5/5/80       Corporate limits.
817      5/5/80       Airport facilities improvements, special fund.
818      5/5/80       Sanitary sewer improvements, special assessments.
819      7/7/80       Contract; storm drains.
820      7/7/80       Acquisition of property; senior citizen housing.
821      8/4/80       Parking, stopping and standing of vehicles.
822      8/6/80       Street, sanitary sewer and drainage improvements; bonds.
823      9/2/80       Parking; trucks.
824      9/19/80      Street, sewer and drainage improvement bonds; amendment.
825      10/6/80      Annexation.
826      1/5/81       Annexation.
827      12/1/80      Change of name; Greater Southwest Regional Planning
                      Commission.
828      1/5/81       Industrial revenue bonds; acquire property.
829      No date      Purchase of street sweeper; no-fund warrants.
830      3/2/81       Public dance license fee.
831      4/6/81       Misdemeanor; littering.
832      4/23/81      Council, compensation for meeting attendance.
833      5/4/81       Cable TV franchise amendment.
834      12/7/81      Sewer use fee.
835      3/1/82       Zoning amendment.
836      3/1/82       Water service rates.
837      3/1/82       Temporary businesses.
838      5/3/82       Uniform personnel rules and regulations.
839      8/2/82       Zoning amendment.
840      11/1/82      Curfew.
841      1/3/83       Deferred compensation plan.
842      2/7/83       Water service rates.
843      5/17/83      Zoning amendment.
844      5/17/83      Council, compensation for meeting attendance.
845      5/17/83      Adopting ordinance, codification.
846      6/6/83       Annexation.
847      6/ 6/83      Sinking fund; airport improvements.
848      8/15/83      Cereal malt beverage licenses; prohibited zones.
849      3/5/84       Franchise; electric.
850      12/13/83     Zoning amendment.
851      12/13/83     Zoning amendment.
852      1/3/84       City Tree Board.
853      4/24/84      Fees for accessing and/or copying open public records.
854      6/18/84      Cable TV franchise amendment.
855      8/6/84       Regular Council meetings.
856      8/6/84       Mobile home park; license fee.
857      8/20/84      Unlawful operation of air guns, rifles, bow and arrows.
858      8/20/84      License for temporary businesses.
859      9/4/84       Tree Board.
860      9/17/84      Consumpti on of alcoholic liquor.
861      9/17/84      Custody and disposition of property seized.
862      10/1/84      Vacating street.
863      1/7/85       Chapter 12, City Code; fine schedule; amendment.
864      3/18/85      Parking.
865      4/1/85       National Electric Code amendment.
866      4/15/85      Livestock; poultry; running at large.
867      4/15/85      Uniform Plumbing Code amendment.
867B     6/3/85       Animals; dangerous animals.
868      4/15/85      Council, compensation for meeting attendance.
869      8/5/85       Zoning amendments (Chapter 13).
870      No date      Zoning amendments (Chapter 13)
871      8/19/85      Removal of traffic hazards on private property.
872      9/16/85      Driving under influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs.
873      11/18/85     Water rates.
874      No date      Telephone lines; Southwestern Bell Telephone Co.
875      1/6/86       Sick leave; employees.
876      4/7/86       Release of impounded dogs or cats.
877      4/7/86       Uniform Personnel Rules and Regulations amendment.
878      5/19/86      Airport facility improvements, sinking fund.
879      6/2/86       Dangerous and noisy dogs and cats.
880      6/16/86      Parking of buses, trucks, tractors, etc.
881      7/7/86       Employee benefits contribution fund.
882      10/20/86     National Building Code amendments.
883      11/3/86      Bonds; City officers.
884      11/3/86      Administrator act as purchasing agent.
885      12/15/86     Building Code 1985 Edition, adopted.
886      12/15/86     National Electric Code 1984 Edition, adopted; amendments.
887      --           (Missing)
888      3/2/87       Standard Traffic Ordinance, 1986.
889      4/6/87       Vacating streets.
890      No date      Vacation.
891      4/20/87      Vacation.
892      4/20/87      Zoning amendment; zoning map.
893      5/18/87      Amendments to Standard Traffic Ordinance, 1986.
894      7/6/87       Standard Traffic Ordinance; infraction and offenses.
895      8/17/87      Zoning amendment procedures; fees and regulations.
896      9/8/87       Uniform Personnel Rules and Regulations for Employees.
897      11/16/87     Standard Traffic Ordinance, 1987; infractions and
                      offenses.
898      12/21/87     Franchise; cable TV.
899      12/7/87      Procedure for street and alley repair.
900      3/7/88       City limits and boundaries.
901      4/18/88      Cable TV franchise amendment.
902      4/18/88      Water service; excavation, meter deposits.
903      4/18/88      Sinking fund; Fire Department equipment.
904      6/6/88       Industrial revenue bonds Trustee and paying agent
                      designated.
905      6/20/88      Corporate limits and City boundaries.
906      7/5/88       Uniform Building Code 1988 Edition, adopted; Building
                      Inspector as Fire Chief's Inspector.
907      7/5/88       Electrical Code 1987 Edition, adopted.
908      7/5/88       Uniform Plumbing Code 1988 Edition, adopted.
909      7/5/88       Uniform Mechanical Code 1988 Edition, adopted.
910      7/5/88       Uniform Administrative Code 1988 Edition, adopted.
911      7/5/88       Uniform Fire Code 1988 Edition, adopted.
912      7/18/88      Standard Traffic Ordinance 1988 Edition.
913      10/17/88     Temporary business permit requirements.
914      12/19/88     Procedure for repairing or replacing driveways, curbs and
                      gutters.
915      1/3/89       Ward boundaries.
916      2/6/89       Standard Traffic Ordinance 1988 Edition.
917      2/6/89       Zoning amendment; garages and auto repair shop in
                      appropriate areas.
918      --           (Missing)
919      6/19/89      Amending Standard Traffic Ordinance.
920      7/17/89      Sinking fund; Airport facilities improvem ents.
921      7/17/89      Repealing Ordinance 918.
922      9/5/89       Franchise; electric.
923      9/5/89       Procedure for street or alley repair.
924      11/6/89      Theft; criminal damage to property.
925      1/2/90       Amending Standard Traffic Ordinance.
926      1/2/90       Repealing Ordinance 655.
927      1/2/90       Electrical Code 1990 Edition, adopted.
928      3/6/90       Waste discharged into the sanitary sewer system.
929      5/7/90       Special bond election; acquisition of privately-owned
                      water system.
930      6/14/90      Election; joint City/school district recreation system.
931      7/16/90      Employee benefits contribution fund.
932      12/3/90      Plumbers; qualifications, etc.
933      12/3/90      Electricians; qualification, etc.
934      12/3/90      Standard Traffic Ordinance 1990 Edition.
935      12/6/90      Acquisition of water system; bonds.
936      5/6/91       Water system regulations.
937      6/3/91       Water system regulations.
938      6/3/91       Cross-connection control.
939      6/3/91       Uniform Plumbing Code amendments.
940      7/1/91       Uniform Mechanical Code 1991 Edition, adopted.
941      8/5/91       Definition; rank grass, weeds; abatement.
942      9/16/91      Standard Traffic Ordinance 1991 Edition.
943      11/4/91      Water; turning on.
944      10/7/91      Board of Review of Scott City Industrial Park created.
945      3/2/91       Purchase or sale of City property through public bidding
                      process.
946      5/6/92       Uniform Building Code and Standards 1991 Edition,
                      adopted.
947      3/2/92       Zoning amendment.
948      4/6/92       Structures damaged by fire or explosion.
949      7/6/92       Mobile homes.
950      4/20/92      I-P Industrial Park zoning district.
951      7/6/92       I-P Industrial Park zoning district.
952      7/20/92      Peeping tom.
953      7/6/92       Weeds and vegetation.
954      2/1/?        Nuisances. (No year with passage date)
955      12/7/92      Amending Standard Traffic Ordinance 1992 Edition.
956      2/16/93      Comprehensive Plan adopted.
957      3/1/93       City limits and boundaries.
958      3/1/93       Municipal equipment reserve fund.
959      12/7/93      Vacating alley.
960      6/7/93       Amendment to Uniform Plumbing Code.
960      12/20/93     Board of Appeals/Planning and Zoning Commission.
961      12/20/93     Building contractor defined; requirements and fees.
962      6/21/93      Uniform Building Code and Standards 1991 Editions,
                      adopted.
963      7/6/93       Council, compensation for meeting attendance.
964      7/6/93       Street vacation.
965      7/19/93      Standard Traffic Ordinance 1993 Edition.
966      8/2/93       National Electrical Code 1993 Edition, adopted.
967      10/4/93      Uniform Building Code amendments.
968      6/20/94      Naming certain street.
969      5/20/94      Changing boundaries.
970      9/6/94       Uniform Building Code and Standards 1994 Editions,
                      adopted.
971      9/6/94       Mechanical Code 1994 Edition, adopted.
972      9/6/94       Uniform Plumbing Code 1994 Edition, adopted.
973      9/6/94       Dollar limits; purchases.
974      11/7/94      Annexation.
975      11/21/94     Standard Traffic Ordinance.
976      1/3/95       Zoning district boundary change.
977      1/3/95       Repeals Chapter 3, Article 208 of Ord. 845.
978      3/3/95       Zoning district boundary change.
979      4/17/95      Dead or diseased tree removal.
980      7/17/95      Vacation.
981      10/16/95     Street improvements, temporary notes.
982      10/16/95     Zoning district boundary change.
983      11/6/95      Powers, duties and responsibilities; City Administrator.
984      11/20/95     Home occupations and mobile home placement.
985      11/20/95     Standard Traffic Ordinance 1995 Edition.
986      1/15/96      Franchise; gas.
987      2/5/96       National Electrical Code 1996 Edition.
988      6/3/96       Water emergency declared.
989      7/1/96       City Administra tor employment, authority eliminated.
990      9/3/96       Standard Traffic Ordinance 1996 Edition.
991      3/17/97      City officers; appointment, duties, removal.
992      6/16/97      Water turn-on application, fee, nonpayment of bills.
993      6/16/97      Franchise, cable television.
994      7/7/97       Curb and gutter improvements, assessment on lots.
995      8/4/97       Weeds and vegetation, abatement.
996      8/4/97       Curfew for minors.
997      8/18/97      Standard Traffic Ordinance 1997 Edition.
998      9/2/97       Zoning amendment, home occupations.
999      9/2/97       Uniform Public Offense Code 1997 Edition.
1000     9/17/97      Water emergency, water watch, conservation.
1001     5/6/98       Franchise, cable television.
1002     4/6/98       Zoning district boundary change.
1003     4/20/98      Zoning amendment, home occupations.
1004     9/8/98       Franchise, gas.
1005     10/7/98      Vacation.
1006     11/2/98      Loud sound amplification systems prohibited.
1007     1/4/99       Sewer use fees.
1008     2/16/99      Vacation.
1009     2/16/99      NFPA fire prevention code, 1997 edition, adopted.
1010     4/5/99       Authorization for codification.
1011     4/5/99       Adopting ordinance.
1012     5/3/99       Environmental quality of residential neighborhoods,
                      definitions.
1013     7/19/99      Zoning district boundary change.
1014     7/19/99      Tax levy increase.
1015     9/20/99      Curb and gutter improvements, assessment on lots.
1016     2/21/00      Vacation.
1017     3/20/00      Zoning district boundary change.
1018     3/20/00      Vacation.
                      Appointments by mayor; amending duties of superintendent
1019     5/8/00       of public works, and creating a new position
                      superintendent of parks.
1020     7/17/00      Applications for water service, service connections and
                      water rates.
1021     8/21/00      Annexation.
1022     10/2/00      Standard traffic ordinance, 2000 edition, adopted.
1023     10/2/00      Uniform public offense code, 2000 edition, adopted.
1024     10/2/00      Vacation.
1025     11/6/00      Delinquent bills for water service.
1026     4/16/01      Use, possession, and sale of toxic vapors.
1027     7/2/01       Maddux park.
1028     7/16/01      Standard traffic ordinance, 2001 edition, adopted.
1029     7/16/01      Uniform public offense code, 2001 edition, adopted.
1030     8/6/01       Vacation.
1031     8/20/01      Vacation.
1032     8/20/01      Zoning district boundary change.
1033     5/20/02      Issuance of water system refunding bonds.
1034     6/3/02       International building code, 2000 edition, adopted.
1035     6/3/02       National electrical code, 1999 edition, adopted.
1036     6/3/02       International plumbing code, 2000 edition, adopted.
1037     6/3/02       International mechanical code, 2000 edition, adopted.
1038     8/5/02       Vacation.
1039     8/5/02       Transient guest tax.
1040     9/16/02      Standard traffic ordinance, 2002 edition, adopted.
1041     9/16/02      Uniform public offense code, 2002 edition, adopted.
1042     9/16/02      Delinquent bills for water service.
1043     2/17/03      Pre-1976 mobile homes, penalty.
1044     5/19/03      Pre-1976 mobile homes.
1045     8/ 4/03      Increase tax revenue.
1046     8/ 4/03      Standard traffic ordinance, 2003 edition, adopted.
1047     8/ 4/03      Uniform public offense code, 2003 edition, adopted.
1048     8/ 4/03      Vacation.
1049     9/ 2/03      Curb, gutter and paving improvements, assessment on lots.
1050     10/6/03      Territorial applicability of building regulations and
                      codes.
1051     11/17/03     Annexation.
1052     4/5/04       Amendment to the uniform public offense code.
7        7/19/04      Charter ordinance; exempts city from certain state
                      statute provisions.
1053     7/19/04      Annexation.
1054     8/16/04      Standard traffic ordinance, 2003 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1055     8/16/04      Uniform public offense code, 2003 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1056     9/20/04      Amendment to annexation.
1057     12/20/04     Annexation.
1058     12/20/04     Annexation.
1059     7/18/05      Standard traffic ordinance, 2005 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1060     7/18/05      Uniform public offense code, 2005 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
8        9/19/05      Charter ordinance; levy of a transient gas tax and
                      expenditure of such funds.
1061     10/17/05     Contract franchise ordinance granted to Southwestern Bell
                      Telephone, L.P.
1062     12/5/05      Requirement for telecommunications local exchange service
                      providers to enter into a franchise agreement.
1063     12/5/05      Franchise fees charged and collected by Midwest Energy,
                      Inc.
1064     2/6/06       Amendment to transient guest tax.
1065     4/17/06      Temporary businesses.
1066     5/1/06       Comprehensive plan adopted.
1067     6/19/06      Zoning and subdivision regulations.
1068     6/19/06      Zoning regulations for land located outside city limits.
1069     7/3/06       Adding annexed properties to ward boundaries.
1070     8/21/06      Delinquent water bills and landlord liability.
1071     9/5/06       Neighborhood revitalization adopting ordinance.
1072     9/18/06      Standard traffic ordinance, 2006 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1073     9/18/06      Uniform public offense code, 2006 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1074     12/4/06      Retailers' sales tax levy.
1075     1/2/07       Vicious or noisy dogs and other amendmen ts to dogs and
                      cats.
1076     4/16/07      Water rates and cross connection control.
1077     6/18/07      Application to connect to city sewer.
1077-A   8/20/07      Standard traffic ordinance, 2007 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1078     8/20/07      Uniform public offense code, 2007 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1079     9/17/07      Annexation.
1080     10/1/07      Vacation.
1081     1/21/08      Insurance proceeds from building damage.
1082     2/4/08       Vacation.
1083     5/5/08       Amending and changing boundaries of a zoning district.
1084     5/5/08       Annexation.
1085     6/16/08      Adoption of building code.
1086     6/16/08      Adoption of electrical code.
1087     6/16/08      Adoption of plumbing code.
1088     6/16/08      Adoption of mechanical code.
1089     7/21/08      Increase tax revenues.
1090     8/18/08      Sewer use fee.
1091     8/18/08      Standard traffic ordinance, 2008 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1092     8/18/08      Uniform public offense code, 2008 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1093     10/6/08      Vacation.
1094     10/6/08      Vicious or noisy dogs, definitions.
1095     10/6/08      Livestock, poultry and swine.
1096     10/20/08     Court proceedings.
1097     11/17/08     Water rates.
1098     1/5/09       Annexation.
1099     6/15/09      Amending and changing boundaries of a zoning district.
1100     8/17/09      Amending and changing boundaries of a zoning district.
1101     8/17/09      Standard traffic ordinance, 2009 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1102     8/17/09      Uniform public offense code, 2009 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1103     9/8/09       Amending and changing boundaries of a zoning district.
1104     9/21/09      Temporary cereal malt beverage licenses.
1105     11/2/09      Compensation of city council and mayor.
1106     11/2/09      Ordinances.
1107     11/16/09     Vacation.
1108     11/16/09     Adoption of 2010 neighborhood revitalization plan.
1109     12/7/09      Water rates.
1110     2/16/10      Amending and changing boundaries of a zoning district.
1111     6/21/10      Parking on nonimproved surfaces in R-1, R-2 and R-
                      3 districts.
1112     7/6/10       Annexation.
1113     7/19/10      Annexation.
1114     9/7/10       Amending and changing boundaries of a zoning district.
1115     9/7/10       Standard traffic ordinance, 2010 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1116     9/7/10       Uniform public offense code, 2010 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1117     9/20/10      Annexation.
1118     12/6/10      Water rates.
1119     12/6/10      Sewer use fee.
1120     3/21/11      Amending and changing boundaries of a zoning district.
1121     8/1/11       Standard traffic ordinance, 2011 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1122     8/1/11       Uniform public offense code, 2011 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1123     8/1/11       Special event retailers permit.
1124     9/6/11       Occupation tax and licensing provisions for alcoholic
                      liquors and private clubs.
1125     9/6/11       Water rates.
9        10/17/11     Charter ordinance; exempts city from provisions of the
                      underground utility damage protection act.
1126     1/16/12      Authorizing certain improvements to the city water supply
                      system.
1127     4/2/12       Water rates.
1128     5/7/12       Sewer use fee.
1129     8/6/12       Standard traffic ordinance, 2012 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1130     8/6/12       Uniform public offense code, 2012 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1131     8/6/12       Increase tax revenues.
1132     9/4/12       Annexation.
1133     9/4/12       Annexation.
1134     9/17/12      Outdoor watering; prohibited acts and activities.
1135     11/5/12      Amending and changing boundaries of a zoning district.
1136     2/4/13       Compensation of city council and mayor.
1137     4/1/13       Amending and changing boundaries of a zoning district.
1138     4/15/13      Water system regulations and water rates.
1139     5/6/13       Amending and changing boundaries of a zoning district.
1140     5/20/13      Accessory buildings, uses and activities.
1141     6/3/13       Prohibited acts and activities.
1142     7/1/13       Amending and changing boundaries of a zoning district.
1143     7/15/13      Increase tax revenues.
1144     8/5/13       Authorizing the issuance of bonds.
1145     8/19/13      Standard traffic ordinance, 2013 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1146     8/19/13      Uniform public offense code, 2013 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1147     10/21/13     Amending and changing boundaries of a zoning district.
1148     11/18/13     Environme ntal quality of residential neighborhoods.
1149     12/2/13      Amending and changing boundaries of a zoning district.
1150     12/2/13      Water rates.
1151     1/20/14      Amending and changing boundaries of a zoning district.
1152     6/16/14      Street improvements, special assessments.
1153     6/16/14      Street improvements, special assessments.
1154     7/7/14       Vacating an alley.
1155     7/21/14      Water conservation during emergencies.
1156     8/4/14       Street improvement bonds.
1157     8/4/14       Amending and changing boundaries of a zoning district.
1158     9/2/14       Franchise, electric.
1159     10/6/14      Standard traffic ordinance, 2014 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1160                 Uniform public offense code, 2014 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1161     10/20/14     Demolishi ng, altering or moving; permit, fee required;
                      penalty.
1162     10/20/14     Curb cuts for driveways.
1163     4/6/15       Amending and changing boundaries of a zoning district.
1164     4/6/15       Zoning regulations .
1165     7/20/15      Annexation.
1166     7/20/15      Amending and changing boundaries of a zoning district.
1167     9/8/15       Standard traffic ordinance, 2015 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1168     9/8/15       Uniform public offense code, 2015 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1169     9/8/15       Amending and changing boundaries of a zoning district.
1170     11/2/15      Amending and changing boundaries of a zoning district.
1171     11/16/15     Temporary businesses.
1172     4/18/16      Court costs.
10       8/1/16       Charter Ordinance; exempts City from provisions relating
                      to election of officers.
1173     8/15/16      Standard Traffic Ordinance, 2016 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1174     8/15/16      Uniform Public Offense Code, 2016 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1175     9/6/16       Zoning regulations.
1176     10/3/16      Conditional uses.
1177     11/7/16      City elections.
1178     12/5/16      Appointme nts by Mayor.
1179     3/20/17      Water system regulations.
1180     4/3/17       Home occupations.
1181     4/3/17       Temporary business license exemptions.
1182     5/2/17       Residential Code adoption and amendments.
1183     7/3/17       Water rates.
1184     7/17/17      Standard Traffic Ordinance, 2017 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1185     7/17/17      Uniform Public Offense Code, 2017 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1186     9/5/17       Amending and changing boundaries of a zoning district.
1187     12/4/17      Amending and changing boundaries of a zoning district.
1188     4/2/18       Amending Standard Traffic Ordinance.
1189     7/16/18      Vacancies in office.
1190     8/6/18       Dogs and cats.
1191     8/20/18      Standard Traffic Ordinance, 2018 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1192     8/20/18      Uniform Public Offense Code, 2018 edition, adopted;
                      amendments.
1193     9/4/18       Natural gas franchise granted.
1194     9/17/18      Vacating an alley.
1195     12/3/18      Water rates.
1196     3/4/19       Cereal malt beverages.
1197     5/20/19      Standard Traffic Ordinance amendment.
1198     5/20/19      Manufactured home requirements.
1199     5/20/19      Wireless facilities.
1200     6/3/19       Small cell wireless facilities.
1201     6/3/19       Building permit fees.
1202     7/15/19      Traffic code; public offenses code
1203     12/6/19      Changing zoning classificati on
11       8/19/19      Charter Ord.; Repealing Charter ord. 78-1
2019-12  9/3/19       Charter Ord.; Exemption from real estate bid off
13       2/3/20       Charter Ord.; Elections and mayor and treasurer
1204     3/16/20      Appropriations
1205     5/4/20       Re-zoning
1206     7/6/20       Background checks for cereal malt beverage licenses
1207     7/6/20       Unfit structures procedures
1208     9/21/20      Mayor duties
1209     2/1/21       Rezoning
1210     5/2/21       Annexation
1211     5/17/21      Rezoning
1216     6/7/21       City Administrator; Bond of Officers
1217     8/16/21      Loan agreement
1218     8/16/21      Adopting 2021 Standard Traffic Ordinance and 2021 Uniform
                      Public Offense Code
1219     9/7/21       Fire Protection Service
1220     9/20/21      Release from impoundment; fees
1221     9/20/21      Cats and dogs running at large
1222     9/20/21      Water rates
1223     10/4/21      Application for water service; fee
1224     10/8/21      Demolishing and moving buildings
1225     11/15/21     Sewer rates
1226     12/6/21      Vacating drainage easement
1227     12/6/21      Authorizing the operation of work-site utility vehicles,
                      micro utility trucks and all terrain vehicles
1228     12/20/21     Building regulations, demolition or partial demolition of
                      buildings and moving structures
1229     12/20/21     Vicious dogs and dogs as a nuisance
1230     1/3/22       Planning commission terms and qualifications
1231     1/17/22      Vacating street and alley easements
1232     1/17/22      Hairdress/barber permitted uses
1233     2/22/22      Rezoning
1234     3/7/22       Construction of internal improvements
1235     5/20/22      Establishing a 911 Fund
1236     6/6/22       Operation of golf carts
1237     6/6/22       Establishing a VIN Fund
1238     7/5/22       Removal of certain unsafe and dangerous structures
1239     7/18/22      Special event retailers permit
1240     8/15/22      Establishing a Water Reserve Fund
1241     8/15/22      Establishing a Sewer Reserve Fund
1242     8/15/22      Adopting 2022 Standard Traffic Ordinance and 2022 Uniform
                      Public Offense Code
1243     9/19/22      Relating to planting, maintenance, and removal of trees
                      and shrubs
1244     10/3/22      Establishing the American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) Fund
1245     10/3/22      Establishing the Kansas Fights Addiction Fund
1246     10/3/22      Relating to flat fee building permits
1247     10/3/22      Requiring that a driver of a commercial vehicle must have
                      a commercial class driver’s license
1248     10/17/22     Changing zoning classification
1249     10/17/22     Granting a conditional use permit
1251     12/5/22      Amending purchase bidding threshold
1252     2/6/23       Amending bonds of officers
1253     2/21/23      Pertaining to the scheduling of regular Council meetings
1254     2/21/23      Relating to temporary businesses
1255     2/21/23      Levying special assessment taxes on certain real
                      properties
1256     4/17/23      Authorizing general obligation bonds, series 2023
1257     5/1/2023     Relating to the time of Planning Commission meetings
1258     8/21/2023    Regulating the ownership, impoundment, destruction, and
                      prosecution of dangerous dogs within the corporate limits
                      Determining court costs and other costs for the
                      administration of justice assessed in the municipal court
1259     11/6/23      of the City of Scott City, Kansas; amending current code
                      Section
                      1-9-5
                      Amending Title 8, Chapter 2, Section 8 of the
1260     12/4/23      codification of the ordinances of Scott City, Kansas
                      relating to water system rates
                      Amending Title eight, Chapter 1, Section 5 of the
1261     2/20/24      codification of the ordinances of Scott City, Kansas
                      relating to sewer system rates
1262     2/5/24       Establishing minimum standards for housing and premises
                      Regulating and restricting the height of structures and
1263     2/5/24       objects of natural growth, and otherwise regulating the
                      use of property, in the vicinity of the Scott City
                      Municipal Airport
1264     4/15/24      Authorizing the execution of an amendment to a loan
                      agreement between the city and the state of Kansas
1265     5/6/24       Changing zoning classification
1266     5/20/24      Establishing a capital improvement fund for the city
1267     8/19/24      Changing zoning classification
                      An ordinance regulating traffic within the corporate
                      limits of the City of Scott City, Kansas; Incorporating
                      By Reference The Standard Traffic Ordinance For Kansas
                      Cities, 51st Edition, with certain omissions, deletions,
1268     9/16/24      modifications, additions, and amendments; prescribing
                      additional regulations; providing certain penalties;
                      amending current code section
                      6-1-1; repealing current code section 6-1-1 and any parts
                      or portions of any ordinance enacting the same; all to
                      the codification of the City of Scott City.
                      An ordinance regulating public offenses within the
                      corporate limits of the City of Scott City, Kansas;
                      incorporating by Reference the Uniform Public Offense
                      Code for Kansas Cities, 40th Edition, with certain
                      omissions, deletions, modifications, additions, and
                      amendments; prescribing additional regulations; providing
                      certain penalties; regulating interference with public
                      swimming pool operations; regulating the storage, sale,
                      and discharge of fireworks; regulating the possession and
1269     9/16/24      discharge of certain fireworks; regulating appearances
                      before the Municipal Court of Scott City, Kansas;
                      regulating the compliance with conditions of release on
                      appearance bonds; amending current code sections
                      5-2-1 and 5-2-2; repealing current code sections
                      5-2-1 and 5-2-2, including any parts or portions of any
                      ordinance enacting the same; creating new code sections
                      5-5-3,
                      5-5-4, and
                      5-5-6; all to the codification of the City of Scott City.
                      An ordinance establishing a procedure for securing the
                      appearance of persons before the Municipal Court of the
                      City of Scott City, Kansas by use of certain appearance
                      bonds and conditions of release, by providing a procedure
1270     9/16/24      for revoking the same, and by providing a procedure
                      relating to appeals from said court; creating new code
                      sections
                      1-9-6,
                      1-9-7, and
                      1-9-8; all to the codification of the City of Scott City.
                      An ordinance amending Title 8 Chapter 2, Section 8 of the
1273     11/18/24     codification of the ordinances of Scott City, Kansas
                      relating to water system rates and repealing the existing
                      section.
                      An ordinance amending title three, chapter three, of the
1274     3-17-2025    codification of the ordinances of Scott City, Kansas
                      relating to temporary businesses and repealing the
                      existing sections.
                      An ordinance granting a conditional use permit of certain
1276     5-5-2025     land located within the three-mile extraterritorial zone
                      of the City of Scott City under the authority granted by
                      statute and the Scott City code.
                      An ordinance granting a conditional use permit of certain
1277     6-2-2025     land located within the three-mile extraterritorial zone
                      of the City of Scott City under the authority granted by
                      statute and the Scott City code.
                      An ordinance of the governing body of the City of Scott
                      City, Kansas regulating the sales, locations, conduct,
                      and employment restrictions related to the sale and
                      consumption of alcoholic liquor and cereal malt beverages
                      within the City of Scott City, Kansas, including, but not
                      limited to, prohibiting the times in which alcoholic
1278     6-16-2025    liquor and cereal malt beverages can be sold at retail in
                      the original package for consumption off premises on
                      sundays; amending current code sections
                      3-1A-6 and
                      3-1B-5; repealing current code sections
                      3-1A-6 and
                      3-1B-5; all to the codification of the City of Scott
                      City, Kansas.
                      An ordinance amending Title 5, Chapter 4, Article A,
1279     6-16-2025    Subsection 1 relating to the regulation of live-stock,
                      poultry and swine.
                      An ordinance of the governing body of the City of Scott
                      City, Kansas regulating the sales, locations, conduct,
                      and employment restrictions related to the sale and
                      consumption of alcoholic liquor and cereal malt beverages
                      within the City of Scott City, Kansas, including, but not
                      limited to, prohibiting the times in which alcoholic
                      liquor and cereal malt beverages can be sold at retail in
                      the original package for consumption off the premises on
1280     7-7-2025     Sundays and removing the prohibition against selling
                      alcoholic liquor in the original package for consumption
                      off the premises on Memorial Day, Independence Day, and
                      Labor Day; amending current code sections
                      3-1A-6 and
                      3-1B-5; repealing current code sections
                      3-1A-6 and
                      3-1B-5; all to the codification of the City of Scott
                      City, Kansas.
                     
 
