WAMEGO, KANSAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 1813, passed 12-17-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHAPTER I: ADMINISTRATION
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   GOVERNING BODY
      
3.   CITY MANAGER
      
4.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
5.   OATHS AND BONDS
      
6.   PERSONNEL AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
      
7.   OPEN RECORDS
      
8.   INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-101   Code designated
   
1-102   Definitions
   
1-103   Existing ordinances
   
1-104   Effect of repeal
   
1-105   Catchlines of sections
   
1-106   Parenthetical and reference matter
   
1-107   Amendments; repeal
   
1-108   Powers generally
   
1-109   Ordinances
   
1-110   Same; subject and title; amendment
   
1-111   Same; publication
   
1-112   Same; ordinance book
   
1-113   Resolutions, motions
   
1-114   City records
   
1-115   Altering code
   
1-116   Scope of application
   
1-117   General penalty
   
1-118   Severability
§ 1-101 CODE DESIGNATED.
   The chapters, articles and sections herein shall constitute and be
designated as “The Code of the City of Wamego, Kansas”, and may be so cited.
The code may also be cited as the “Wamego City Code”.
§ 1-102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Wamego, Kansas.
   CODE. The code of the City of Wamego, Kansas.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; and if the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
   COUNTY. The County of Pottawatomie in the State of Kansas.
   DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. Whenever a provision appears requiring or
authorizing the head of a department or officer of the city to do some act or
perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize such department head or
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required
act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate
otherwise.
   GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender include the feminine and
neuter.
   GOVERNING BODY. Construed to mean the Mayor and City Commissioners of the
city, or those persons appointed to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor or
the City Commissioners as provided in this code.
   IN THE CITY. Includes all territory over which the city now has, or shall
hereafter acquire jurisdiction for the exercise of its police powers or other
regulatory powers.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
persons or officers.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural and words used in the
plural include the singular.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the word SWEAR is equivalent
to the word AFFIRM.
   OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS AND THE LIKE. Officers, departments, boards,
commissions and employees referred to in this code shall mean officers,
departments, boards, commissions and employees of the city, unless the context
clearly indicates otherwise.
   OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include not only the owner of
the whole but any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or joint tenant of
the whole or a part of such building or land.
   PERSON. Includes a firm, partnership, association of persons, corporation,
organization or any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal and mixed property.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments, and all rights
thereto and interest therein, equitable as well as legal.
   SHALL, MAY. SHALL is mandatory and MAY is permissive.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE, SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write, when
his or her name is written near such mark and is witnessed by a person who
writes his or her own name as a witness.
   STATE. The State of Kansas.
   STREET. Includes public streets, avenues, boulevards, highways, roads,
alleys, lanes, viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto and all other
public thoroughfares in the city.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall include any person
holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of such
building or land, whether alone or with others.
   TENSES. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
   WRITING OR WRITTEN. May include printing, engraving, lithography and any
other mode of representing words and letters, except those cases where the
written signature or the mark of any person is required by law.
   YEAR. A calendar year, except where otherwise provided.
§ 1-103 EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are in substance the
same as those of ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this
code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
§ 1-104 EFFECT OF REPEAL.
   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive an ordinance previously
repealed, nor shall such repeal affect any right which has accrued, any duty
imposed, any penalty incurred or any proceeding commenced under or by virtue of
the ordinance repealed, except as shall be expressly stated therein.
§ 1-105 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the sections of this code printed in capital letters are
intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall
not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of any
section, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any
section, including its catchline, is amended or reenacted.
§ 1-106 PARENTHETICAL AND REFERENCE MATTER.
   The matter in parenthesis at the ends of sections is only for information
purposes and is not a part of the code. Citations indicate only the source and
the text may or may not be changed by this code. This code is a new enactment
under the provisions of K.S.A. 12-3014 and 12-3015. Reference matter not in
parenthesis is only for information purposes and is not a part of this code.
§ 1-107 AMENDMENTS; REPEAL.
   Any portion of this code may be amended by specific reference to the section
number as follows: “Section _____ of the code of the City of Wamego is hereby
amended to read as follows: (the new provisions shall then be set out in full).
. .” A new section not heretofore existing in the code may be added as follows:
“The code of the City of Wamego is hereby amended by adding a section (or
article or chapter) which reads as follows: . . . (the new provisions shall be
set out in full). . .” All sections, or articles, or chapters to be repealed
shall be repealed by specific reference as follows: “Section (or article or
chapter) __________ of the code of the City of Wamego is hereby repealed.”
§ 1-108 POWERS GENERALLY.
   All powers exercised by cities of the second class, or which shall hereafter
be conferred upon them, shall be exercised by the governing body, subject to
such limitations as prescribed by law.
§ 1-109 ORDINANCES.
   (a)   The governing body shall have the care, management and control of the
city and its finances, and shall pass all ordinances needed for the welfare of
the city.
   (b)   All ordinances shall be valid when a majority of all the members-elect
of the City Commission shall vote in favor.
   (c)   Where the number of favorable votes is one less than required, the
Mayor shall have power to cast the deciding vote in favor of the ordinance.
(K.S.A. 12-3002)
§ 1-110 SAME; SUBJECT AND TITLE; AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall contain more than one subject, which shall be clearly
expressed in its title; and no section or sections of an ordinance shall be
amended unless the amending ordinance contains the entire section or sections
as amended and the section or sections amended shall be repealed.
(K.S.A. 12-3004)
§ 1-111 SAME; PUBLICATION.
   (a)   No ordinance, except those appropriating money, shall be in force
until published in the official city newspaper by the City Clerk. One
publication of any such ordinance shall be sufficient unless additional
publications are required by statute or ordinance. The publisher of the
newspaper shall prefix such published ordinance by a line in brackets stating
the month, day and year of such publication.
   (b)   In lieu of subsection (a), the city may opt to publish a summary of an
ordinance so long as:
      (1)   The publication is identified as a “summary” and contains notice
that the complete text of the ordinance may be obtained or viewed free of
charge at the office of the City Clerk;
      (2)   The City Attorney certifies the summary of the ordinance prior to
publication to ensure that the summary is legally accurate and sufficient; and
      (3)   The publication contains the city's official website address where
a reproduction of the original ordinance is available for a minimum of one week
following the summary publication in the newspaper.
   (c)   If an ordinance is subject to petition pursuant to state law, then the
summary shall contain a statement that the ordinance is subject to petition.
(K.S.A. 12-3007)
§ 1-112 SAME; ORDINANCE BOOK.
   Following final passage and approval of each ordinance, the City Clerk shall
enter the same in the ordinance book of the city as provided by law. Each
ordinance shall have appended thereto the manner in which the ordinance was
passed, the date of passage, the page of the journal containing the record of
the final vote on its passage, the name of the newspaper in which published and
the date of publication.
(K.S.A. 12-3008)
§ 1-113 RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS.
   Except where a state statute or city ordinance specifically requires
otherwise, all resolutions and motions shall be passed if voted upon favorably
by a majority of a quorum of the City Commission.
§ 1-114 CITY RECORDS.
   The City Clerk or any other officer or employee having custody of city
records and documents shall maintain such records and documents in accordance
with K.S.A. 12-120 to 12-121 inclusive, which is incorporated by reference
herein as if set out in full and as provided in the State Open Records Act and
the city policy regarding open public records.
(K.S.A. 12-120 to 12-121)
§ 1-115 ALTERING CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or amend
by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby. This restriction shall not apply to amendments or revisions of this
code authorized by ordinance duly adopted by the governing body.
§ 1-116 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   Any person convicted of doing any of the acts or things prohibited, made
unlawful, or the failing to do any of the things commanded to be done, as
specified and set forth in this code, shall be deemed in violation of this code
and punished in accordance with §
1-117. Each day any violation of this code continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
§ 1-117 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever any offense is declared by any provision of this code, absent a
specific or unique punishment prescribed, the offender shall be punished in
accordance with this section:
   (a)   A fine of not more than $1,000;
   (b)   Imprisonment in jail for not more than 179 days; or
   (c)   Both such fine and imprisonment not to exceed divisions (a) and (b)
above.
§ 1-118 SEVERABILITY.
   If for any reason any chapter, article, section, division, sentence, clause
or phrase of this code or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance, is declared to be unconstitutional or invalid or unenforceable,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
code.
ARTICLE 2: GOVERNING BODY
Section
   
1-201   Governing body
   
1-202   Mayor
   
1-203   Acting Mayor
   
1-204   Same; meetings
   
1-205   Vacancies in governing body; how filled
   
1-206   Emergency government
   
1-207   Members not to interfere
   
1-208   Compensation
   
1-209   Expenses
   
1-210   Incorporating Code of Procedure for Kansas Cities
   
1-211   Code of Ethics
§ 1-201 GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body shall consist of five Commissioners to be elected as set
out in
Chapter VI of this code.
§ 1-202 MAYOR.
   The governing body shall choose its own Chairperson annually at its second
regular meeting held in April of each year, and the Chairperson shall have the
title of Mayor during the year of his or her office to that end that the city
shall have an official head on formal occasions.
§ 1-203 ACTING MAYOR.
    The governing body may choose a Vice Chairperson who, in the absence of the
Chairperson from any meeting of the governing body, shall exercise the duties
of the office of Mayor to the end that the city shall have an official head on
such occasions. In such cases the Vice Chairperson may use the title of Acting
Mayor.
§ 1-204 SAME; MEETINGS.
   (a)   Regular meetings of the governing body shall be held on the first and
third Tuesday of the month at 6:00 p.m. In the event the regular meeting day
shall be a legal holiday, the governing body shall meet on the next regular
working day at the same time and place.
   (b)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or Acting Mayor, on the
written request of a majority of the members of the Commission. The request
shall state the matters to be discussed at each special meeting and no other
matters may be considered at such meeting.
   (c)   Regular or special meetings shall be open to the public.
   (d)   A majority of the governing body present at any regular or special
meeting shall constitute a quorum for the purposes of conducting the city’s
business.
   (e)   The minimum number of governing body members required to be present at
any regular or special meeting in order to conduct city business shall be as
established under the Kansas Open Meeting requirements.
   (f)   Regular or special meetings may be adjourned by the governing body for
the purpose of finishing business begun at any meeting to a time certain to be
held at the same place from which the meeting was adjourned.
(K.S.A. 14-111) (Ord. 1526, passed 8-5-2008; Ord. 1570, passed 3-15-2011; Ord.
1612, passed 6-4-2013)
§ 1-205 VACANCIES IN GOVERNING BODY; HOW FILLED.
   In case of the disability or any vacancy occurring by death, resignation or
removal from office of from the city, the governing body shall, by a majority
vote of the remaining members within 30 days after the happening of such
vacancy, appoint some suitable person to fill the unexpired term.
(Charter Ord. 2016, passed 1-5-2016; Ord. 1740, passed 12-1-2020)
§ 1-206 EMERGENCY GOVERNMENT.
   In the event of catastrophe in which all or a majority of the members of the
governing body are fatally injured, the interim governing body shall consist of
any surviving member, the City Attorney and the City Clerk.
§ 1-207 MEMBERS NOT TO INTERFERE.
   No member of the City Commission shall directly interfere with the conduct
of any department, except at the express direction of the Commission at a
regularly convened meeting of the Board of Commissioners.
§ 1-208 COMPENSATION.
   Each Commissioner shall be paid for his or her services the sum of $100 per
year.
§ 1-209 EXPENSES.
   Each member of the governing body shall receive for his or her services and
as reimbursement for his or her expenses, compensation as follows:
   (a)   Mileage at the same rate as is established by law by the State of
Kansas for state employees for each mile traveled by the shortest route upon
the performance of duties assigned by the Mayor and/or Commission; and
   (b)   Reimbursement for actual food and lodging expenses upon the
performance of duties assigned by the Commission And/or Mayor, provided such
expenses shall be documented by proper receipts.
§ 1-210 INCORPORATING CODE OF PROCEDURE FOR KANSAS CITIES.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of establishing a
code of procedure for the conduct of City Commission meetings of the City of
Wamego, Kansas, that certain code known as the “Code of Procedure for Kansas
Cities”, Fourth Edition, prepared and published in book form by the League of
Kansas Municipalities, Topeka, Kansas, save and except such articles, sections,
parts or portions as are hereafter omitted, deleted, modified or changed. No
fewer than three copies of said Code of Procedure for Kansas Cities shall be
marked or stamped “Official Copy as Incorporated by the Code of the City of
Wamego, Kansas”, with all sections or portions thereof intended to be omitted
or changed clearly marked to show any such omission or change and to which
shall be attached a copy of this section, and filed with the City Clerk to be
open to inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours.
§ 1-211 CODE OF ETHICS.
   (a)   Declaration of policy. The proper operation of our government requires
that public officials and employees be independent, impartial and responsible
to the people; that governmental decisions and policy be made in the proper
channels; and that the public have confidence in the integrity of its
government. In recognition of those goals, there is hereby established a Code
of Ethics for all officials and employees, whether elected or appointed, paid
or unpaid. The purpose of this Code is to establish ethical standards by
setting forth those acts or actions that are incompatible with the best
interests of the city.
   (b)   Responsibilities of public office. Public officials and employees are
agents of public purpose and hold office for the benefit of the public. They
are bound to uphold the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of this state and to carry out impartially the laws of the nation, state and
city and thus to foster respect for all government. They are bound to observe
in their official acts the highest standards of morality and to discharge
faithfully the duties of their office regardless of personal considerations,
recognizing that the long-term public interest must be their primary concern.
Their conduct in both their official and private affairs should be above
reproach.
   (c)   Dedicated service.
      (1)   All officials and employees of the city should be responsive to the
political objectives expressed by the electorate and the programs developed to
attain those objectives. Appointive officials and employees should adhere to
the rule of work and performance established as the standard for their
positions by the appropriate authority.
      (2)   Officials and employees should not exceed their authority or breach
the law or ask others to do so, and they should work in full cooperation with
other public officials and employees unless prohibited from so doing by law or
by officially recognized confidentiality of their work.
   (d)   Fair and equal treatment.
      (1)   Interest in appointments. Canvassing of members of the City
Commission, directly or indirectly, in order to obtain preferential
consideration in connection with any appointment to the municipal service shall
disqualify the candidate for appointment except with reference to positions
filled by appointment by the City Commission.
      (2)   Use of public property. No official or employee shall request or
permit the use of city- owned vehicles, equipment, materials or property for
personal convenience or profit, except when such services are available to the
public generally or are provided as city policy for the use of such official or
employee in the conduct of official business.
      (3)   Obligations to citizens. No official or employee shall grant any
special consideration, treatment or advantage to any citizen beyond that which
is available to every other citizen.
   (e)   Conflict of interest.
      (1)   Financial or personal interests. No elected or appointive city
official or employee, whether paid or unpaid, shall engage in any business or
transaction or shall have a financial or other personal interest, direct or
indirect, which is incompatible with the proper discharge of his or her duties
in the public interest or would tend to impair his or her independence of
judgment or action in the performance of his or her official duties. Personal,
as distinguished from financial interests, includes an interest arising from
blood or marriage relationships or close business or political association.
      (2)   Specific conflicts of interests. Specific conflicts of interest are
enumerated below for the guidance of officials and employees.
         (A)   Incompatible employment. No elected or appointive city official
or employee shall engage in or accept private employment or render services for
private interests when such employment or service is incompatible with the
proper discharge of his or her official duties or would tend to impair his or
her independence of judgment or action in the performance of his or her
official duties.
         (B)   Disclosure of confidential information. No elected or appointive
city official or employee shall, without proper legal authorization, disclose
confidential information concerning the property, government or affairs of the
city. Nor shall he or she use such information to advance the financial or
other private interest of himself, herself or others.
      (3)   Gifts and favors. No elected or appointive city official or
employee shall accept any valuable gift, whether in the form of service, loan,
thing or promise, from any person, firm or corporation which to his or her
knowledge is interested directly or indirectly in any manner whatsoever in
business dealings with the city; nor shall any such official or employee accept
any gift, favor or thing of value that may tend to influence him or her in the
discharge of his or her duties or grant in the discharge of his or her duties
any improper favor, service or thing of value. The prohibition against gifts or
favors shall not apply to an occasional non-pecuniary gift, of only nominal
value, an award publicly presented in recognition of public service, or any
gift which would have been offered or given to him or her if not an official or
employee.
      (4)   Representing private interest before city agencies or courts. No
elected or appointive city official or employee whose salary is paid in whole
or in part by the city shall appear in behalf of private interest before any
agency of this city. He or she shall not represent private interests in any
action or proceeding against the interest of the city in any litigation to
which the city is a party.
ARTICLE 3: CITY MANAGER
Section
   
1-301   City Manager; appointment; qualifications
   
1-302   Same; salary, bond
   
1-303   Same; powers
   
1-304   Same; general duties
   
1-305   Same; countersigning warrants
   
1-306   Same; acting in other offices
§ 1-301 CITY MANAGER; APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (a)   The administration of the city’s business shall be in the hands of a
City Manager who shall be appointed by and hold office at the pleasure of the
governing body.
   (b)   The City Manager shall be chosen on the basis of experience,
communication skills and administrative ability. Choice shall not be limited by
any residence qualifications.
(K.S.A. 12-1011)
§ 1-302 SAME; SALARY, BOND.
   The City Manager shall receive a salary to be fixed by the governing body,
and shall give a surety bond for the faithful performance of his or her duties
in such amount as may be provided by ordinance.
(K.S.A. 12-1013)
§ 1-303 SAME; POWERS.
   The administration of the city’s business shall be in the hands of the City
Manager who shall have all the powers vested in such office by the laws of the
state, and shall have such further powers and duties as hereinafter provided.
(K.S.A. 12-1011)
§ 1-304 SAME; GENERAL DUTIES.
   The City Manager shall:
   (a)   Be responsible for all administrative affairs of the city and see that
the laws of Kansas and ordinances of the city are enforced;
   (b)   Appoint and remove all heads of departments and subordinate officers
and employees of the city. All such appointments shall be made upon merit and
fitness alone;
   (c)   Be responsible for the discipline of all appointive officers, and may
without notice cause the affairs of any department or the conduct of any
officer or employee to be examined or terminated;
   (d)   May require such reports from the administrative officers of the city
respecting their several offices as shall tend to improve the discharge of
their several duties and as shall enable him or her to discharge his or her
duties in the most efficient manner;
   (e)   Set salaries guided by the wage scale set by the governing body and
within the limitations of the budget adopted by the governing body of the city;
   (f)   Prepare and submit the annual budget to the governing body and also
keep the governing body fully advised as to the financial condition and needs
of the city;
   (g)   Make recommendations to the governing body on all matters concerning
the welfare of the city, and shall have a seat, but no vote, in all of the
public meetings of the governing body; and
   (h)   Perform such other and further duties as may be required by law or
ordinance.
(K.S.A. 12-1014)
§ 1-305 SAME; COUNTERSIGNING WARRANTS.
   Warrants and warrant checks shall be signed by the City Manager and by the
City Treasurer of the City of Wamego, Kansas, and the seal, if any, of the city
need not be attached or impressed or shown by facsimile. In the absence of the
City Manager, the Mayor is hereby authorized to sign warrants and warrant
checks in place of the City Manager. In the absence of the City Treasurer, the
City Clerk is hereby authorized to sign warrants and warrant checks in place of
the City Treasurer. A facsimile signature may be used as authorized by K.S.A.
Chapter 75, Article 40.
§ 1-306 SAME; ACTING IN OTHER OFFICES.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized to and may perform the duties of any
officer whose office he or her is qualified to fill and in such cases the
appointment or employment of such officer may be dispensed with. The Manager
may appoint one person to hold and perform the duties of more than one office;
provided, one person may not hold offices which are incompatible or when such
dual holding is prohibited by law. The City Manager shall appoint the
authorized and required number of employees as may be necessary for the
efficient operation and administration of the public affairs of such offices of
the city, and he or she may remove such employees at his or her pleasure. The
compensation for all such employees shall be fixed by ordinance and in
preparation of the annual city budget, the City Manager shall estimate the
number of employees to be required by the city during the year. Provisions
shall be made in the budget for the compensation of all such employees.
(K.S.A. 12-1024)
ARTICLE 4: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
1-401   City Clerk
   
1-402   Same; fiscal records
   
1-403   Same; seal; oaths
   
1-404   Same; withholding agents
   
1-405   City Treasurer
   
1-406   Department of Law
   
1-407   City Attorney
   
1-408   Municipal judge; duties
   
1-409   Department of Public Safety
   
1-410   Chief of Police
   
1-411   Fire Chief
   
1-412   Department of Public Service
   
1-413   City Engineer
   
1-414   Director of Operations
   
1-415   Utilities Division
   
1-416   Public Works Division
   
1-417   Inspection Division
   
1-418   Solid Waste Division
   
1-419   Department of Public Welfare
   
1-420   Additional departments
   
1-421   Public Building Commission
   
1-422   Conflict of interest
§ 1-401 CITY CLERK.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (a)   Be custodian of all city records, books, files, papers, documents and
other personal effects belonging to the city and not properly pertaining to any
other office;
   (b)   Carry on all official correspondence of the city;
   (c)   Attend and keep a record of the proceedings of all regular and special
meetings of the governing body;
   (d)   Enter every appointment of office and the date thereof in the journal;
   (e)   Enter or place each ordinance of the city in the ordinance books after
its passage; and
   (f)   Publish all ordinances, except those appropriating money, and such
resolutions, notices and proclamations as may be required by law or ordinance.
§ 1-402 SAME; FISCAL RECORDS.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (a)   Prepare and keep suitable fiscal records according to generally
accepted accounting principles;
   (b)   Assist in preparing the annual budget;
   (c)   Audit all claims against the city for goods or services rendered for
the consideration of the governing body. His or her accounts shall properly
show the amounts paid from any fund of the city and the cash balance existing
in each fund;
   (d)   Keep an accurate account of all bonds issued by the city; and
   (e)   Keep a record of all special assessments.
§ 1-403 SAME; SEAL; OATHS.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (a)   Have custody of the corporate seal of the city and shall affix the
same to the official copy of all ordinances, contracts and other documents
required to be authenticated;
   (b)   Have power to administer oaths for all purposes pertaining to the
business and affairs of the city; and
   (c)   Keep suitable files of all such oaths required to be deposited in his
or her office.
§ 1-404 SAME; WITHHOLDING AGENTS.
   The City Clerk is designated as the withholding agent of the city for the
purposes of the Federal Revenue (Income) Act, and shall perform the duties
required of withholding agents by said Act or any other Act requiring
withholding from the compensation of any city officer or employee. The Clerk
shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the governing body or
the state statutes.
§ 1-405 CITY TREASURER.
   The City Treasurer shall:
   (a)   Receive all monies belonging to the city and giving a receipt
therefor; provided, that for all money received from any other source than the
City Clerk, the City Treasurer shall give two receipts causing one to be filed
with the City Clerk;
   (b)   Keep a record of all money received and paid out in a ledger account
book provided by the governing body;
   (c)   Publish or cause to be published quarterly statements of the financial
records of the city in the manner and style provided by law;
   (d)   Pay out city funds only upon orders or warrants properly signed by the
Mayor and City Clerk;
   (e)   Cancel all orders and warrants as soon as paid filing them at the time
of making quarterly statements subject to the inspection of the governing body
in the office of the City Clerk;
   (f)   File with the City Clerk on the first day of each month a complete
report of the receipts and expenditures of the city during the preceding month,
showing the day, amounts received, deductions from and the balance in each
fund;
   (g)   Make a quarterly settlement with the governing body on the fifteenth
days of March, June, September and December of each year keeping the settlement
in a special book provided by the governing body which shall be endorsed by
each member of the governing body making such settlement, showing the names of
members approving or disapproving same; and
   (h)   Perform such other and further duties as may be provided by the
governing body.
(K.S.A. 10-803, 12-1608)
§ 1-406 DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
   The Department of Law is established to administer the legal affairs of the
city. The Department shall be under the supervision of the City Attorney. The
Department shall consist of the City Attorney and Municipal Judge.
§ 1-407 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (a)   There is hereby established the office of City Attorney. No person
shall be eligible for the office of City Attorney who is not an attorney at law
admitted to practice in the Supreme Court of the state. The City Attorney shall
be charged with the general direction and supervision of the legal affairs of
the city.
   (b)   The City Attorney shall:
      (1)   Attend meetings of the City Commission when so directed to attend
by the Commission;
      (2)   Advise the Mayor and City Commission and all officers of the city
upon such legal questions affecting the city and its offices as may be
submitted to him or her;
      (3)   When requested by the City Commission, give opinions in writing
upon any such questions;
      (4)   Draft such ordinances, contracts, leases, easements, conveyances
and other instruments in writing as may be submitted to him or her in the
regular transaction of affairs of the city;
      (5)   Approve all ordinances of the city as to form and legality;
      (6)   Attend Planning Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals meetings
when so directed by the Boards;
      (7)   Appear and prosecute all violations of city ordinances in Municipal
Court when his or her services shall be required; and
      (8)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the governing
body and the state statutes.
§ 1-408 MUNICIPAL JUDGE; DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Judge to preside at the sessions of
the Municipal Court and to exercise and perform the powers and duties imposed
by statute or by ordinances of the city upon Municipal Judges and the Municipal
Court.
§ 1-409 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   The Department of Public Safety is established to administer the affairs of
the city pertaining to police and fire protection and shall consist of the
Police Department and the Fire Department.
§ 1-410 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police, subject to direction of the City Manager, shall be in
charge of the Police Department which shall consist of the Chief of Police and
such number of police officers as the City Manager shall determine. The powers
and duties of the Chief of Police and police officers shall be those prescribed
by statute and by ordinances of the city.
§ 1-411 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief, subject to the direction of the City Manager, shall be in
charge of the Fire Department, which shall consist of the Fire Chief and such
number of volunteer firefighters as shall be deemed necessary by the City
Manager. The City Manager may also arrange for the services of such number of
firefighters as he or she deems necessary and may contract to pay them
reasonable compensation for their services but such contract must be reduced to
writing and approved by the governing body and must provide a maximum total
compensation to be paid to firefighters during any year. The Fire Chief and
firefighters shall have such powers and duties as are prescribed by statute and
by ordinances of the city.
§ 1-412 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE.
   The Department of Public Service is established to administer the affairs of
the city pertaining to electric production and distribution, sewage collection
and treatment system, water supply and distribution system, streets, alleys,
parks and parks and other public property, and to make such inspections under
the ordinances of the city as the City Manager shall direct.
§ 1-413 CITY ENGINEER.
   (a)   The City Engineer shall be a licensed professional engineer in the
state.
   (b)   He or she shall be responsible for:
      (1)   The design and specifications for all city streets, sewers, water
lines, public buildings and other public facilities;
      (2)   The inspection of all public works projects including streets,
sewers, water lines and other public facilities; and
      (3)   The general supervision of the maintenance and repair of all public
facilities.
§ 1-414 DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS.
   The Director of Public Operations shall be responsible for the efficiency
and quality of service and will direct and coordinate the operations at the
city’s Public Works, Water Production and Distribution, Electrical Production
and Distribution, Wastewater Collection and Processing, and Parks and Cemetery
Departments. The Director of Public Operations shall report directly to and be
responsible to the City Manager.
(Ord. 1246, passed - -)
§ 1-415 UTILITIES DIVISION.
   The Utilities Division shall consist of the Superintendents of Production
and the Superintendents of Distribution who shall have the duties prescribed by
law, and such assistants and employees as may be determined by the City
Manager.
§ 1-416 PUBLIC WORKS DIVISION.
   The Public Works Division shall consist of the Superintendent of Public
Works, who shall have the duties prescribed by law, and such assistants and
employees as may be determined by the City Manager.
§ 1-417 INSPECTION DIVISION.
   The Inspection Division shall consist of the building inspector, plumbing
inspector, electrical inspector, gas inspector and such other inspectors as may
be provided by law and whose duties fall within the range of public service.
They shall perform such duties as are required by law.
§ 1-418 SOLID WASTE DIVISION.
   The Solid Waste Division shall consist of city officers or employees of the
city, appointed by the City Manager, to handle the collection and treatment of
solid waste as a city function or to handle the licensing and regulation of
private solid waste collectors.
§ 1-419 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WELFARE.
   (a)   The Department of Public Welfare is established to administer the
affairs of the city pertaining to protection of the health of the inhabitants
of the city and to abatement of nuisances and unsanitary conditions within the
city.
   (b)   The Board of Health and Health Officer shall exercise the powers and
duties provide for them by the laws of the state and by ordinances of the city.
§ 1-420 ADDITIONAL DEPARTMENTS.
   The Commission may create and establish additional departments and offices
as may be necessary for the purpose of a more efficient administration and as
business may demand. When other departments and offices are created and
established, the officers in charge shall be appointed by and serve at the
pleasure of the City Manager, and the duties to be performed and compensations
shall be defined and fixed by ordinance.
§ 1-421 PUBLIC BUILDING COMMISSION.
   (a)   Creation. There is hereby created under the authority of K.S.A. 12-
1757 et seq., a municipal corporation to be known as the City of Wamego, Kansas
Public Building Commission (the “PBC”).
   (b)   Composition. The PBC shall be composed of five members. Each sitting
Commissioner shall be a member of the PBC for the duration of such
Commissioner’s term of office.
   (c)   Purpose, powers and functions. The PBC is created for the purposes of,
and shall have the powers and shall perform the functions set forth in K.S.A.
12-1757 et seq. The city, by ordinance or charter ordinance hereafter taking
effect, shall have the authority to further limit or expand the purposes,
powers and/or functions of the PBC.
   (d)   Support services. Unless otherwise approved by the governing body, the
City Manager and City Clerk shall provide administrative services to the PBC
and the city’s bond counsel and City Attorney shall provide legal services to
the PBC.
(Ord. 1437, passed 8-17-2004)
§ 1-422 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   All city officers and employees shall comply with the requirements of K.S.A.
75-4301a et seq., concerning governmental ethics and refrain from making or
participating in the making of a contract when prohibited by state law.
ARTICLE 5: OATHS AND BONDS
Section
   
1-501   Oath
   
1-502   Oaths filed
   
1-503   Bonds required
   
1-504   Same; premiums
   
1-505   Condition of bonds
   
1-506   Approval of bonds
§ 1-501 OATH.
   All officers and employees of the city, whether elected or appointed, either
under the laws of the state or ordinances of the city, shall before entering
upon the duties of their respective offices, take and subscribe an oath or
affirmation as follows.
   (a)   Oath. “I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will
support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State
of Kansas and faithfully discharge the duties of __________ (here enter name of
office or position). So help me God.”
   (b)   Affirmation. “I do solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and of the State of
Kansas and faithfully discharge the duties of ___________ (enter name of office
or position). This I do under the pains and penalties of perjury.”
(K.S.A. 54-104, 54-106, 75-4308)
§ 1-502 OATHS FILED.
   All officers and employees required to take and subscribe or sign an oath or
affirmation shall be supplied the forms for the purpose at the expense of the
city, and upon taking and subscribing or signing any such oath or affirmation,
the same shall be filed by the City Clerk.
§ 1-503 BONDS REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   The following city officers shall each, before entering upon the
duties of his or her office, give a good and sufficient corporate surety bond
to the city.
      (2)   The bond shall be in the following amount, to wit:
City Manager                        $10,000
City Clerk                          $10,000
City Treasurer                      $100,000
Judge of Municipal Court            $10,000
Clerk of Municipal Court            $10,000
Firefighter’s Relief Fund Treasure$10,000
Airport Treasurer                   $10,000
Hospital Treasurer                  $10,000 (as set out in §
                                    12-204)
Library Treasurer                   $10,000
Recreation Commission Treasurer     $10,000
 
   (b)   The governing body may provide for the coverage by blanket bond of
such officers and employees and in such amounts as the governing body may, by
resolution, designate.
(K.S.A. 12-1226; K.S.A. 14-1304; K.S.A. 78-111)
§ 1-504 SAME; PREMIUMS.
   All premiums on surety bonds shall be paid by the city.
(K.S.A. 78-111)
§ 1-505 CONDITION OF BONDS.
   Each of the bonds required in §
1-503 shall be conditioned for the faithful performance of duty and all acts
required by the laws of the state and of the city, and for the application and
payment over to the proper persons of all monies or property coming into the
hands of each such officer by virtue of his or her office.
§ 1-506 APPROVAL OF BONDS.
   All bonds given to the city shall be approved as to their form by the City
Attorney and as to surety and sufficiency by the governing body, unless
otherwise provided by the laws of the state.
ARTICLE 6: PERSONNEL AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Section
   
1-601   Personnel policies and regulations
§ 1-601 PERSONNEL POLICIES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)    There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference for the purpose
of establishing policies and regulations for the administration of the city's
personnel program that document entitled “Personnel Policies and Regulations”
as approved by the governing body on January 21, 1986. No fewer than three
copies of these policies and regulations shall be marked or stamped “Official
Copy as Incorporated by the Code of the City of Wamego”, and shall be filed
with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available at all reasonable
hours of business.
   (b)   A copy of the city's Personnel Policies and Regulations incorporated
by reference in division (a) shall be furnished by the city to each and every
city employee hired after the effective date of this code.
ARTICLE 7: OPEN RECORDS
Section
   
1-701   Policy
   
1-702   Record custodians
   
1-703   Local Freedom of Information Officers
   
1-704   Public request for access
   
1-705   Facilities for public inspection
   
1-706   Procedures for inspection
   
1-707   Appointment of official custodians
   
1-708   Appointment of Local Freedom of Information Officer
   
1-709   Designation of additional record custodians
   
1-710   Requests to be directed to custodians
   
1-711   Fee administration
   
1-712   Inspection fee
   
1-713   Copying fee
   
1-714   Prepayment of fees
   
1-715   Payment
§ 1-701 POLICY.
   (a)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that all public
records which are made, maintained or kept by or are in the possession of the
city, its officers and employees, shall be open for public inspection as
provided by, and subject to the restrictions imposed by, the State Open Records
Act.
   (b)   Any person, upon request, shall have access to such open public
records for the purpose of inspecting, abstracting or copying such records
while they are in the possession, custody and control of the appointed or
designated record custodian thereof, or his or her designated representative.
§ 1-702 RECORD CUSTODIANS.
   (a)   All city officers and employees appointed or designated as record
custodians under this article shall: protect public records from damage and
disorganization; prevent excessive disruption of the essential functions of the
city; provide assistance and information upon request; ensure efficient and
timely action and response to all applications for inspection of public
records; and shall carry out the procedures adopted by this city for inspecting
and copying open public records.
   (b)   The official custodian shall prominently display or distribute or
otherwise make available to the public a brochure in the form prescribed by the
Local Freedom of Information Officer that contains basic information about the
rights of a requester, the responsibilities of a public agency and the
procedures for inspecting or obtaining a copy of public records under the State
Open Records Act. The official custodian shall display or distribute or
otherwise make available to the public the brochure at one or more places in
the administrative offices of the city where it is available to members of the
public who request public information in person.
§ 1-703 LOCAL FREEDOM OF INFORMATION OFFICERS.
   The Local Freedom of Information Officer shall:
   (a)   Prepare and provide educational materials and information concerning
the State Open Records Act;
   (b)   Be available to assist the city and members of the general public to
resolve disputes relating the State Open Records Act;
   (c)   Respond to inquiries relating to the State Open Records Act; and
   (d)   Establish the requirements for the content, size, shape and other
physical characteristics of a brochure required to be displayed or distributed
or otherwise made available to the public under the State Open Records Act. In
establishing such requirements for the content of the brochure, the Local
Freedom of Information Officer shall include plainly written basic information
about the rights of a requester, the responsibilities of the city and the
procedures for inspecting and obtaining a copy of public records under the Act.
§ 1-704 PUBLIC REQUEST FOR ACCESS.
   All city offices keeping and maintaining open public records shall establish
office hours during which any person may make a request for access to an open
public record. Such hours shall be no fewer than the hours each business day
the office is regularly open to the public. For any city office not open Monday
through Friday, hours shall be established by the record custodian for each
such day at which time any person may request access to an open public record.
§ 1-705 FACILITIES FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   All city offices keeping and maintaining open public records shall provide
suitable facilities to be used by any person desiring to inspect and/or copy an
open public record. The office of the City Clerk, being the principal record-
keeper of the city, shall be used as the principal office for providing access
to and providing copies of open records to the maximum extent practicable.
Requesters of records shall be referred to the office of the City Clerk except
when the requested records are not in that office and are available in another
city office.
§ 1-706 PROCEDURES FOR INSPECTION.
   Any person requesting access to an open public record for purposes of
inspecting or copying such record, or obtaining a copy thereof, shall abide by
the procedures adopted by the governing body for record inspection and copying,
including those procedures established by record custodians as authorized by
the governing body. Such procedures shall be posted in each city office keeping
and maintaining open public records.
§ 1-707 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICIAL CUSTODIANS.
   The following city officers are hereby appointed as official custodians for
purposes of the State Open Records Act and are hereby charged with
responsibility for compliance with that Act with respect to the hereinafter
listed public records:
   (a)   City Clerk. All public records kept and maintained in the City Clerk’s
office and all other public records not provided for elsewhere in this section;
   (b)   City Treasurer. All public records not on file in the office of the
City Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Treasurer’s office;
   (c)   Chief of Police. All public records not on file in the office of the
City Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Police Department;
   (d)   Fire Chief. All public records not on file in the office of the City
Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Fire Department;
   (e)   City Attorney. All public records not on file in the office of the
City Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Attorney’s office; and
   (f)   Clerk of the Municipal Court. All public records not on file in the
office of the City Clerk and kept and maintained in the Municipal Court.
§ 1-708 APPOINTMENT OF LOCAL FREEDOM OF INFORMATION OFFICER.
   The City Clerk or other appointed official is hereby appointed as the Local
Freedom of Information Officer and charged with all of the duties as set forth
in §
1-703.
§ 1-709 DESIGNATION OF ADDITIONAL RECORD CUSTODIANS.
   (a)   Each of the official custodians appointed in §
1-707 is hereby authorized to designate any subordinate officers or employees
to serve as record custodian. Such record custodians shall have such duties and
powers as are set out in the State Open Records Act.
   (b)   Whenever an official custodian shall appoint another person as a
record custodian he or she shall notify the City Clerk of such designation and
the City Clerk shall maintain a register of all such designations.
§ 1-710 REQUESTS TO BE DIRECTED TO CUSTODIANS.
   (a)   All members of the public, in seeking access to, or copies of, a
public record in accordance with the provisions of the State Open Records Act,
shall address their requests to the custodian charged with responsibility for
the maintenance of the record sought to be inspected or copied.
   (b)   Whenever any city officer or employee appointed or designated as a
custodian under this article is presented with a request for access to, or copy
of, a public record which record the custodian does not have in his or her
possession and for which he or she has not been given responsibility to keep
and maintain, the custodian shall so advise the person requesting the record.
Further, the person making the request shall be informed as to which custodian
the request should be addressed to, if such is known by the custodian receiving
the request.
§ 1-711 FEE ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Clerk is hereby authorized to provide the Clerk’s office, and the
office of each record custodian, with sufficient cash to enable the making of
change for record fee purposes. Each custodian shall transmit all record fee
monies collected to the City Treasurer whenever the amount accumulated exceeds
$25, but not less than monthly (cash shall not be accepted). Each custodian
shall maintain duplicates of all records and copy request forms, completed as
to the amount of fee charged and collected, which amounts shall be periodically
audited by the Clerk-Finance Officer and Treasurer of the city.
§ 1-712 INSPECTION FEE.
   (a)   Where a request has been made for inspection of any open public record
which is readily available to the record custodian, there shall be no
inspection fee charged to the requester.
   (b)   In all cases not covered by division (a) above, a record inspection
fee shall be charged, at the rate of $0.25, per hour per employee engaged in
the record search. A minimum charge, of $0.25 shall be charged for each such
request.
§ 1-713 COPYING FEE.
   (a)   A fee of $0.25 per page shall be charged for photocopying public
records, such fee to cover the cost of labor, materials and equipment.
   (b)   For copying any public records which cannot be reproduced by the
city’s photocopying equipment, the requester shall be charged the actual cost
to the city, including staff time, in reproducing such records.
§ 1-714 PREPAYMENT OF FEES.
   (a)   A record custodian may demand prepayment of the fees established by
this article whenever he or she believes this to be in the best interest of the
city. The prepayment amount shall be an estimate of the inspection and/or
copying charges accrued in fulfilling the record request. Any overage or
underage in the prepayment shall be settled prior to inspection of the
requested record or delivery of the requested copies.
   (b)   Prepayment of inspection and/or copying fees shall be required
whenever, in the best estimate of the record custodian, such fees are estimated
to exceed $0.25.
   (c)   Where prepayment has been demanded by the record custodian, no record
shall be made available to the requester until such prepayment has been made.
§ 1-715 PAYMENT.
   All fees charged under this article shall be paid to the custodian of the
records inspected and/or copied unless the requester has established an
account, for purposes of billing and payment, with the city.
ARTICLE 8: INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS
Section
   
1-801   Purpose and goals
   
1-802   Investment of idle funds
   
1-803   Procedures and restrictions
   
1-804   Custody and safekeeping
   
1-805   Sale or transfer
   
1-806   Interest on time deposits
§ 1-801 PURPOSE AND GOALS.
   (a)   It is the purpose of this statement to set forth the public policies
of the city relating to the investment of public monies, and establish
procedural requirements as to investment management practice.
   (b)   The objective of the investment policy and program of the city shall
be as follows.
      (1)   The safeguarding of all public monies shall be of the highest
priority. Public money shall not be invested or managed in any matter which
would jeopardize the safety of the principal.
      (2)   Consistent with the requirement of safety, the objective of the
investment program shall be to aggressively manage and invest all public monies
to maximize net earnings, consistent with the public responsibility to secure
maximum, safe investment return possible from monies assigned to its
stewardship, to relieve demands on the property tax, and to otherwise reduce
the cost of public services.
§ 1-802 INVESTMENT OF IDLE FUNDS.
   Temporarily idle monies of the city, not currently needed, may in accordance
with the procedure hereinafter described be invested:
   (a)   In temporary notes or no-fund warrants issued by the city;
   (b)   In savings deposits, demand deposits, time deposit, open accounts,
certificates of deposit or time certificates of deposit with maturities of not
more than two years:
      (1)   In banks, savings and loan associations and savings banks which
have main or branch offices located in the city; or
      (2)   If no main or branch office of a bank, savings and loan association
or savings bank is located in the city, then in banks, savings and loan
associations and savings banks, which have main or branch offices in the county
or counties in which all or part of the city is located.
   (c)   In repurchase agreements with:
      (1)   Banks, savings and loan associations and savings banks, which have
main or branch offices located in the city, for direct obligations of, or
obligations that are insured as to principal and interest by, the United States
government or any agency thereof;
      (2)   If no main or branch office of a bank, savings and loan association
or savings bank, is located in the city: if no such bank, savings and loan
association or savings bank having a main or branch office located in the city
is willing to enter into such an agreement with the city at an interest rate
equal to or greater than the investment rate, as defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g),
and amendments thereto, then such repurchase agreements may be entered into
with banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks which have main or
branch offices in the county or counties in which all or part of the city is
located; or
      (3)   If no bank, savings and loan association or savings bank having a
main or branch office in such county or counties is willing to enter into such
an agreement with the city at an interest rate equal to or greater than the
investment rate, as defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto, then
such repurchase agreements may be entered into with banks, savings and loan
associations or savings banks located within the state.
   (d)   In direct obligations of or obligations that are insured as to
principal and interest by the United States or any agency thereof, not
including mortgage-backed securities with maturities as the governing body
shall determine, but not exceeding two years. Such investment transactions
shall only be conducted with banks, savings and loan associations and savings
banks; the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, Missouri; or with primary
government securities dealers which report to the market report division of the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or any broker-dealer engaged in the business
of selling government securities which is registered in compliance with the
requirements of §§ 15 or 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
registered pursuant to K.S.A. 17-12a401, and amendments thereto;
   (e)   In the Municipal Investment Pool Fund established in K.S.A. 12-1677a,
and amendments thereto;
   (f)   In the investments authorized and in accordance with the conditions
prescribed in K.S.A. 12-1677b, and amendments thereto;
   (g)   In multiple municipal client investment pools managed by the trust
departments of banks which have main or branch offices located in county or
counties where city is located or with trust companies incorporated under the
laws of this state which have contracted to provide trust services under the
provisions of K.S.A. 9-2107, and amendments thereto, with banks which have main
or branch offices located in the county or counties in which the city is
located. Public monies invested under this division (g) shall be secured in the
same manner as provided for under K.S.A. 9-1402, and amendments thereto. Pooled
investments of public monies made by trust departments under this division (g)
shall be subject to the same terms, conditions and limitations as are
applicable to the municipal investment pool established by K.S.A. 12-1677a, and
amendments thereto;
   (h)   The investments authorized in divisions (d), (e), (f) or (g) above
shall be utilized only if the banks, savings and loan associations and savings
banks eligible for investments authorized in division (b) above, cannot or will
not make the investments authorized in division (b) above available to the city
at interest rates equal to or greater than the investment rate, as defined in
K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto; or
   (i)   In selecting a depository pursuant to division (b) above, if a bank,
savings and loan association or savings bank eligible for an investment deposit
thereunder has an office located in the city and such financial institution
will make such deposits available to the city at interest rates equal to or
greater than the investment rate, as defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and
amendments thereto, and such financial institution otherwise qualifies for such
deposit, the governing body shall select one or more of such eligible financial
institutions for deposit of funds pursuant to this section. If no such
financial institution qualifies for such deposits, the city shall select for
such deposits one or more eligible banks, savings and loan associations or
savings banks which have offices in the county or counties in which all or a
part of the city is located which will make such deposits available to the city
at interest rates equal to or greater than the investment rate, as defined in
K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto, and which otherwise qualify for
such deposits.
(K.S.A. 12-1675)
§ 1-803 PROCEDURES AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The City Clerk shall periodically report to the governing body as to the
amount of money available for investment and the period of time such amounts
will be available for investment, and shall submit such recommendations as
deemed necessary for the efficient and safe management of city finances. The
recommendations of the City Clerk shall provide for an investment program which
shall so limit the amounts invested and shall schedule the maturities of
investments so that the city will, at all times, have sufficient monies
available on demand deposit to assure prompt payment of all city obligations.
§ 1-804 CUSTODY AND SAFEKEEPING.
   Securities purchased pursuant to this article shall be under the care of the
City Manager, City Treasurer and City Clerk and shall be held in the custody of
a state or national bank or trust company, or shall be kept by such officers in
a safety deposit box of the city in a bank or trust company. Securities in the
original or receipt form held in the custody of a bank or trust company shall
be held in the name of the city, and their redemption, transfer or withdrawal
shall be permitted only upon the written instruction of the city officers.
Securities not held in the custody of a bank or trust company shall be
personally deposited by such officer in a safety deposit box in the name of the
city in a bank or trust company, access to which shall be permitted only in the
personal presence and under the signature of two of the abovementioned
officers.
§ 1-805 SALE OR TRANSFER.
   If, in order to maintain sufficient monies on demand deposit in any fund as
provided in §
1-803, it becomes necessary to transfer or sell any securities of such funds,
the officers specified in §
1-804 may transfer said securities to any other fund or funds in which there
are temporarily idle monies, or shall sell such securities, and for such
purpose they shall have authority to make any necessary written direction,
endorsement or assignment for and on behalf of the city.
§ 1-806 INTEREST ON TIME DEPOSITS.
   The City Clerk shall deposit the interest earned on invested idle funds to
the original fund, unless otherwise required or authorized by law.
CHAPTER II: ANIMAL CONTROL AND REGULATION
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   DOGS
      
3.   OTHER ANIMALS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
2-101   Definitions
   
2-102   Animal Control Officer; duty to impound; citation alternative
   
2-103   Same; capture/destruction
   
2-104   Same; right of entry; unlawful interference
   
2-105   Municipal pound established
   
2-106   Breaking pound
   
2-107   Cruelty to animals
   
2-108   Same; exceptions
   
2-109   Keeping animals
   
2-110   Animal traps
   
2-111   Nuisance; animal activities prohibited
   
2-112   Noisy animals
   
2-113   Animal confines; shelters
   
2-113A   Same; stockyards; commercial holding pens
   
2-114   Death of animals
   
2-115   Vicious animals
   
2-116   Running at large
   
2-117   Impoundment; fee; notice; record
   
2-118   Redemption of impounded animals
   
2-119   Impoundment of rabies suspects
   
2-120   Animals bitten by rabid animals
   
2-121   Swine and chickens
   
2-122   Vehicular accidents involving animals
   
2-123   Emergency; proclamation
§ 2-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. Includes the leaving of an animal by its owner or other person
responsible for its care or custody without making effective provisions for its
proper care over a 48-hour-period.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The facility or facilities operated by the city or its
authorized agents for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals under the
authority of this chapter or state law.
   ANIMALS. All vertebrate and invertebrate animals, such as, but not limited
to, bovine cattle, horses and other equines, hogs, goats, dogs, cats, rabbits,
sheep, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, pigeons and other fowl or wild animals,
reptiles, fish, bees or birds that have been tamed, domesticated or captivated.
   AT LARGE. To be outside of a fence or other enclosure that restrains the
animals to a particular premises or not under the control, by leash or lead, of
the owner or other authorized person capable of restraining the animal. Animals
tethered to a stationary object within range of public thoroughfares are deemed
to be AT LARGE.
   BITE. Any actual or suspected abrasion, scratch, puncture, tear, bruise or
piercing of the skin, caused by any animal, which is actually or suspected of
being contaminated or inoculated with the saliva from the animal, directly or
indirectly, regardless of the health of the animal causing such bite.
   CAT. Any member of the species felis catus, regardless of sex.
   DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal deemed to be dangerous or vicious
per §
2-115.
   DOG. Any member of the species canis familiaris, regardless of sex.
   FOWL. All animals that are included in the zoological class aves, which
shall include, but not limited to, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, guineas and
pigeons.
   HARBOR. Any person who shall allow any animal to habitually remain or lodge
or to be fed within his or her home, store, yard, enclosure or place of
business or any other premises where he or she resides or controls.
   HUMANE LIVE ANIMAL TRAP. Any cage trap that upon activation encloses an
animal without placing any physical restraint upon any part of the body of such
animal.
   HUMANELY EUTHANIZE. The proper injection of a substance that quickly and
painlessly terminates the life of an animal, or any other method approved by
the American Veterinary Medical Association or the American Humane Society.
   IMMEDIATE CONTROL. The regulation and supervision by a competent person so
that an animal is unable to run or get loose at will.
   LIVESTOCK. Includes, but is not limited to cattle, horses, goats, sheep or
other animals commonly regarded or used as farm or ranch animals.
   NEUTERED. Any male or female cat or dog that has been permanently rendered
sterile.
   OWN. Includes own, keep, harbor, shelter, manage, possess or have a part
interest in any animal. If a minor OWNS any such animal subject to the
provisions of this chapter, the head of the household of which such minor is a
member shall be deemed to OWN such animal for the purposes of this chapter.
   OWNER. The one who owns, or his or her employee, agent or other competent
person into whose charge an animal has been placed by the actual owner as
described in the definition for “own” above.
   VACCINATION. An injection of a vaccine, approved by the State Board of
Public Health, and administered by a licensed veterinarian for the purpose of
immunizing an animal against rabies.
   VETERINARIAN. A doctor of veterinary medicine licensed by the State of
Kansas.
§ 2-102 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER; DUTY TO IMPOUND; CITATION ALTERNATIVE.
   (a)   (1)   There is hereby created the position of Animal Control Officer
for the city and such officer shall be charged with the enforcement of this
chapter. Any person employed by the city as an Animal Control Officer and
commissioned by the Chief of Police of the city shall have such powers and
authority as allowed by law in the enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   All Animal Control Officers shall be subject to the supervision and
direction of the Chief of Police of the city.
   (b)   Except as provided in division (c) below, it shall be the duty of the
Animal Control Officer to take up and impound all animals found in the city in
violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (c)   As an alternative to the provisions of division (b) above, any law
enforcement officer or the Animal Control Officer may issue a citation to the
owner, harborer or keeper of an animal in violation of this chapter, and the
person receiving the citation shall, within ten days, appear in the Municipal
Court of the city to answer the charged violation of this chapter.
§ 2-103 SAME; CAPTURE/DESTRUCTION.
   When deemed necessary by law enforcement officers or the Animal Control
Officer for the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city, such
officers and/or their agents may:
   (a)   Place a humane trap on public or a requesting resident’s property for
the purpose of capturing any animal defined in this chapter as creating a
nuisance in the city;
   (b)   Use any tranquilizer guns, humane traps or other suitable devices to
subdue and capture any animal that is deemed by the Animal Control Officer, in
his or her discretion, to be of a danger to itself or to the public health and
safety; or
   (c)   Use firearms or other suitable weapons to destroy any rabid animal,
any vicious animal as defined in §
2-115 or any animal creating a nuisance as defined in §
2-111, where such animal is impossible or impractical to catch, capture or
tranquilize.
§ 2-104 SAME; RIGHT OF ENTRY; UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE.
   The Animal Control Officer or any law enforcement officer shall have the
right of entry upon any private unenclosed lots or lands for the purpose of
collecting any animal whose presence thereupon is a violation of this chapter,
to the extent allowed by law. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere
with the Animal Control Officer in the exercise of his or her duties.
§ 2-105 MUNICIPAL POUND ESTABLISHED.
   (a)   A municipal pound shall be established to carry out the provisions of
this chapter. Such a pound may be operated by a contractor and all services
required herein may be provided by a contractor.
   (b)   When so contracted, the pound shall have the following services and
facilities as a minimum:
      (1)   Adequate pickup and impounding of all stray and ownerless dogs and
cats and animals otherwise in violation of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Group holding facilities for stray, ownerless and unvaccinated
animals impounded for violation of the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   Individual isolation facilities for sick, biting, rabid and
suspected rabid animals; and
      (4)   Facilities for the humane destruction of animals.
§ 2-106 BREAKING POUND.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to open, unlock,
break open or attempt to break open the pound, or to take or let out any animal
placed therein, or take or attempt to take from an authorized officer of this
city any animal taken up by him or her under the provisions of this chapter, or
in any manner interfere with or hinder any authorized officer or employee of
this city in catching, taking up or impounding any animal.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, other than those duly
authorized, to care for, feed, attempt to feed or interfere in any way with the
care of impounded animals.
   (c)   Violation of this section shall be considered a Class C misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1531, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 2-107 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Willfully or maliciously kill, maim, disfigure, torture; beat with
a stick, chain, club or other object; mutilate, poison, burn or scald with any
substance; or otherwise cruelly set upon any animals, except that reasonable
force may be employed to drive off vicious animals;
      (2)   Drive or work any animal cruelly or cruelly work any maimed,
mutilated, infirm, sick or disabled animal, or cause, allow or permit the same
to be done;
      (3)   Have, keep or harbor any animal which is infected with any
dangerous or incurable and/or painfully crippling condition except as hereafter
provided. The Municipal Court Judge may order a person convicted of violation
under this division (a)(3) to turn the animal involved over to a designated
humane society. All such animals taken by the designated agency may be
destroyed humanely as soon thereafter as is conveniently possible. This section
shall not be construed to include veterinary hospitals or animals under active
veterinary care;
      (4)   Sell or offer for sale, barter, give away, or use as an advertising
device or promotional display, living baby chicks, rabbits, ducklings or other
fowl under two months of age in any quantity less than 12; or to sell, offer
for sale, barter, give away, or display animals or fowls as specified in this
section which have been dyed, colored or otherwise treated so as to impart to
them an artificial or unnatural color. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the sale of animals or fowls as specified in this division (a)(4), in
proper facilities, by hatcheries or persons engaged in raising and selling such
animals and fowls for recognized animal husbandry purposes;
      (5)   Promote, stage, hold, manage, or in any way conduct any game,
exhibition, contest or fight in which one or more animals are engaged for the
purpose of injuring, killing, maiming or destroying themselves or any other
animal;
      (6)   Neglect or refuse to supply such animal with necessary and adequate
care, food, drink, air, light, space, shelter or protection from the elements
as necessary for health and well-being of such kind of animal;
      (7)   Abandon or leave any animal in any place without making provisions
for its proper care; and
      (8)   These provisions shall not apply to the exceptions sanctioned under
§
2-108.
   (b)   (1)   In addition to the penalties provided in §
1-117 of this code, the Municipal Court Judge may order a person convicted of
violation under this section to turn the animal involved over to a designated
humane society.
      (2)   All such animals taken by the designated agency may be placed with
another or more suitable person or destroyed humanely as soon thereafter as is
conveniently possible.
   (c)   Violation of this section shall be considered a Class A misdemeanor,
and the judge shall have the authority to remove the subject animal(s)
temporarily or permanently.
(Ord. 1531, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 2-108 SAME; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of §
2-107 shall not apply to:
   (a)   Normal or accepted veterinary or veterinary hospital practices or
treatment of animals under active veterinary care;
   (b)   Bona fide experiments carried on by commonly recognized research
facilities;
   (c)   Killing, attempting to kill, trapping, catching or taking of any
animal in accordance with the provisions of K.S.A. Chapter 32 or K.S.A. Chapter
47;
   (d)   Rodeo practices accepted by the rodeo cowboys’ association;
   (e)   The humane killing of an animal which is diseased or disabled beyond
recovery for any useful purpose, or the humane killing of animals for
population control, by the owner thereof or by an authorized agent such as a
licensed veterinarian, at the request of the owner;
   (f)   The humane killing of an animal by the Animal Control Officer, a
Public Health Officer or a law enforcement officer in the performance of his or
her official duty; and
   (g)   The humane killing of an unclaimed animal after three full business
days following the receipt of such animal at a municipal pound or an
incorporated humane society shelter by the owner, operator or authorized agents
of such establishments.
§ 2-109 KEEPING ANIMALS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee, occupant or person in
charge of any premises in the city to possess and maintain any undomesticated
animal or possess and maintain any horses, mules, cattle, sheep, goats, swine
or chickens.
   (b)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the maintaining of a
stockyard or sales barn for the loading, unloading, temporary detention and
sale of such livestock, or the maintaining of said animals in proper facilities
by hatcheries or persons engaged in raising the same for recognized animal
husbandry purposes if the location of such facility does not otherwise violate
the zoning laws of the city.
   (c)   The provisions of this article shall not apply to possessing and
maintaining of horses, mules, cattle, sheep or goats on a pasture or other
enclosure having an area of five or more acres where permitted by the zoning
laws of the city, and where the number of such livestock does not exceed the
number of acres in such pasture or enclosure.
(Ord. 1286, passed 6-16-1998)
§ 2-110 ANIMAL TRAPS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, place, set out or deploy any
animal trap aboveground, which makes use of a spring gun, spring jaws, clamping
devices, cutting or stabbing mechanism, or any other devices that will damage
or severely injure any animal when caught or trapped by the device or trap;
except that nothing herein contained shall prohibit the use of animal traps
that are so designed to trap and hold animals without injuring the animals.
§ 2-111 NUISANCE; ANIMAL ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   The owner of any animal shall take all reasonable measures to keep
such animal from becoming a nuisance. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
animal to keep or maintain such animal in the city so as to constitute a
nuisance.
   (b)   For the purpose of this section, NUISANCE is defined as any animal
which:
      (1)   Molests or interferes with persons in the public right-of-way;
      (2)   Attacks or injures persons or other domestic animals;
      (3)   Damages public or private property by its activities or leaves
excrement upon the same;
      (4)   Scatters refuse that is bagged or otherwise contained; or
      (5)   Causes any condition that threatens or endangers the health or
well-being of persons or other animals.
      (6)   Violation of this section shall be considered a Class C
misdemeanor.
   (c)   If a summons is issued charging violation of this provision, a
subpoena shall also be issued to the complainant to testify to the nuisance
under oath.
(Ord. 1531, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 2-112 NOISY ANIMALS.
   (a)   The keeping, or harboring of any animal which by loud, frequent and
habitual barking, howling, yelping, mewing, roaring or screeching shall disturb
the peace of any neighborhood is hereby prohibited and declared to be a public
nuisance and unlawful under this chapter. It shall be the duty of any person
harboring or keeping such loud or noisy animal or animals to abate the
nuisance, and if he or she fails to do so, the city may abate the nuisance, by
taking up, impounding and/or disposing of the animal at the expense of the
owner.
   (b)   Such violation shall be considered a Class C misdemeanor, and the
judge may, in addition, prescribe a penalty in accordance therewith.
(Ord. 1531, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 2-113 ANIMAL CONFINES; SHELTERS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any animal in
any yard, structure or area that is not clean, dry and sanitary, free from
debris and offensive odors that annoy any neighbor, and devoid of rodents and
vermin.
   (b)   Excrement shall be removed at least once each week from any animal
shelter, pen or yard area where animals are kept, or more often if necessary to
prevent or control odors, fly breeding or rodent infestation. If excrement is
stored on the premises by any animal owner, it shall be stored in adequate
containers with fly-tight lids, and all such stored or accumulated wastes shall
be disposed of at least once each week.
   (c)   All animal shelters, pens and yards shall be so located that adequate
drainage is obtained, normal drying occurs, and standing water is not present.
   (d)   All animal shelters and board fences confining animals shall be
maintained in good repair, and all animal shelters and board fences confining
animals subject to residential and commercial classification shall be protected
from deterioration by painting or comparable treatment.
   (e)   Barbed wire fences and electrically charged fences shall not be
permitted for animal confines except on properties in which an agricultural
classification permit is held or where the barbed wire fence or electrically
charged fence is protected by an exterior fence.
   (f)   All premises in which animals are kept shall be subject to inspection
by the Animal Control Officer, duly authorized law enforcement officer or
Public Health Official. If the Officer or Official determines from such
inspection that the premises are not being maintained in a clean and sanitary
manner, he or she shall notify the owner of the animals in writing to correct
the sanitation deficiencies within 24 hours after notice is served on the
owner. Any animal kept under any condition that could endanger the public or
animal health or create a health nuisance may be impounded. Animals shall be
released after fees are paid and cause for impoundment has been corrected.
   (g)   Violation of this section may result in abatement by the city. If fees
are not paid and/or such conditions are not improved, the Judge may order that
the subject animal(s) be permanently removed.
(Ord. 1531, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 2-113A SAME; STOCKYARDS; COMMERCIAL HOLDING PENS.
   Animal shelters owned or operated as a stockyard or commercial holding pen
shall be adequately maintained and cleaned as often as is necessary, as
determined by the Health Officer, to control fly breeding or to control other
conditions adversely affecting the public health including the following:
   (a)   Collected fecal material and other solid organic waste shall be
disposed of at a sanitary landfill, fertilizer processing plant or by proper
dispersal on land used for agricultural purposes;
   (b)   Grain or protein feed shall be stored in tightly covered rodent-proof
metal containers or rodent-proof bins;
   (c)   Premises subject to the terms of this section shall be maintained free
of rodent harborage and in accordance with Ch. VIII of this code;
   (d)   Wherever reasonable, use shall be made of anti-coagulant rodenticides
for the control of rodents and organo-phosphorus insecticides for the control
of flies or any other effective chemical means for the control of rodents and
flies;
   (e)   Wherever reasonable, use shall be made of soil sterilants and
herbicides or other effective means for the control of weeds and grass around
structures and buildings;
   (f)   Enclosures including fences where animals such as horses, cows, sheep
and goats are maintained shall be constructed in a manner, using dimension
lumber materials, or other effective means to prevent such animals from
breaking out or causing hazard to persons or property;
   (g)   The solid wastes accumulated from the cleaning of animal shelters and
holding pens maintained by persons subject to a residential classification
permit as herein provided shall be stored in metal containers, with tight-
fitting metal lids, and all such stored or accumulated wastes shall be disposed
of at least once each week;
   (h)   Holding lots, pens and floors of sheds and buildings where animals are
held and which are maintained by persons subject to a commercial, industrial or
agricultural classification permit according to the terms of this chapter shall
be surfaced with concrete or asphaltic materials and that the drainage system
of such surfaced areas shall include proper retaining walls and traps to
control the waste from draining into watercourses and such drainage system
shall be subject to the approval of the Health Officer. The Health Officer
shall waive this standard for domestic animal holding operations where such
animal holding is longer than 24 hours for any domestic animal involved or
where dirt lots are more appropriate to the proper care of cattle, horses or
sheep; and
   (i)   Solid wastes accumulated from the cleaning of animal shelters and
holding pens maintained by persons subject to a commercial, industrial or
agricultural permit according to the terms of this chapter shall be stored on
concrete slabs or other facilities, such as dirt lots on which is stockpiled
manure with an exposed perimeter as approved by the Health Officer; provided,
that all solid waste shall be properly disposed of at least once each week or
as may be approved by the Health Officer.
§ 2-114 DEATH OF ANIMALS.
   All dead animals shall be disposed of by the owner or keepers within 24
hours of the animal’s death, by burial, incineration in a facility approved by
the Animal Control Officer, by rendering or by other lawful means approved by
the Animal Control Officer. No dead animal shall be dumped on any public or
private property. In addition, the city is authorized to dispose of dead
animals, at the discretion of the Animal Control Officer.
(Ord. 1531, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 2-115 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor a dangerous or
vicious animal within the corporate limits of the city. If the animal is found
to be a dangerous or vicious animal by the Municipal Court of Wamego or the
District Court of Pottawatomie County, Kansas, the person harboring such animal
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and the Court may order said animal
destroyed, removed from the owner permanently or temporarily, or confined by
the owner in a manner and location approved by the Municipal Court.
   (b)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the Animal
Control Officer or any law enforcement officer from taking whatever action is
reasonably necessary to protect himself or herself or members of the public
from injury or danger, including immediate destruction of any vicious animal
without notice to the owner.
   (c)   If a complaint has been filed in the Municipal Court against the owner
of an impounded animal for a charge under this section, the animal shall not be
released except on the order of the Municipal Judge or District Judge, who may
also direct the owner to pay all impounding fees in addition to any penalties
for violation of this chapter. When any animal remains unclaimed for 72 hours
after its release has been authorized by the Municipal Judge or District Court
Judge, the Judge may, upon making a finding that such animal is vicious or that
it represents a clear and present danger to the citizens or to other animals in
the community, order the animal to be destroyed in a humane manner. Surrender
of an animal by the owner thereof to the Animal Control Officer or other law
enforcement does not relieve or render the owner immune from the decision of
the court, nor to the fees and fines which may result from a violation of this
section.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog for
the purpose of dog fighting or to train, torment, badger, bait or use any dog
for the purpose of dog fighting or for the purpose of causing or encouraging
the dog to enter into unprovoked attacks upon human beings or domestic animals.
Persons violating this section shall be found guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (e)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor, own or in any way
possess within the city limits, any coyote, wolverine or wolf, or any breed of
dog which is in any part a mixture of dog and coyote, or dog and wolverine, or
dog and wolf. Persons violating this section shall be found guilty of a Class A
misdemeanor and the Court may order said animal destroyed or removed from the
owner permanently or temporarily.
(Ord. 1531, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 2-116 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully allow any animal under his
or her control to run at large within the city at any time. The city shall
follow the same procedures for animals running at large under this section as
are set forth under §
2-206 for dogs running at large. The owner of any animal so impounded shall be
subject to the same fine for allowing the animal to run at large as is
prescribed for dogs under §
2-207 and shall be subject to the same impoundment and board fees as are set
forth under §
2-207 relative to dogs running at large.
(Ord. 1286, passed 6-16-1998)
§ 2-117 IMPOUNDMENT; FEE; NOTICE; RECORD.
   (a)   The Animal Control Officer or law enforcement officer shall impound
any animal or fowl found at large in the city or constituting a nuisance or
otherwise in violation of this chapter in a suitable pound or enclosure
provided or contracted for by the city. The impounding officer shall make
diligent inquiry as to the owner of the animal and shall notify the owner
thereof of such impoundment as soon as reasonably possible.
   (b)   The city shall be entitled to receive from such owner an impoundment
fee, as set by the governing body, plus the actual cost of feeding and
maintaining the animal while impounded.
   (c)   In case the identity of the owner of the impounded animal or fowl
cannot be ascertained, the Animal Control Officer or police officer shall, upon
taking any such animal into custody and impounding the same, make a record
thereof, with a description of the animal and the date and place taken into
custody and the place of impounding, and shall thereupon immediately post a
public notice stating that the animal, describing the same with the date and
place of taking, has been taken up, and that unless the charges of impounding
the same, together with any license fees due and unpaid, are paid within three
business days from the date of the notice, that the animal will be disposed of
as provided in this code.
   (d)   The Animal Control Officer shall each month submit a report to the
person designated by the city showing the number of animals impounded and
disposed of, and the fees collected pursuant to this article and shall pay
those fees to the City Clerk for credit to the General Operating Fund.
§ 2-118 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   At any time before the sale or destruction of any animal impounded under the
provisions of this article, except for animals impounded under §§
2-115 (vicious) and
2-119 (rabid), the owner thereof may redeem the animal by paying the Animal
Control Officer or any person in charge, the impounding fee and all costs
incurred as a result of such impoundment.
§ 2-119 IMPOUNDMENT OF RABIES SUSPECTS.
   (a)   Any law enforcement officer or local Health Officer may take up, upon
private or public property, any animal that has bitten or scratched a person or
other animal and impound the animal in the city pound, securely penned and
separated from other animals, or in a veterinary hospital or animal care
facility for a period of not more than 30 days during which time the local
Health Officer shall determine whether or not such animal is suffering from a
disease and, if not, the local Health Officer shall authorize the release of
the animal upon payment by the owner of the boarding fee therefor. The Health
Officer may authorize the keeping of any such animal on the owner’s premises if
the owner produces a rabies vaccination certificate showing that the animal has
valid rabies vaccination protection. Impoundment costs shall be borne by the
owner. If in the opinion of the local Health Officer symptoms develop
justifying a microscopic examination, then the animal shall be killed and
examination made by the State Board of Health.
   (b)   In lieu of the provisions of division (a) above, the owner of any such
animal may, at his or her own expense, take such animal to any duly qualified
and licensed veterinarian in the city for observation. Such veterinarian shall
report his or her findings in writing to the local Health Officer. If in the
opinion of such veterinarian a microscopic examination is justified, then the
animal shall be turned over to the Animal Control Officer or any law
enforcement officer to be killed and examination made by the State Board of
Health.
   (c)   Any animal desired for observation by the local Health Officer under
this section shall be delivered to the Animal Control Officer or any law
enforcement officer upon demand and shall not be withheld, hidden or harbored.
Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a violation of this code.
Upon refusal of any person to so deliver such animal, the Municipal Judge shall
cause a warrant to be issued for the arrest of such person, which warrant shall
also provide for the surrender of the animal and shall be lawful authority for
the apprehending and forcible taking of such animal.
§ 2-120 ANIMALS BITTEN BY RABID ANIMALS.
   (a)   Whenever a dog, cat or other animal is bitten by a rabid animal or an
animal later proved to have been rabid, it shall be the duty of the owner of
the animal that is bitten, to report that fact to the local Health Officer and/
or the Police Department.
   (b)   It shall also be the duty of the owner of the bitten animal to either
destroy or have his or her bitten animal destroyed unless:
      (1)   The animal that was bitten had been vaccinated against rabies at
least three weeks before being bitten and has a current vaccination;
      (2)   If the bitten animal has a current vaccination, it shall be
confined for 90 days;
      (3)   The bitten animal shall be released from confinement only upon
written order from the local Health Officer, who declares the animal to be free
of rabies; and
      (4)   If the animal is found to have contracted rabies during
confinement, it shall be properly disposed of.
§ 2-121 SWINE AND CHICKENS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or rear any swine within
the corporate limits of the city.
   (b)   Except where prohibited by subdivision covenants, conditions and
restrictions, it shall be lawful to keep, permit or allow domesticated chickens
within the corporate limits of the city under the following terms and
conditions.
      (1)   No chickens shall be permitted upon properties other than single-
family detached residential lots or tracts, and no more than four hens shall be
allowed for each single-family dwelling.
      (2)   No roosters shall be allowed.
      (3)   There shall be no outside slaughter of chickens.
      (4)   All chickens must be kept at all times in a secure enclosure,
maintained in a neat and sanitary condition at all times and cleaned on a
regular basis so as to prevent offensive odors.
      (5)   Enclosures must not be located in front or side yard setback areas
as defined by the city’s zoning ordinance, and must be located at least 25 feet
from any neighbor’s home.
      (6)   Enclosures must be constructed in accordance with city policies
maintained by the Code Enforcement Officer, and shall be subject to all
applicable permit and construction requirements of the city’s zoning ordinance
and city adopted construction codes.
      (7)   All production from the chickens raised must be consumed on the
premises.
      (8)   All persons desiring to keep chickens within the city must obtain a
permit from the office of the Code Enforcement Officer. Such permit shall be
for the calendar year or portion thereof, and shall be renewed annually during
the month of December for the subsequent calendar year. In cases where the
keeper of the chickens is not the property owner, written consent of the
property owner is required before a permit or permit renewal will be issued.
Enclosure plans and the location of the chickens shall be inspected initially
by the Code Enforcement Officer prior to issuing a permit, and following
application for renewal. The keeper shall further allow access to the location
for inspection at other times within 14 days following contact with the permit
holder, whenever the Officer has reason to believe that these conditions are
not being met.
      (9)   The application for a permit to keep chickens and application for
renewal of the same shall be accompanied by a fee of $20 per calendar year.
      (10)   Any person who keeps chickens in violation of these terms and
conditions shall be subject to a penalty of $50 per day that the violation
persists, and may further be required to remove the chickens.
(Ord. 1656, passed 11-17-2015)
§ 2-122 VEHICULAR ACCIDENTS INVOLVING ANIMALS.
   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes any animal shall
stop at once and shall immediately report such injury or death to the owner of
such animal, or in the event that the owner cannot be ascertained, and located,
the operator shall at once report the accident to the Animal Control Officer or
any law enforcement officer.
§ 2-123 EMERGENCY; PROCLAMATION.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized, whenever in his or her opinion, the danger
to the public safety from rabid animals is made imminent to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning any animal in the city to confine the
animal in a good and sufficient enclosure from which the animal cannot escape,
or fasten such animal by means of a chain on the premises where the owner may
reside, for such time as may be specified in such proclamation. Any animal not
confined during such time may be disposed of wherever found by any police
officer or the Animal Control Officer of the city. The owner of such animal
shall be prosecuted for such violation thereof.
ARTICLE 2: DOGS
Section
   
2-201   Registration and vaccination required; fee
   
2-202   Dog tags
   
2-203   Same; counterfeit tag
   
2-204   Evidence of vaccination
   
2-205   Visiting dogs
   
2-206   Running at large; fine
   
2-207   Impoundment; record; notice; redemption; minimum fee
   
2-208   Disposition of unclaimed dogs
   
2-209   Confinement of dogs in heat
   
2-210   Muzzling
§ 2-201 REGISTRATION AND VACCINATION REQUIRED; FEE.
   (a)   Every owner of any dog over six months of age shall register his or
her name with the name, sex and description of each dog so owned with the City
Clerk.
   (b)   Upon registration, the owner shall present a current, completed
certificate of immunization against rabies. No registration shall follow
without evidence of this document.
   (c)   The license year shall be from January 1 through December 31 of each
year.
   (d)   The City Clerk shall collect an annual tax of $10 for each dog so
registered, however such annual tax shall be waived for dogs registered during
the month of January.
(Ord. 1699, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 2-202 DOG TAGS.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk or designated agent, upon a
showing of current rabies immunization and receipt of the registration fee
hereinbefore required, to keep a record of the registration of dogs, the time
of the registration, the name of the owner or keeper, the number of the
registration, and the amount paid therefor, and shall deliver to the owner or
keeper of the dog a certificate in writing, stating that the person has
registered the dog and the number by which the dog is registered, and shall
also deliver to the owner or keeper of the dog a tag with the registration
number and the registration year thereon, which shall be, by the owner or
keeper, attached to the collar to be used on the dog so registered.
   (b)   When any tag has become lost during a registration period, the owner
of the dog may request a duplicate tag for the remainder of the registration
period. When so requested, the City Clerk shall, upon presentation of the
registration certificate, issue a duplicate of such tag upon the payment of a
fee of $0.50. It shall be unlawful for any person to take off or remove the
city registration tag from any dog belonging to another, or remove the strap or
collar on which the same is fastened.
§ 2-203 SAME; COUNTERFEIT TAG.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place on any dog a tag issued for any
other dog or to make or use any false, forged or counterfeited tag or imitation
thereof.
§ 2-204 EVIDENCE OF VACCINATION.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog kept within the city to fail
to display a current certificate of immunization against rabies issued by an
accredited veterinarian evidencing the vaccination of such dog within two
years, when requested by the Animal Control Officer or any law enforcement
officer.
§ 2-205 VISITING DOGS.
   The provisions of this article with respect to registration shall not apply
to any dog owned by any person visiting or temporarily remaining within the
city for less than 30 days, however, such dogs shall be kept under restraint by
the owner thereof at all times.
§ 2-206 RUNNING AT LARGE; FINE.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or harborer of any dog to permit
such dog to run at large within the city at any time.
   (b)   Any dog running at large within the city shall be impounded as set out
in §
2-207.
   (c)   The owner of any dog impounded for running at large without the tag
required by §
2-202 shall, for the first offense, pay a fine of $25, plus the board bill.
   (d)   For the first offense of an animal running at large with a tag as
required by §
2-202, the owner or harborer claiming any animal, shall, in addition to
presenting a registration receipt, pay the cost of the board bill. For a second
offense within a one-year-period, the owner or harborer shall pay a fine of
$50, plus the board bill. For a third and all subsequent offenses within a one-
year-period, the owner or harborer shall pay a fine of $75, plus the cost of
the board bill.
§ 2-207 IMPOUNDMENT; RECORD; NOTICE; REDEMPTION; MINIMUM FEE.
   (a)   Any dog found in violation of the provisions of this article shall be
subject to impoundment by the city.
   (b)   A record of all dogs impounded shall be kept by the city containing
the following information: color; sex; weight; height; identifying marks;
registration number (if any); and the date of impoundment.
   (c)   No dog impounded under this section shall be disposed of until after
expiration of a minimum of three full business days of custody during which the
public has clear access to inspect and recover the dog through time periods
ordinarily accepted as usual business hours. During such time of custody, the
city shall attempt to notify the owner or custodian of any dog impounded by
such facility if the owner or custodian is known or reasonably ascertainable.
Such dog may, at any time, be released to the legal owner, moved to a
veterinary hospital for treatment or observation, released in any manner, if
such dog was a gift to the animal shelter, or euthanized by a licensed
veterinarian if it appears to the veterinarian that the dog is diseased or
disabled beyond recovery. If within three full business days the owner does not
appear to claim the dog, then the dog may be sold, euthanized or otherwise
disposed of.
   (d)   If at any time before the sale or destruction of any dog impounded
under the provisions of this article, the owner of an impounded dog does appear
and redeem the dog, it shall be turned over to the person claiming it upon
payment of any impoundment fees or penalties plus the actual costs of
impoundment, and shall not apply to any dog alleged as being vicious under §
2-115 or suspected of rabies under §
2-119.
   (e)   The minimum impoundment fee shall be $25.
   (f)   Any dog impounded may not be released without a current rabies
vaccination.
    (g)   Impoundment hereunder shall not preclude any court from imposing and
executing any fine that might otherwise be levied under this article for
violation of any of the provisions thereof; nor shall impoundment be a defense
in any prosecution commenced hereunder.
   (h)   The redemption of any dog impounded for a violation of any provision
of this chapter shall be prima facie evidence of the violation of such
provision by the person redeeming the dog.
(Ord. 1286, passed 6-16-1998)
§ 2-208 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED DOGS.
   (a)   If any dog is not redeemed by its owner or harborer within the time
allowed for redemption as specified in §
2-207 thereof, the Animal Control Officer, any authorized law enforcement
officer, any authorized veterinarian or any duly authorized pound personnel may
destroy such dog or sell the same for the costs of impoundment and keeping,
plus any registration fee due for the current year.
   (b)   No dog may be transferred to the permanent custody of a prospective
owner unless:
      (1)   Such dog has been surgically spayed or neutered before the physical
transfer of the dog occurs; or
      (2)   The prospective owner signs an agreement to have the dog spayed or
neutered and deposits with the city not less than the lowest nor more than the
highest cost of spaying or neutering in the community as determined by the
city. Any funds deposited under such an agreement shall be refunded to such
person upon presentation of a written statement signed by a licensed
veterinarian that the dog has been spayed or neutered. If such person does not
reclaim the deposit within six months after receiving custody of the dog, the
city shall keep the deposit and may reclaim the unspayed or unneutered dog.
   (c)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require sterilization of
a dog that is being held by the city and that may be claimed by its rightful
owner within the holding period established in §
2-207.
§ 2-209 CONFINEMENT OF DOGS IN HEAT.
   Any unspayed female dog in the stage of estrus (heat) shall be confined
during such period of time in a house, building or secure enclosure, and the
area of enclosure shall be so constructed that no other dog or dogs may gain
voluntary access to the confined animal except for purposes of planned
breeding. Any animal that is in the state of estrus (heat) and that is not
properly confined, or any such animal that is creating a neighborhood nuisance,
shall be removed to a boarding kennel, to a veterinary hospital or to the
animal shelter. All expenses incurred as a result of the confinement shall be
paid by the owner. The owner of animals removed to the animal shelter shall be
charged at the rate established from time to time by the animal shelter for
routine confinement. Failure to comply with the order of the Animal Control
Officer shall be a violation of this code, and the animal will then be
impounded as provided by this chapter.
§ 2-210 MUZZLING.
   Whenever the Mayor shall deem it necessary for the protection and welfare of
the inhabitants of the city, he or she shall issue an order requiring all dogs
kept within the city to be effectively muzzled for such length of time as may
be specified in the order, to prevent them from biting or injuring persons or
animals. Such order shall be published in the official newspaper of the city
for such period of time as the Mayor may deem necessary.
ARTICLE 3: OTHER ANIMALS
Section
   
2-301   Exotic animals
§ 2-301 EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep,
maintain or have in his or her possession or under his or her control within
the city any poisonous reptile or any other dangerous wild animal or reptile,
any vicious or dangerous animal, or any other animal or reptile of wild,
vicious or dangerous propensities.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or have in his
or her possession or under his or her control within the city any of the
following animals:
      (1)   All poisonous animals including rear-fang snakes;
      (2)   Apes: chimpanzees; gibbons; gorillas; orangutans; and siamangs;
      (3)   Baboons;
      (4)   Badgers;
      (5)   Bears;
      (6)   Bison;
      (7)   Bobcats;
      (8)   Cheetahs;
      (9)   Crocodilians, 30 inches in length or more;
      (10)   Constrictor snakes, six feet in length or more;
      (11)   Coyotes;
      (12)   Deer; includes all members of the deer family, for example, white-
tailed deer, elk, antelope and moose;
      (13)   Elephants;
      (14)   Game cocks and other fighting birds;
      (15)   Hippopotami;
      (16)   Hyenas;
      (17)   Jaguars;
      (18)   Leopards;
      (19)   Lions;
      (20)   Lynxes;
      (21)   Monkeys;
      (22)   Ostriches;
      (23)   Pumas; also known as cougars, mountain lions and panthers;
      (24)   Raccoons;
      (25)   Rhinoceroses;
      (26)   Skunks;
      (27)   Tigers; and
      (28)   Wolves.
   (c)   The prohibitions of this section shall not apply to bona fide pet
shops, zoos, circuses, carnivals, educational institutions or medical
institutions, if:
      (1)   Their location conforms to the provisions of the zoning ordinance
of the city;
      (2)   All animals and animal quarters are kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and so maintained as to eliminate objectionable odors; and
      (3)   Animals are maintained in quarters so constructed as to prevent
their escape.
   (d)   The Municipal Judge shall have the authority to order any animal
deemed vicious confined, destroyed or removed from the city.
CHAPTER III: BEVERAGES
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   ENHANCED CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES
      
3.   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
3-101   Definitions
   
3-102   Restriction on location
   
3-103   Minors on premises
   
3-104   Consumption on public property
   
3-105   Public sale; consumption
   
3-106   Common consumption areas
   
3-107   Consumption while driving
   
3-108   Identification card
   
3-109   Underage purchaser
   
3-110   Public dance halls; notification
§ 3-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol, but does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC CANDY.
      (1)   For purposes of manufacturing, any candy or other confectionary
product with an alcohol content greater than 0.5% alcohol by volume; and
      (2)   For purposes of sale at retail, any candy or other confectionary
product with an alcohol content greater than 1% alcohol by volume.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Alcohol, spirits, wine, beer, alcoholic candy and every
liquid or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being, but shall not include
any cereal malt beverage.
   CATERER. An individual, partnership or corporation which sells alcoholic
liquor or cereal malt beverage by the individual drink, and provides services
related to the serving thereof, on unlicensed premises which may be open to the
public, but does not include a holder of a temporary permit selling alcoholic
liquor or cereal malt beverage in accordance with the terms of such permit.
   CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE. Any fermented but undistilled liquor brewed or made
from malt or from a mixture of malt or malt substitute or any flavored malt
beverage, as defined in K.S.A. 41-2729 (2018 Supp.), and amendments thereto or
any flavored malt beverage, as defined in K.S.A. 41-2729, but does not include
any such liquor which is more than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   CLASS A CLUB. A premises which is owned or leased by a corporation,
partnership, business trust or association and which is operated thereby as a
bona fide nonprofit social, fraternal or war veterans’ club, as determined by
the state, for the exclusive use of the corporate stockholders, partners, trust
beneficiaries or associates (hereinafter referred to as members), and their
families and guests accompanying them as provided in K.S.A. 41-2637.
   CLASS B CLUB. A premises operated for profit by a corporation, partnership
or individual, to which members of such club may resort for the consumption of
food or alcoholic beverages and for entertainment.
   CLUB. A Class A or Class B club.
   COMMON CONSUMPTION AREA. A defined indoor or outdoor area not otherwise
subject to a license issued pursuant to the Kansas Liquor Control Act or the
Club and Drinking Establishment Act where the possession and consumption of
alcoholic liquor is allowed pursuant to a common consumption area permit. The
boundaries of any common consumption area must be clearly marked using a
physical barrier or any apparent line of demarcation.
   DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT. Premises which may be open to the general public,
where alcoholic liquor by the individual drink is sold. The term DRINKING
ESTABLISHMENT includes a railway car.
   ENHANCED CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE. Cereal malt beverage as defined herein, and
such term shall include beer containing not more than 6% alcohol by volume when
such beer is sold by a retailer licensed under the Kansas Cereal Malt Beverage
Act, being K.S.A. 41-2701 et seq.
   GENERAL RETAILER. A person who has a license to sell cereal malt beverages
and beer containing not more than 6% alcohol by volume at retail.
   LIMITED RETAILER. A person who has a license to sell cereal malt beverages
and beer containing not more than 6% alcohol by volume at retail only in
original and unopened containers and not for consumption on the premises.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any place at which cereal malt beverages, or alcoholic
beverages, or both are sold.
   TEMPORARY PERMIT. A permit, issued in accordance with the laws of the state,
which allows the permit holder to offer for sale, sell and serve alcoholic
liquor or cereal malt beverage for consumption on unlicensed premises, open to
the public.
   WHOLESALER or DISTRIBUTOR. Any individuals, firms, co-partnerships,
corporations and associations which sell or offer for sale any beverage
referred to in this chapter, to persons, co-partnerships, corporations and
associations authorized by this chapter to sell cereal malt beverages and beer
containing not more than 6% alcohol by volume at retail.
(Ord. 1020, passed - -; Ord. 1707, passed 3-19-2019)
§ 3-102 RESTRICTION ON LOCATION.
   (a)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold or served by a person holding a
license or permit from the city whose place of business or other premises are
located within 150 feet of any church, school or library, said distance to be
measured from the nearest property line of such church, school, college or
library, to the nearest portion of the building occupied by the premises.
   (b)   The distance location of division (a) above shall not apply to a club,
drinking establishment, caterer or temporary permit holder when the license or
permit applicant petitions for and receives a waiver of the distance limitation
from the governing body. The governing body shall grant such a waiver only
following public notice and hearing and a finding by the governing body that
the proximity of the establishment is not adverse to the public welfare or
safety.
   (c)   No license or permit shall be issued for the sale of alcoholic liquor
if the building or use does not meet the zoning ordinance requirements of the
city or conflicts with other city laws, including building and health codes.
(Ord. 1020, passed - -)
§ 3-103 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
remain on any premises where the sale of alcoholic liquor is licensed for on-
premises consumption, or where a caterer or temporary permit holder is serving
alcoholic liquor.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for the operator, person in charge or licensee of
any premises licensed for on-premises consumption of alcoholic liquor or a
caterer or temporary permit holder who is serving alcoholic liquor to permit
any person under the age of 21 years to remain on the premises.
   (c)   This section shall not apply if the person under the age of 21 years
is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or if the licensed or
permitted premises derives not more than 50% of its gross receipts in each
calendar year from the sale of alcoholic liquor for on-premises consumption.
(Ord. 1020, passed - -)
§ 3-104 CONSUMPTION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall drink or consume any alcoholic liquor or cereal malt
beverage on city owned public property, except as hereinafter provided under §
3-105(d).
(K.S.A. 41-719) (Ord. 1020, passed - -; Ord. 1596, passed 8-7-2012)
§ 3-105 PUBLIC SALE; CONSUMPTION.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, serve or dispense any
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor in any public place not licensed to
sell, serve or dispense such beverage at such public place within or under the
jurisdiction of the city.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or consume any cereal
malt beverage or alcoholic liquor in any public place not licensed to sell and
serve such beverage for public consumption at such public place within or under
the jurisdiction of the city.
   (c)   For purposes of this section, the term “public place” shall include
upon any street, public thoroughfare, public parking lot or any privately owned
parking area made available to the public generally, within any parked or
driven motor vehicle situated in any of the aforesaid places or upon any
property owned by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless such
property is leased to others under K.S.A. 12-1740 et seq. if the property is
being used for hotel or motel purposes or purposes incidental thereto or is
owned or operated by an airport authority created pursuant to K.S.A. Chapter
27.
   (d)   Upon application, the governing body may in its sole discretion grant
a temporary permit for Wamego Chamber of Commerce or City of Wamego sanctioned
promotional events at which participating retailers may sell and serve alcohol,
alcoholic liquor and cereal malt beverages for consumption in or upon
designated “public places”.
(K.S.A. 41-719) (Ord. 1020, passed - -; Ord. 1596, passed 8-7-2012)
§ 3-106 COMMON CONSUMPTION AREAS.
   (a)   (1)   At the discretion of the governing body the city may establish
one or more common consumption areas within the limits of the city by ordinance
and authorize the possession and consumption of alcoholic liquor or cereal malt
beverage within the common consumption area.
      (2)   The ordinance shall designate the boundaries of any common
consumption area and prescribe the times during which alcoholic liquor or
cereal malt beverage may be consumed therein.
      (3)   The ordinance shall require that any public street or roadway that
lies within a common consumption area be blocked from motorized traffic during
the hours in which alcoholic liquor or cereal malt beverage is consumed.
   (b)   Applications for the establishment of common consumption areas shall
be submitted to the City Clerk, subject to the following.
      (1)   The application shall describe the proposed boundaries, including a
description of the physical barrier or other apparent demarcation to be used,
of any common consumption area and the proposed times during which alcoholic
liquor may be consumed therein.
      (2)   Each application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable
application fee.
      (3)   Each application shall be accompanied by an acknowledgment that
each common consumption area permit holder shall be liable for violations of
all liquor laws that occur off the licensee’s premises, but within the common
consumption area identified in the ordinance and that no permit holder shall
permit any person to remove any open container of alcoholic liquor from the
boundaries of the common consumption area.
   (c)   The City Clerk shall immediately notify the director of the division
of alcoholic beverage control of the establishment of a common consumption area
within the city and submit a copy of the ordinance along with such notice.
   (d)   In order to participate in the common consumption area, licensees must
apply for and receive a permit from the Director of the Division of Alcoholic
Beverage Control.
(K.S.A. 41-2659)
§ 3-107 CONSUMPTION WHILE DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any cereal malt beverage or
alcoholic liquor while operating any vehicle upon any street or highway.
(K.S.A. 8-1599, 41-719) (Ord. 1020, passed - -)
§ 3-108 IDENTIFICATION CARD.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Display, cause or permit to be displayed, or have in possession,
any fictitious, fraudulently altered, or fraudulently obtained identification
card for purposes relating to the sale, purchase or consumption of either
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor;
      (2)   Display or represent any identification card not issued to such
person as being his or her card for purposes relating to the sale, purchase or
consumption of either cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor;
      (3)   Permit any unlawful use of an identification card issued to a
person for purposes relating to the sale, purchase or consumption of either
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor; and
      (4)   Photograph, photostat, duplicate or in any way reproduce any
identification card or facsimile thereof in such a manner that it could be
mistaken for a valid identification card or display or have in possession any
such photograph, photostat, duplicate, reproduction or facsimile for purposes
relating to the sale, purchase or consumption of either cereal malt beverage or
alcoholic liquor.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Lend any identification card to or knowingly permit the use of any
identification card by any person under 21 years of age for use in the sale,
purchase or consumption of any alcoholic liquor; and
      (2)   Lend any identification card to or knowingly permit the use of any
identification card by any person under 21 years of age for use in the sale,
purchase or consumption of any cereal malt beverage.
(Ord. 1020, passed - -)
§ 3-109 UNDERAGE PURCHASER.
   (a)    It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to purchase
or attempt to purchase any cereal malt beverage.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to purchase
or attempt to purchase any alcoholic liquor.
   (c)   No person under 21 years of age shall possess or consume cereal malt
beverage except as authorized by law.
   (d)   Violation of this section by a person 18 years or more years of age
but less than 21 years of age is a violation punishable:
      (1)   By a fine of not less than $100 and not more than $250 or by 40
hours of public service, or by both, if committed on premises licensed pursuant
to K.S.A. Chapter 41, Article 26 or Article 27; or
      (2)   By a fine of not less than $25 and not more than $250 or by ten
hours of public service, or by both, if committed on any other premises.
(K.S.A. 41-727) (Ord. 1020, passed - -; Ord. 1050, passed - -)
§ 3-110 PUBLIC DANCE HALLS; NOTIFICATION.
   (a)   The proprietor or owners or person or persons in charge of any hall,
building or place located within the city in which public dances are held or to
be held and any alcoholic liquor is to be sold, dispensed, drunk or consumed
shall first provide written notification to the Chief of Police at least five
days prior to the dance.
   (b)   Such place or places used for public dancing shall be conducted in a
quiet, orderly manner and the proprietor or owners or person or persons in
charge of any hall, building or place shall be responsible and have the
authority to close such dance at any time dancers or spectators do not conduct
themselves in an orderly or decent manner.
(Ord. 1020, passed - -)
ARTICLE 2: ENHANCED CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES
Section
   
3-201   Cereal malt beverage license adopted by reference
§ 3-201 CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE LICENSE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The cereal malt beverage license, issued by the city pursuant to this
article, authorizes the sale of enhanced cereal malt beverage as defined in
Article 1 of this chapter, by those retailers in compliance with the provisions
specified in the document known as the “City of Wamego Regulations Governing
Sale of Enhanced Cereal Malt Beverages and/or Beer Containing Not More Than 6%
Alcohol By Volume” and amendments thereto, which document is hereby
incorporated by reference. No fewer than three copies of said document shall be
marked or stamped “Official Copy as Adopted by Ordinance No. 1707”, with all
sections or portions thereof intended to be omitted or changed clearly marked
to show any such omission or change, with a copy of said ordinance attached,
and filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the
public at all reasonable hours.
(Ord. 1707, passed 3-19-2019)
ARTICLE 3: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
Section
   
3-301   Alcoholic liquor sales; city occupational tax; posting of receipt
   
3-302   Hours of sale; packaged alcoholic liquor
   
3-303   Temporary permits; city occupational tax; posting of receipt
§ 3-301 ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR SALES; CITY OCCUPATIONAL TAX; POSTING OF RECEIPT.
   (a)   The sale of alcoholic liquor, as defined under K.S.A. 41-102 is
governed by the Kansas Liquor Control Act at K.S.A. Chapter 41.
   (b)   There is hereby levied an occupational tax on each establishment
required to hold a license under said Kansas Liquor Control Act, located in the
city and holding a license issued by the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage
Control. This tax shall be paid before any business is begun under an original
state license and within five days after any renewal of a state license, except
for a licensed caterer. Caterers licensed with the state shall have the option
of occupational tax of $600, or a temporary license for $25 per each event. The
city occupational tax for any such establishment shall be $600 for the duration
of the state license.
   (c)   The holder of a state license for sale of alcoholic liquor issued by
the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control shall present such license to
the City Clerk when applying to pay the occupational tax levied under division
(b) herein and the tax shall be received, and a receipt shall be issued for the
period covered by the state license.
   (d)   Every licensee under this article shall cause the city alcoholic
liquor occupational tax receipt to be posted in plain view, next to or below
the state license in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 1753, passed 6-1-2021; Ord. 1789, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 3-302 HOURS OF SALE; PACKAGED ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   Pursuant to K.S.A. 41-712 referencing K.S.A. 41-2911(b), no person shall
sell at retail alcoholic liquor in the original package in the city:
   (a)   On any Sunday, before 12:00 noon or after 8:00 p.m.;
   (b)   On Easter Sunday, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day; and
   (c)   Before 9:00 a.m. or after 11:00 p.m. on any day when the sale is
permitted.
(Ord. 1753, passed 6-1-2021; Ord. 1789, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 3-303 TEMPORARY PERMITS; CITY OCCUPATIONAL TAX; POSTING OF RECEIPT.
   (a)   There is hereby levied a temporary occupational tax in the amount of
$25 per day on each group or individual holding a temporary permit for the sale
of alcoholic liquor, issued by the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage
Control, authorizing sales within the city.
   (b)   The holder of said state temporary permit shall present such permit to
the City Clerk when applying to pay the temporary occupational tax levied under
division (a) herein and the tax shall be received, and a receipt shall be
issued for the period covered by the state permit.
   (c)   Every temporary permit holder under this article shall cause the city
temporary occupational tax receipt to be posted in plain view, next to or below
the state permit in a conspicuous place on the subject premises.
(Ord. 1753, passed 6-1-2021; Ord. 1789, passed 3-21-2023)
CHAPTER IV: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
   Article
      
1.   BOARD OF APPEALS
      
2.   BUILDING CONTRACTOR LICENSING
      
3.   BUILDING
      
4.   ELECTRICAL
      
5.   PLUMBING
      
6.   DRAINLAYING
      
7.   GAS FITTING
      
8.   MECHANICAL
      
9.   ENERGY CONSERVATION
      
10.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
11.   MOVING BUILDINGS
      
12.   NUMBERING BUILDINGS
      
13.   DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURES
      
14.   UNDERGROUND UTILITY DAMAGE PREVENTION AND SAFETY
      
15.   SHIPPING CONTAINERS
ARTICLE 1: BOARD OF APPEALS
Section
   
4-101   Created; purpose
   
4-102   Conflicting provisions
   
4-103   Composition
   
4-104   Appointment
   
4-105   Terms
   
4-106   Ex officio member
   
4-107   Organization; regulations
   
4-108   Three person panels
   
4-109   Function of Committee as a whole
   
4-110   Manner, distribution of decisions
   
4-111   Appeals
§ 4-101 CREATED; PURPOSE.
   In order to provide for determination of the suitability of alternate
materials and methods of construction or installation and in order to provide
for reasonable interpretations of the provisions of the city’s building,
electrical, plumbing, drainlaying, gas fitting, mechanical, energy
conservation, fire and property maintenance codes, there shall be and is hereby
created a general Board of Appeals for such codes.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-102 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   All code sections, ordinances or parts of ordinances inconsistent with this
article regarding methods for appeals pertaining to the building, electrical,
plumbing, drainlaying, gas fitting, mechanical, energy conservation, fire and
property maintenance codes of the city are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-103 COMPOSITION.
   (a)   The General Board of Appeals shall consist of 11 members who are
qualified by experience and training to pass judgment upon matters contained in
the city’s technical codes.
   (b)   The members shall be selected as follows:
      (1)   Two members shall be builders licensed and actively engaged in
building in the city;
      (2)   Two members shall be master and journeyman electricians certified
and actively engaged in electrical work in the city;
      (3)   Two members shall be master and journeyman plumbers certified and
actively engaged in plumbing work in the city;
      (4)   Two members shall be master and journeyman gas fitters certified
and actively engaged in gas fitting work in the city;
      (5)   Two members shall be in the mechanical trade certified and actively
engaged in mechanical work in the city; and
      (6)   One graduate certified engineer residing in the city, licensed to
practice in this state.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-104 APPOINTMENT.
   The members of the General Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the Mayor,
with the advice of the governing body.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-105 TERMS.
   The members of the General Board of Appeals shall serve for three-year
terms; provided however, that for the initial appointment, the engineer and the
two builder appointees shall each serve for three- year terms, one of the
electrician, plumber, gas fitter and mechanic appointees shall serve for two-
year terms, and the remaining appointees shall serve for a one-year term.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-106 EX OFFICIO MEMBER.
   The Building Official of the city shall be an ex officio member of the
General Board of Appeals, or any section or segment thereof, and shall act as
Secretary of the Board.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-107 ORGANIZATION; REGULATIONS.
   The General Board of Appeals shall select its own chairperson and other
officers, and adopt reasonable rules and regulations as necessary for the
conduct of meetings and hearings of the Board or any segment thereof.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-108 THREE PERSON PANELS.
   The General Board of Appeals shall hear and resolve the matters set out in §
4-101, by means of three person panels constituted as follows:
   (a)   Building Code and Property Maintenance Code: the Engineer and the two
building members;
   (b)   Electrical Code: the Engineer and the two electrician members;
   (c)   Plumbing and Drainlaying Codes: the Engineer and the two plumber
members;
   (d)   Gas Fitting Code: the Engineer, one plumber and one mechanical member;
   (e)   Mechanical Code: the engineer and the two mechanical members; and
   (f)   Fire Code: the engineer and the two building members.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-109 FUNCTION OF COMMITTEE AS A WHOLE.
   (a)   For the purpose of reviewing the building, electrical, plumbing,
drainlaying, gas fitting, mechanical, energy conservation, fire and property
maintenance codes, the General Board of Appeals shall meet as a committee of
the whole and make written suggestions to the governing body regarding any
changes or modifications to those codes.
   (b)   To provide for the prompt resolution of questions, a member from one
of the other three person panels may be substituted for an unavailable member
of the three person panel to which a hearing is being directed; provided, the
substitution is with the consent of all the parties involved in the dispute.
Consent to substitution shall not be unreasonably withheld, nor shall it be
withheld to foster delay in the hearings. Decisions by any three person panel
shall be made by majority vote. If any three person panel should by unanimous
vote of all three members determine that the issue involved has a wide reaching
effect on the total building industry in the city, the question can then be
referred to the full Board of Appeals for hearing and decision.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-110 MANNER, DISTRIBUTION OF DECISIONS.
   All decisions and findings of the Code Appeals Board shall be rendered in
writing to the Building Official of the city’s code inspection or code
enforcement function with a duplicate copy being furnished to the other
effected parties.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-111 APPEALS.
   If any party remains aggrieved after any decision of any three member panel,
or the 11 member General Board of Appeals, the aggrieved party may appeal the
matter to the governing body within seven days of the date of the decision. A
filing fee of $50 shall be received before any governing body decision is made.
Such fee shall be credited to the General Operating Fund of the city.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
ARTICLE 2: BUILDING CONTRACTOR LICENSING
Section
   
4-201   Definitions
   
4-202   Building contractor licensing
   
4-203   Same; licensing authority
   
4-204   Same; application form and fee
   
4-205   Revocation of license
§ 4-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING CONTRACTOR. Any person who contracts with the owner or tenant of
property, either directly, or indirectly as a subcontractor, to build,
construct, alter, repair, add to or wreck any building or structure upon said
property, or any portion thereof, within the city, for which a permit is
required by this code, for a fixed price, fee, percentage or other compensation
other than wages, or who advertises or otherwise represents to the public to
have the capacity or ability to undertake to build, construct, alter, repair,
add to or wreck any building or structure or any portion thereof; or who
builds, constructs, alters, adds to or wreck any building or structure on
either his or her own or other property, for the purpose of speculation. The
term BUILDING CONTRACTOR includes a licensed tradesman contracting work within
his or her trade, such as a licensed electrician, plumber, drainlayer, gas
fitter or mechanic, but does not include an employee of the BUILDING
CONTRACTOR.
   OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner,
joint venture, joint stock company, partnership, association, club, company,
corporation, business, trust, organization, city, school district, state or
federal entities or any agent, servant, officer or employee of any of them.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-202 BUILDING CONTRACTOR LICENSING.
   (a)   No person shall perform work in the city as a building contractor
without having first obtained a building contractor’s license.
   (b)   Any property owner shall have the right to perform work upon a single-
family residence wherein the owner resides without procuring a building
contractor’s license as required by this article. In all other respects, such
persons and such construction work shall be subject to the provisions of this
article as to installation, the procurement of a permit, inspections and
payment of the inspection fees.
   (c)   Building contractors holding a license from the city shall be required
to procure an additional building contractor’s license to authorize work in a
category other than that for which the original license was issued. The
categories are as defined below:
      (1)   Building construction;
      (2)   Electrical; and
      (3)   Plumbing, mechanical, gas fitting, drainlaying.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-203 SAME; LICENSING AUTHORITY.
   The Building Official shall issue licenses for the building contractor
described in this article. The license fees prescribed in this article shall be
payable biennially on or before January 10 of each odd- numbered year, and
shall not be prorated because part of the two-year period has elapsed.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-204 SAME; APPLICATION FORM AND FEE.
   Applications for building contractor’s licenses shall be upon such form and
provide such information as prescribed by the Building Official, and shall be
accompanied by $200 for the first two-year period, and $80 for each subsequent
two-year period. Such fees shall be submitted along with the application and
shall be credited to the General Operating Fund of the city. Applicants shall
procure and maintain a liability insurance policy in the amount of $1,000,000
covering bodily injury and property damage on a combined single limit basis.
Such policies of insurance shall be issued by an insurance company authorized
to do business in the State of Kansas. A building contractor may qualify as to
the insurance requirements by filing a certificate with the Building Official
executed by the resident agent of such company, stating that the required
policy of insurance has been issued by such company for the purpose required by
this article and that such insurer will not cancel the policy except upon
giving 30 days’ notice in writing to the city.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-205 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (a)   The Building Official along with the three person panel established
under §
4-108 of this chapter relating to the trade of a subject building contractor
(builder, electrician, plumber, drainlayer, gas fitter, mechanic), may upon
their motion, and shall upon a verified complaint in writing, require a
building contractor to appear before them for a hearing concerning the
revocation of his or her license. The Building Official shall notify the
building contractor at least five days prior to any hearing or by mailing said
notice to the contractor’s last known address, at least five days prior to any
hearing.
   (b)   After hearing all pertinent evidence, the Building Official, along
with the builder members on the Code Appeals Board, shall have the power to
suspend for a temporary period, or permanently revoke, the building
contractor’s license if the Building Official along with the builder members on
the Code Appeals Board makes the finding that the building contractor has
committed any one or more of the following acts or admissions:
      (1)   Willful and deliberate disregard and violation of the provisions of
this code or any other ordinance of the city, or failure to comply with any
lawful order of the Building Official;
      (2)   Misrepresentation of a material fact by the applicant in obtaining
a building contractor’s license, or in obtaining a building permit;
      (3)   Fraudulent use of license to obtain building permits for other
persons;
      (4)   Failure to obtain permits as required; and
      (5)   Failure to appear before the Building Official after notice given
as above.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
ARTICLE 3: BUILDING
Section
   
4-301   Adoption of the International Building Code
   
4-302   Same; amendments
   
4-303   Adoption of the International Residential Code
   
4-304   Same; amendments
   
4-305   Adoption of the International Existing Buildings Code
   
4-306   Same; amendments
   
4-307   Building permit fee
   
4-308   Building permits prior to public improvements
§ 4-301 ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference, for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for construction, alteration, addition, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures within the corporate city limits of the City of Wamego, Kansas, that
certain standard building code known as the International Building Code, 2018
Edition, including Appendices C, F, G, I and K as being recommended by the
International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor, Washington,
DC, 20001, save and except such articles, sections, parts or portions thereof
as hereinafter omitted, deleted, modified or changed. No fewer than one copy of
such publication shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as adopted by Ord.
1629”, and shall be attached to a copy of this ordinance and filed with the
City Clerk and open for inspection and available to the public at all
reasonable hours. All administrative departments of the city charged with
enforcement of this code shall be supplied, at the cost of the city, such
number of official copies, similarly marked, as may be deemed expedient.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-302 SAME; AMENDMENTS.
   The International Building Code, adopted by §
4-301, is hereby changed, altered, modified or otherwise amended as follows:
   (a)   Section 101.1 of the International Building Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Building Code of
the City of Wamego, Kansas, herein after known as “this code”.
   (b)   Section 105.2 of the International Building Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 105.2 Work exempt from permit. Exemptions from permit requirements of
this code shall not be deemed to grant authority for any work to be done in any
manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or
ordinances of this jurisdiction. Permits shall not be required for the
following:
   1.   One story detached accessory structures provided the floor area does
not exceed 200 square feet.
   2.   Fences not over 7 feet high.
   3.   Oil derricks.
   4.   Retaining walls that are not over 7 feet in height measured from grade
on the low side to the top of the wall, unless supporting a surcharge or
impounding class I, II or IIIA liquids.
   5.   Water tanks supported directly on grade if the capacity does not exceed
5,000 gallons and the ratio of height to diameter or width does not exceed 2:1.
   6.   Sidewalks, driveways and non-enclosed or covered decks not more than 30
inches above adjacent grade at any point, not over any story or basement below
and not part of an accessible route.
   7.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, countertops and
similar finish work.
   8.   Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and
scenery.
   9.   Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to a group R-3 occupancy that
are less than 24 inches deep, do not exceed 5,000 gallons and are installed
entirely above ground.
   10.   Shade cloth structures constructed for nursery or agricultural
purposes, not including service systems.
   11.   Swings and other playground equipment.
   12.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall that do not project more
than 54 inches from the exterior wall and do not require additional support.
   13.   Non-fixed and movable fixtures, cases, racks, counters and partitions
not over 5 feet 9 inches in height.
   14.   Changes of occupancy to an equal or lesser hazard category as denoted
in both Table 1012.4 and Table 1012.5 of the 2012 International Existing
Building Code where no other work requiring a permit is being done.
   15.   Application of siding materials and roofing materials which do not
increase the load on the structure (i.e. removal and replacement work is
exempt).
   (c)   Section 109.4 of the International Building Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 109.4 Work commencing before permit issuance. Any person who commences
any work on a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing
system before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to a fee equal
to one-half of the permit fee in addition to the required permit fees at the
discretion of the Building Official.
   (d)   Section 406.3.4 of the International Building Code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Section 406.3.4 Separation. Separations shall comply with the following:
   1.   The private garage shall be separated from the dwelling unit and its
attic by means of gypsum board, not less than 1/2 inch (12.7 mm) in thickness,
applied to the garage side. Garages beneath habitable rooms shall be separated
from all habitable rooms by not less than 5/8 inch (15.9 mm) type X gypsum
board and 1/2 inch (12.7 mm) gypsum board applied to structures supporting the
separation from habitable rooms above the garage. Door openings between a
private garage and the dwelling unit shall be equipped with either solid wood
doors or solid or honeycomb core steel doors not less than 1-3/8 inch (34.9 mm)
in thickness, or in compliance with Section 716.5.3 with a fire protection
rating of not less than 20 minutes. Openings from a private garage directly
into a room used for sleeping purposes shall not be permitted.
   2.   Ducts in a private garage and ducts penetrating the walls or ceilings
separating the dwelling unit, including its attic area, from the garage shall
be constructed of sheet steel of not less than 0.019 inches (0.48 mm), in
thickness, and shall have no openings into the garage.
   3.   A separation is not required between a Group R-3 and a U carport,
provided the carport is entirely open on at least two or more sides and there
are not enclosed areas above.
   (e)   Section 903.3.1.2.1 of the International Building Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 903.3.1.2.1 Balconies and Decks. Sprinkler protection shall be provided
for exterior balconies, breezeways of combustible construction, decks and
ground floor patios of dwelling units where there is a roof or deck above.
Sidewall sprinklers that are used to protect such areas shall be permitted to
be located such that their deflectors are within 1 inch (25 mm) to 6 inches
(152 mm) below the structural members and a maximum distance of 14 inches (356
mm) below the deck of the exterior balconies, breezeways and decks that are
constructed of open wood joist construction.
   (f)   Section 903.4.2 of the International Building Code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Section 903.4.2 Alarms. Approved audible/visual devices shall be connected to
every automatic sprinkler system. Such sprinkler water-flow devices shall be
activated by water flow equivalent to the flow of a single sprinkler of the
smallest orifice size installed in the system. Alarm devices shall be provided
on the exterior of the building directly above the fire department connection
or an approved location. Where a fire alarm system is installed, actuation of
the automatic sprinkler system shall actuate the building fire alarm system.
   (g)   Section 906.1.1 Exception, of the International Building Code is
hereby deleted.
   (h)   Section 1008.1.9.3 of the International Building Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 1008.1.9.3 Locks and latches. Locks and latches shall be permitted to
prevent the operation of doors where any of the following exists:
   1.   Places of detention or restraint.
   2.   In buildings in occupancy Group A having an occupant load of 300 or
less, Group B, F, M and S, and in places of religious worship, the main
exterior door or doors is permitted to be equipped with thumb turn operated
locking devices from the egress side provided:
   2.1   A readily visible durable sign is posted on the egress side on or
adjacent to the door stating: THIS DOOR TO REMAIN UNLOCKED WHEN BUILDING IS
OCCUPIED. This sign shall be in letters one inch high on a contrasting
background.
   2.2.   Doors other than those regulated by exception 2 in Group B, F, M and
S, and in places of religious worship, having an occupant load of 500 or less,
the secondary exterior door or doors is permitted to be equipped with thumb
turn operated locking devices from the egress side.
   2.3.   Doors serving rooms or spaces accessory to group A occupancies not in
the means of egress for the group A occupancy, are permitted to be equipped
with thumb turn operated locking devices from the egress side.
   2.4.   The use of key operated or thumb turn locking devices is revocable by
the Building Official for due cause.
   3.   Where egress doors are used in pairs, approved automatic flush bolts
shall be permitted to be used, provided that the door leaf having the automatic
flush bolts has no doorknob or surface mounted hardware. The unlatching of any
leaf shall not require more than one operation.
   4.   Doors from individual dwelling units or sleeping units of Group R
occupancies having an occupant load of 10 or less are permitted to be equipped
with a night latch, dead bolt or security chain, provided such devices are
openable from the inside without the use of a key or tool.
   5.   Fire doors after the minimum elevated temperature has disabled the
unlatching mechanism in accordance with listed fire door test procedures.
   (i)   Section 1009.16 of the International Building Code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Section 1009.16 Stairway to roof. In buildings four or more stories above grade
plane, one stairway shall extend to the roof surface, unless the roof has a
slope steeper than four units vertical in twelve units horizontal (33 percent
slope) or unless deemed not necessary by the Building Official. In buildings
without an occupied roof, access to the roof from the top story shall be
permitted to be by an alternating tread device.
   (j)   Section 1013.4 of the International Building Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 1013.4. Opening limitations. Open guards shall have intermediate rails
or an ornamental pattern such that a sphere 4-1/2 inches (102 mm) in diameter
cannot pass through.
Exceptions:
   1.   The open space between the intermediate rails or ornamental pattern of
guardrails in areas of commercial and industrial-type occupancies which are not
accessible to the public may be such that a sphere 12 inches (305 mm) in
diameter cannot pass through.
   2.   The triangular openings formed by the riser, tread and bottom element
of a guardrail at the open side of a stairway may be of such size that a sphere
6 inches (152 mm) in diameter cannot pass through.
   3.   At elevated walking surfaces for access to and use of electrical,
mechanical and plumbing systems or equipment, guards shall have balusters or be
of solid materials such that a sphere with a diameter of 21 inches cannot pass
through any opening.
   (k)   Section 1013.8 of the International Building Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 1013.8 Window sills. In occupancy groups R-2 and R-3, one and two
family and multiple family dwellings, where the opening of the sill portion of
an operable window is located more than 72 inches (1829 mm) above the finished
grade or other surface below, the lowest part of the clear opening of the
window shall be at a height not less than 18 inches (457.2 mm) above the
finished floor surface of the room in which the window is located. Operable
sections of windows located lower than 18 inches (457.2 mm) shall be limited to
a 4 inch (101.6 mm) opening or be supplied with approved guards when more than
72 inches (1829 mm) above the finished grade or surface below.
   (l)   Section 1029.1 of the International Building Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 1029.1 General. In addition to the means of egress required by this
chapter, provisions shall be made for emergency escape and rescue in group R as
applicable in Section 101.2 and Group I-1 occupancies. Basements and sleeping
rooms below the fourth story shall have at least one exterior emergency escape
and rescue opening in accordance with this section. Such openings shall open
directly into a public street, public alley, yard or court.
Exception:
In other than Group R-3 occupancies, buildings equipped throughout with an
approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or
903.3.1.2 may have the required above grade egress windows fixed in a closed
position as long as the required ventilation is maintained.
   (m)   Section 1029.2 of the International Building Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 1029.2 Minimum size. Emergency escape and rescue openings shall have a
minimum net clear opening of 5.7 square feet.
   (n)   Chapter 11 of the International Building Code is hereby deleted.
   (o)   Section 1704.2 Exceptions of the International Building Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 1704.2 Exception: Special inspections are not required when approved by
the Building Official. The Building Official may also accept inspector
qualifications other than those required in this code for specific projects.
   (p)   Section 2701.1 of the International Building Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 2701.1 Scope. This chapter governs the electrical components, equipment
and systems used in buildings and structures covered by this code. Electrical
components, equipment and systems shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the provisions of the National Electrical Code as adopted in §
4-402 of the city code of ordinances.
   (q)   Section 2702.1 of the International Building Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 2702.1 Installation. Emergency and standby power systems shall be
installed in accordance with this code, the National Electrical Code, NFPA 110
and NFPA 111.
   (r)   Chapter 34 of the International Building Code is hereby deleted.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-303 ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference, for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for construction, alteration, addition, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures within the corporate city limits of the City of Wamego, Kansas, that
certain standard residential code known as the International Residential Code,
2018 Edition, including Appendices A, B, C, E, F, G, H, J, M, N, P and Q, as
being recommended by the International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW
6th Floor, Washington, DC, 20001, save and except such articles, sections,
parts or portions thereof as hereinafter omitted, deleted, modified or changed.
No fewer than one copy of such publication shall be marked or stamped “Official
Copy as adopted by Ord. 1629”, and shall be attached to a copy of this
ordinance and filed with the City Clerk and open for inspection and available
to the public at all reasonable hours. All administrative departments of the
city charged with enforcement of this code shall be supplied, at the cost of
the city, such number of official copies, similarly marked, as may be deemed
expedient.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-304 SAME; AMENDMENTS.
   The International Residential Code, adopted by §
4-303, is hereby changed, altered, modified or otherwise amended as follows:
   (a)   Section R101.1 of the International Residential Code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Section R101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Residential Code
for one and two family dwellings of the City of Wamego, Kansas, and herein
after known as “this code”.
   (b)   Section R105.2 of the International Residential Code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Section R105.2 Work exempt from permit. Permits shall not be required for the
following. Exemption from permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed
to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of
this code or any other law or ordinances of this jurisdiction.
Building:
   1.   One story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage sheds,
playhouses and similar uses, provided the floor area does not exceed 200 square
feet.
   2.   Fences not over 7 feet high.
   3.   Retaining walls that are not over 7 feet in height measured from grade
on the low end to the top of the wall, unless supporting a surcharge.
   4.   Water tanks supported directly upon grade if the capacity does not
exceed 5,000 gallons and the ratio of height to diameter or width does not
exceed 2 to 1.
   5.   Sidewalks and driveways.
   6.   Porches, decks and similar uses which are less than 30 inches from
floor to grade at any point and are not roofed or enclosed.
   7.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, countertops and
similar finish work.
   8.   Swings and other playground equipment.
   9.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall which do not project more
than 54 inches from the exterior wall and do not require additional support.
   10.   Application of siding materials which do not increase the load on the
structure (i.e., removal and replacement work is exempt).
Electrical:
Repairs and Maintenance:
A permit shall not be required for minor repair work, including the replacement
of lamps or the connection of approved portable electrical equipment to
approved permanently installed receptacles.
Gas:
   1.   Portable heating, cooking or clothes drying appliances.
   2.   Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval of equipment
or make such equipment unsafe.
   3.   Portable fuel cell appliances that are not connected to a fixed piping
system and are not interconnected to a power grid.
Mechanical:
   1.   Portable heating and ventilation appliances.
   2.   Portable cooling units or portable evaporative coolers.
   3.   Steam, hot or chilled water piping within any heating or cooling
equipment regulated by this code.
   4.   Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval of equipment
or make such equipment unsafe.
   5.   Self contained refrigeration systems containing 10 pounds or less of
refrigerant that are actuated by motors of 1 horsepower or less.
   6.   Portable-fuel-cell appliances that are not connected to a fixed piping
system and are not interconnected to a power grid.
The clearing of stoppages or stopping of leaks in drains, water, soil, waste or
vent pipe; provided, however, that if any concealed trap, drainpipe, water,
soil, waste or vent pipe becomes defective and it becomes necessary to remove
and replace the same with new material, such work shall be considered as new
work and a permit shall be obtained and inspection made as provided in this
code.
   (c)   Section R107.3 of the International Residential Code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Section R107.3 Temporary power. The Building Official is authorized to give
permission to temporarily supply and use power in part of an electric
installation before such installation has been fully completed and the final
certificate of completion has been issued. The part covered by the temporary
certificate shall comply with the requirements specified for temporary
lighting, heat or power in the National Electrical Code as adopted in §
4-402 of the city code of ordinances.
   (d)   Section R108.6 of the International Residential Code is hereby added
to read as follows:
Section R108.6 Work commencing before permit issuance. Any person who commences
any work on a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing
system before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to a fee equal
to one half of the permit fee in addition to the required permit fees.
   (e)   Section R112 of the International Residential Code is hereby deleted.
   (f)   Section R302.2 of the International Residential Code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Section R302.2 Townhouses. Each townhouse shall be considered a separate
building and shall be separated by fire resistance rated wall assemblies
meeting the requirements of Section R302.1 for exterior walls.
Exception:
A common 2 hour fire resistance rated wall is permitted for townhouses if such
walls do not contain plumbing or mechanical equipment, ducts or vents in the
cavity of the common wall. Electrical installations shall be installed in
accordance with Chapters 34 through 43. Penetrations of electrical outlet boxes
shall be in accordance with Section R302.4.
   (g)   Section R302.5.1 of the International Residential Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section R302.5.1 Opening Protection. Openings from a private garage directly
into a room used for sleeping purposes shall not be permitted. Other openings
between the garage and residence shall be equipped with solid wood doors not
less than 1-3/8 inches (35mm) in thickness, solid or honeycomb core steel doors
not less than 1-3/8 inches (35mm) thick, or 20 minute fire rated doors.
   (h)   Section R303.1 of the International Residential Code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Section R303.1 Habitable Rooms. All habitable rooms shall have an aggregate
glazing area of not less than 8 percent of the floor area of such rooms.
Natural ventilation shall be through windows, doors, louvers or other approved
openings to the outdoor air. Such openings shall be provided with ready access
or shall otherwise be readily controllable by the building occupants. The
minimum openable area to the outdoors shall be 4 percent of the floor area
being ventilated.
Exceptions:
   1.   Where not required by section R310 and where supply and return air is
provided to the room, glazed openings need not be provided for ventilation.
   2.   Artificial light may be substituted for glazed openings at a rate of 6
foot candles (65 lux) over the entire room at a height of 30 inches (762 mm)
above the floor where such openings are not required by section R310.
   (i)   Section R303.4 of the International Residential Code is hereby
deleted.
   (j)   Section R310.1.1 of the International Residential Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section R310.1.1 Minimum opening area. All emergency escape and rescue openings
shall have a minimum net clear opening of 5.7 square feet.
   (k)   Section R310.2 of the International Residential Code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Section R310.2 Window wells. The minimum horizontal area of the window well
shall be 9 square feet, with a minimum horizontal projection and width of 36
inches. The area of the window well shall allow the emergency escape and rescue
opening to be fully opened. Guards or covers shall be provided to safeguard
against falls into the window well.
Exception:
The ladder or steps required by Section R310.2.1 shall be permitted to encroach
a maximum of 6 inches into the required dimensions of the window well.
   (l)   Section R311.7.5.1 of the International Residential Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section R311.7.5.1 Risers. The maximum riser height shall be 8 inches (203 mm).
The riser shall be measured vertically between leading edges of the adjacent
treads. The greatest riser height within any flight of stairs shall not exceed
the smallest by more than 3/8 inch (9.5 mm). Risers shall be vertical or sloped
from the underside of the nosing of the tread above at an angle not more than
30 degrees (0.51 rad) from the vertical. Open risers are permitted provided
that the opening between the treads does not permit the passage of a 4 inch
diameter (102 mm) sphere.
Exception:
The opening between adjacent treads is not limited on stairs with a total rise
of 30 inches (762 mm) or less.
   (m)   Section R312.1.3 of the International Residential Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section R312.1.3 Guard opening limitations. Open guardrails shall have
intermediate rails or an ornamental pattern such that a sphere 4-1/2 inches
(102 mm) in diameter cannot pass through.
Exceptions:
   1.   The open space between the intermediate rails or ornamental pattern of
guardrails in areas of commercial and industrial-type occupancies which are not
accessible to the public may be such that a sphere 12 inches (305 mm) in
diameter cannot pass through.
   2.   The triangular openings formed by the riser, tread and bottom element
of a guardrail at the open side of a stairway may be of such size that a sphere
6 inches (152 mm) in diameter cannot pass through.
   (n)   Section R312.2.1 of the International Residential Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 312.2.1 Window Sills. In dwelling units, where the opening of an
operable window is located more than 72 inches (1,829 mm) above the finished
grade or surface below, the lowest part of the clear opening of the window
shall be a minimum of 18 inches (457 mm) above the finished floor of the room
in which the window is located. Operable sections of windows shall not permit
openings that allow passage of a 4 inch diameter (102 mm) sphere where such
openings are located within 18 inches (457 mm) of the finished floor unless
such windows are provided with approved guards.
   (o)   Section R313 of the International Residential Code is hereby deleted.
   (p)   Section R501.3 of the International Residential Code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Section R501.3 Fire Protection of Floors. Floor assemblies, not required
elsewhere in this code to be fire resistance rated, shall be provided on the
underside of the floor framing members with a 1/2 inch (12.7 mm) gypsum
wallboard membrane, 5/8 inch (16 mm) wood structural panel membrane, or
equivalent protection. This requirement shall become effective September 1,
2014.
Exceptions:
   1.   Floor assemblies located directly over a space protected by an
automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section P2904, NFPA 13D, or other
approved equivalent sprinkler system.
   2.   Floor assemblies located directly over a crawl space not intended for
storage or fuel fired appliances.
   3.   Portions of floor assemblies may be unprotected when the aggregate area
of the unprotected portions does not exceed 80 square feet per story and are
fireblocked along the perimeter of such unprotected areas in accordance with
section R302.11.1.
   4.   Wood floor assemblies using dimension lumber or structural composite
lumber equal to or greater than 2 inch by 10 inch (50.8 mm by 254 mm) nominal
dimension, or other approved floor assemblies demonstrating equivalent fire
performance.
   (q)   Section R507.2.3 of the international Residential Code is hereby
deleted.
   (r)   Chapter 11 of the International Residential Code is hereby deleted.
   (s)   Section M1503.4 of the International Residential Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section M1503.4 Makeup Air Required. Exhaust hood systems capable of exhausting
in excess of 400 cubic feet per minute shall be provided with makeup air at a
rate approximately equal to the difference between the maximum exhaust rate and
400 cubic feet per minute. Such makeup air systems shall be equipped with a
means of closure and shall automatically be controlled to start and operate
simultaneously with the exhaust system.
   (t)   Section P2603.5.1 of the International Residential Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section P2603.5.1 Sewer Depth. Building sewers shall be a minimum of 34 inches
below grade unless insulated.
   (u)   Section E3601.6.2 of the International Residential Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section E3601.6.2 Service disconnect location. The service disconnecting means
shall be installed either inside or outside of a building or structure at a
readily accessible location nearest the point of entrance of the service
conductors.
Service disconnecting means shall not be installed in bathrooms.
Additionally, an outside service disconnect shall be required when either of
the following conditions exist:
   a.   The distance from the electric meter base to the service panel exceeds
eight (8) lineal feet.
   b.   The distance from the entrance point of the service conductors to the
service panel exceeds three (3) lineal feet.
Each occupant shall have access to the disconnect serving the dwelling unit in
which they reside.
   (v)   Section E3901.ll of the International Residential Code is hereby
deleted.
   (w)   Section E3902.2 of the International Residential Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section E3902.2 Garage and Accessory Building Receptacles. All 125 volt, single
phase, 15 or 20 ampere receptacles installed in garages and grade level
portions of unfinished accessory buildings used for storage or work areas shall
have ground fault circuit interrupter protection for personnel.
Exceptions:
   1.   Receptacles that are not readily accessible.
   2.   A single receptacle or duplex receptacle located within dedicated space
for each appliance that in normal use is not easily moved from one place to
another, and that is cord and plug connected.
   (x)   Section E3902.12 of the International Residential Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section E3902.12 Arc Fault Circuit Interrupter Protection. All branch circuits
that supply 120 volt, single phase, 15 and 20 ampere receptacle outlets in
bedrooms shall be protected by a combination type arc fault circuit interrupter
installed to provide protection of the entire branch circuit.
   (y)   Section E3902.13 of the International Residential Code is hereby
deleted.
   (z)   Section E4002.9 of the International Residential Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section E4002.9 Receptacles in Wet Locations. Where installed in a wet
location, receptacles shall have an enclosure that is weatherproof when the
receptacle cover is closed and an attachment plug cap is not inserted.
Receptacles installed in wet locations shall be a listed weather resistant
type.
   (aa)   Section E4002.10 of the International Residential Code is hereby
deleted.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-305 ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDINGS CODE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference, for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for construction, alteration, addition, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures within the corporate city limits of the City of Wamego, Kansas, that
certain standard existing buildings code known as the International Existing
Buildings Code, 2018 Edition, including Appendices A and C as being recommended
by the International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW 6th Floor,
Washington, DC, 20001, save and except such articles, sections, parts or
portions thereof as hereinafter omitted, deleted, modified or changed. No fewer
than one copy of such publication shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as
adopted by Ord. 1629”, and shall be attached to a copy of this ordinance and
filed with the City Clerk and open for inspection and available to the public
at all reasonable hours. All administrative departments of the city charged
with enforcement of this code shall be supplied, at the cost of the city, such
number of official copies, similarly marked, as may be deemed expedient.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-306 SAME; AMENDMENTS.
   The International Existing Buildings Code, adopted by §
4-305 is hereby changed, altered, modified and otherwise amended as follows:
   (a)   Section 101.1 of the International Existing Buildings Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Existing Building
Code of the City of Wamego, Kansas, herein after known as “this code”.
   (b)   Section 108.4 of the International Existing Buildings Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 108.4 Work commencing before permit issuance. Any person who commences
any work on a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing
system before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to a fee equal
to one-half of the permit fee in addition to the required permit fees.
   (c)   Section 702.4 of the International Existing Buildings Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 702.4 Materials and methods. All new work shall comply with materials
and methods requirements in the National Electrical Code, International
Building Code, International Energy Conservation Code, International Plumbing
Code and International Mechanical Code, as applicable, that specify material
standards, detail of installation and connection, joints, penetrations, and
continuity of any element, component, or system in the building.
   (d)   Section 705 of the International Existing Buildings Code is hereby
deleted.
   (e)   Section 806 of the International Existing Buildings Code is hereby
deleted.
   (f)   Section 808.1 of the International Existing Buildings Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 808.1 New installations. All newly installed electrical equipment and
wiring relating to work done in any work area shall comply with the materials
and methods requirements of Chapter 7.
Exception:
Electrical equipment and wiring in newly installed partitions and ceilings
shall comply with all applicable requirements of the National Electrical Code
as adopted in §
4-402 of the city code of ordinances.
   (g)   Section 808.3.4 of the International Existing Buildings Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 808.3.4 Ground Fault Circuit Interruption. Newly installed receptacle
outlets shall be provided with ground fault circuit interruption as required by
the National Electrical Code as adopted in §
4-402 of the city code of ordinances.
   (h)   Section 808.3.7 of the International Existing Buildings Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 808.3.7 Clearance for equipment. Clearance for electrical service
equipment shall be provided in accordance with the National Electrical Code as
adopted in §
4-402 of the city code of ordinances.
   (i)   Section 906 of the International Existing Buildings Code is hereby
deleted.
   (j)   Section 1008.1 of the International Existing Buildings Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 1008.1 Special occupancies. Where the occupancy of an existing building
or part of an existing building is changed to one of the following special
occupancies as described in the National Electrical Code, the electrical wiring
and equipment of the building or portion thereof that contains the proposed
occupancy shall comply with the applicable requirements of the National
Electrical Code as adopted in §
4-402 of the city code of ordinances whether or not a change of occupancy group
is involved:
   1.   Hazardous locations
   2.   Commercial garages, repair and storage
   3.   Aircraft hangers
   4.   Gasoline dispensing and service stations
   5.   Bulk storage plants
   6.   Spray application, dipping and coating processes
   7.   Health care facilities
   8.   Places of assembly
   9.   Theatres, audience areas of motion picture and television studios, and
similar locations
   10.   Motion picture and television studios and similar locations
   11.   Motion picture projectors
   12.   Agricultural buildings
   (k)   Section 1008.2 of the International Existing Buildings Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 1008.2 Unsafe conditions. Where the occupancy of an existing building
or part of an existing building is changed, all unsafe conditions shall be
corrected without requiring that all parts of the electrical system be brought
up to the current edition of the National Electrical Code as adopted in §
4-402 of the city code of ordinances.
   (l)   Section 1008.3 of the International Existing Buildings Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 1008.3 Service upgrade. Where the occupancy of an existing building or
part of an existing building is changed, electrical service shall be upgraded
to meet the requirements of the National Electrical Code as adopted in §
4-402 of the city code of ordinances, for the new occupancy.
   (m)   Section 1008.4 of the International Existing Buildings Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 1008.4 Number of electrical outlets. Where the occupancy of an existing
building or part of an existing building is changed, the number of electrical
outlets shall comply with the National Electrical Code as adopted in §
4-402 of the city code of ordinances, for the new occupancy.
   (n)   Section 1012.8 of the International Existing Buildings Code is hereby
deleted.
   (o)   Section 1301.2 of the International Existing Buildings Code is hereby
deleted.
   (p)   Sections 105.1.1 and 105.1.2 of said International Existing Buildings
Code are hereby deleted.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-307 BUILDING PERMIT FEE.
   The fee for a building permit to construct, enlarge, alter or repair
buildings and structures as regulated by the International Building Code, the
International Residential Code or the International Existing Buildings Code
adopted under §§
4-301 and
4-303 and
4-305 respectively of this article, shall be $10 per 100 square feet of the
ground level of the building or structure in the case of construction or
enlargement, and of the total area upon each level of any alteration or repair.
The fee herein shall be paid to the city upon obtaining a building permit and
the same shall be credited to the General Fund of the city.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-308 BUILDING PERMITS PRIOR TO PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   A building permit may be issued for any construction in newly developed
areas or in areas presently developed within the city except that no occupancy
of the construction shall take place and no certificate of occupancy permit
shall be issued by the city building inspector until all required public
improvements have been installed and such installation has been approved by the
city building inspector. Public improvements include street, storm drainage,
sanitary sewer, water and electricity.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
ARTICLE 4: ELECTRICAL
Section
   
4-401   Definitions
   
4-402   Adoption of Electrical Code
   
4-403   Same; amendments
   
4-404   Rules and regulations pertaining to new electric wiring and connections
   
4-405   Same; fee
   
4-406   Electrical reinspection fee
   
4-407   Certification of electricians; electrician’s Board of Certification
   
4-408   Same; qualifications
   
4-409   Same; renewal and registration
   
4-410   Same; fees
   
4-411   Electrical requirements; exemption of Public Utility Company
   
4-412   Electric work by owner
§ 4-401 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR. Any person engaged in the business of installing or
repairing electrical wiring and who is qualified, or employs master
electricians who are qualified to serve the public in the installation,
repairing, re-wiring and maintenance of electrical wiring.
   ELECTRICAL WIRING. The installation, repairs, connection, alteration or
replacement of wiring in buildings and structures for the use of electrical
current for electric fixtures, appliances, motors or other apparatus.
   JOURNEYMAN ELECTRICIAN. Any person who holds a legal certificate showing
that he or she is qualified to do electrical wiring under the direction and
supervision of a certified master electrician.
   MASTER ELECTRICIAN. A person who is qualified, certified and equipped to
properly layout, plan, make any installation, repair or maintenance of
electrical wiring, appliances, fixtures, motors and other apparatus requiring
electrical current, and who is or works under the employment of an electrical
contractor.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-402 ADOPTION OF ELECTRICAL CODE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of establishing
standards for the protection of the public health, safety and welfare within
the corporate limits of the City of Wamego, Kansas, that certain electrical
code known as the National Electrical Code (NFPA 70), 2017 Edition, including
Annex A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H and I, a standard of the National Fire Protection
Association, One Batterymarch Park, Quincy, Massachusetts, 02169, save and
except such articles, sections, parts or portions as may be hereinafter
omitted, deleted, modified or changed. No fewer than one copy of such
publication shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as adopted by Ord. 1629”,
and shall be attached to a copy of this ordinance and filed with the City Clerk
and open for inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours.
All administrative departments of the city charged with enforcement of this
code shall be supplied, at the cost of the city, such number of official
copies, similarly marked, as may be deemed expedient.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-403 SAME; AMENDMENTS.
   The National Electrical Code, adopted by §
4-402 is hereby changed, altered, modified and otherwise amended as follows:
   (a)   Article 210.8(A)(2) of the National Electrical Code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Article 210.8(A)(2) Dwelling Units. All 125 volt, single phase, 15 or 20 ampere
receptacles installed in garages and grade level portions of unfinished
accessory buildings used for storage or work areas shall have ground fault
circuit interrupter protection for personnel.
Exceptions:
   1.   Receptacles that are not readily accessible.
   2.   A single receptacle or duplex receptacle located within dedicated space
for each appliance that in normal use is not easily moved from one place to
another, and that is cord and plug connected.
   (b)   Article 210.8(B)(2) of the National Electrical Code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Article 210.8(B)(2) Other Than Dwelling Units. All receptacles that are readily
accessible and do not serve a dedicated appliance.
   (c)   Article 210.12 of the National Electrical Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Article 210.12 Arc Fault Circuit Interrupter Protection.
   a.   Definition. An arc-fault circuit interrupter is a device intended to
provide protection from the effects of arc faults by recognizing
characteristics unique to arcing and by functioning to de-energize the circuit
when an arc fault is detected.
   b.   Dwelling Unit Bedrooms. All branch circuits that supply 125 volt,
single phase, 15 and 20 ampere receptacle outlets installed in dwelling unit
bedrooms shall be protected by an arc-fault circuit interrupter(s) of the
combination type.
   (d)   Article 210.52(1) of the National Electrical Code is hereby deleted.
   (e)   Article 230.70 (A) of the National Electrical Code is hereby amended
to read as follows:
Article 230.70 (A) Location. The service disconnecting means shall be installed
either inside or outside of a building or structure at a readily accessible
location nearest the point of entrance of the service conductors.
Service disconnecting means shall not be installed in bathrooms.
Additionally, an outside service disconnect shall be required when either of
the following conditions exist:
   a.   The distance from the electric meter base to the service panel exceeds
eight (8) lineal feet.
   b.   The distance from the entrance point of the service conductors to the
service panel exceeds three (3) lineal feet.
   (f)   Article 300.5(C) of the National Electrical Code is hereby amended to
read as follows:
Article 300.5(C) Underground Cables Under Buildings. Underground cable
installed under a building shall be in a raceway installed under a building
shall be in a raceway.
   (g)   Article 334.10 of the National Electrical Code is hereby amended to
read as follows:
Article 334.10 Uses Permitted. Type NM, Type NMC, and Type NMS cables shall be
permitted to be used in the following:
   1.   One and two family dwellings.
   2.   Multi-family dwellings permitted to be of Type III, IV and V
construction.
   A)   Type NM. Type NM cable shall be permitted as follows:
      (1)   For both exposed and concealed work in normally dry locations
except as prohibited in Section 334.10(3).
      (2)   To be installed or fished in air voids in masonry block or tile
walls.
   B)   Type NMC. Type NMC cable shall be permitted as follows:
      (1)   For both exposed or concealed work in dry, moist, damp or corrosive
locations, except as prohibited by 334.10(3).
      (2)   In outside and inside walls of masonry block or tile.
   (3)   In a shallow chase in masonry, concrete or adobe protected against
nails or screws by a steel plate at least 1/16 inch thick and covered with
plaster, adobe or similar finish.
   C)   Type NMS. Type NMS cable shall be permitted as follows:
      (1)   For both exposed and concealed work in normally dry locations
except as prohibited by 334.10(3).
      (2)   To be installed or fished in air voids in masonry block or tile
walls.
   (h)   Article 334.12 of the National Electrical Code is hereby amended to
read as follows:
Article 334.12 Uses Not Permitted.
   A)   Types NM, NMC and NMS. Types NM, NMC and NMS cables shall not permitted
as follows:
   (1)   In any structure not specifically permitted in 334.10(1) and
   (2)   As a service entrance cable.
   (3)   In hoistways or on elevators or escalators.
   (4)   Embedded in poured concrete or aggregate.
   B)   Types NM and NMS. Type NM and NMS cables shall not be used under the
following conditions or in the following locations.
   (1)   Where exposed to corrosive fumes or vapors.
   (2)   Where embedded in masonry, concrete, adobe, fill or plaster.
   (3)   In a shallow chase in masonry, concrete, or adobe and covered with
plaster, adobe or similar finish.
   (4)   Where exposed or subject to excessive moisture or dampness.
   (i)   Articles 406.4(D)(4), 406.4(D)(5) and 406.4(D)(6) of the National
Electrical Code are hereby deleted.
   (j)   Article 406.9(B)(1) of the National Electrical code is hereby amended
to read as follows:
Article 406.9(B)(1) 15 and 20 Ampere Receptacles in a Wet Location. 15 and 20
ampere, 125 and 250 volt receptacles installed in a wet location shall have an
enclosure for the receptacle that is weatherproof when the receptacle is
covered (attachment plug cap not inserted and receptacle covers closed). All 15
and 20 ampere 125 and 250 volt non locking type receptacles shall be listed
weather resistant type.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-404 RULES AND REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO NEW ELECTRIC WIRING AND
CONNECTIONS.
   (a)   At a minimum, a two-inch rigid conduit shall be required for an
entrance mast, when extended through the roof.
   (b)   All electrical wiring in a commercial building shall be in rigid
conduit, electrical metallic tubing, metal molding, or flexible conduit.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-405 SAME; FEE.
   The fee for an electric permit to install electric conductors and equipment
as regulated by the National Electrical Code, adopted under §
4-402 of this article, shall be $35. Such fee is payable at the time the
application is submitted for the electric permit, and the same shall be
credited to the General Operating Fund of the city.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-406 ELECTRICAL REINSPECTION FEE.
   (a)   All work done in violation of this article is subject to reinspection
by the City Building Official until such work is approved and found to be in
compliance with the National Electrical Code and other applicable city
regulations.
   (b)   All reinspections required after the time period set by the Building
Official to correct the work found to be in violation shall be subject to a $50
reinspection fee to be paid to the city, and credited to the General Fund of
the city.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-407 CERTIFICATION OF ELECTRICIANS; ELECTRICIAN’S BOARD OF CERTIFICATION.
   The Board shall be comprised of the electrical members from the Code Appeals
Board, and the Building Official. This Board shall have the right to modify and
approve the qualification requirements, as described hereafter, of all
applicants desiring to engage in or work at electrical wiring or electrical
work with their jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-408 SAME; QUALIFICATIONS.
   Following are the qualifications for certification as an electrician in the
city.
   (a)   Any electrician who submitted an application to the city for
certification as a master or journeyman electrician no later than November 14,
1991, and who received approval from the electrician’s Board of Certification
as a grandfathered master or journeyman electrician, shall receive the
corresponding certificate.
   (b)   Any electrician providing proof of passage of the prometrics tests for
master or journeyman electricians shall receive the corresponding certificate.
   (c)   Any electrician who holds a current valid electricians certificate
issued by a board of examiners from a city with a population equal to or
greater than Wamego, and reciprocating with the City of Wamego, and who can
give proof of comparable qualifications as determined by the Building Official,
shall receive a certification (master or journeyman) from the City of Wamego
corresponding to the certification held from the other city.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-409 SAME; RENEWAL AND REGISTRATION.
   (a)   No person shall engage in or work at the electrical business, either
as a master electrician or as a journeyman electrician until such person has
been certified by the City of Wamego and found qualified and competent to
engage in such business provided that a resident or owner may install any
electrical fixture, wire or other item within his or her own home, shop, garage
or other structure without securing a certificate, but a permit must be secured
for such electrical work and such work shall be inspected and approved by the
Building Official and applicable inspection fees paid.
   (b)   (1)   All certificates under this section shall be in effect for two
years until December 31 of even-numbered years and may thereafter be renewed
biennially by payment to the Building Official of a renewal fee and
presentation of 12 clock hours of continuing education of a type acceptable to
the Building Official.
      (2)   All certificates, which are nontransferable, must be registered
with the Building Official not later than January 10 of the year following
expiration, and it is hereby made the duty of each master to see that each
journeyman working for him or her has been registered.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-410 SAME; FEES.
   (a)   The following fees for certificates and renewals of certificates under
this article shall apply:
      (1)   Master electrician certification or renewal, per two-year period:
$50; and
      (2)   Journeyman electrician certification or renewal, per two-year
period: $30.
   (b)   All such fees shall be paid to the Building Official and shall become
a part of the General Fund.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-411 ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS; EXEMPTION OF PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANY.
   Any public utility company operating under a regular franchise shall be
exempt from the requirements of this article relating to certificates,
licenses, bonds, permits and fees for work upon property owned or controlled by
it.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-412 ELECTRIC WORK BY OWNER.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from installing
electrical wiring or equipment within and upon a single-family residence
wherein the owner resides, provided, the owner shall satisfy the Building
Official as to his or her ability to install such electrical wiring, secure a
permit, pay required fees, do work in accordance with this article, and apply
for an inspection and receive a certificate of approval.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
ARTICLE 5: PLUMBING
Section
   
4-501   Definitions
   
4-502   Adoption of the International Plumbing Code
   
4-503   Same; amendments
   
4-504   Plumbing permit fee
   
4-505   Plumbing reinspection fee
   
4-506   Certification of plumbers
   
4-507   Same; qualifications
   
4-508   Same; renewal and registration
   
4-509   Same; fees
   
4-510   Plumbing work by owner
§ 4-501 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JOURNEYMAN PLUMBER. A person who holds a legal certificate issued pursuant
to law showing him or her to be qualified to do plumbing work under the
direction and control of a qualified master plumber.
   MASTER PLUMBER. A person who is qualified, certified and equipped to
properly lay out, plan, install, repair and maintain plumbing.
   PLUMBING. The installation, alteration, repair, relocation, replacement,
addition to and maintenance of plumbing system, defined as water supply and
distribution pipes; plumbing fixtures and traps, water treating or water using
equipment, soil, waste and vent pipes, sanitary and storm sewers, building
drains, in addition to their respective connections, devices and appurtenances
within a structure or premises, except for exterior irrigation systems
installed beyond a backflow prevention device, where required by city code.
   PLUMBING CONTRACTOR. Any person, firm or corporation who is qualified or
employs master plumbers who are qualified to serve the public in the business
of plumbing, and who maintains a place of business.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-502 ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of regulating all
plumbing work done or performed within the corporate city limits of the City of
Wamego, Kansas that certain standard plumbing code known as the International
Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition including appendices B, D, E and F as recommended
by the International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW 6th Floor,
Washington, DC, 20001, save and except such articles, sections, parts, or
portions thereof as are hereinafter omitted, deleted, modified or changed. No
fewer than one copy of such publication shall be marked or stamped “Official
Copy as adopted by Ord. 1629”, and shall be attached to a copy of this
ordinance and filed with the City Clerk and open for inspection and available
to the public at all reasonable hours. All administrative departments of the
city charged with enforcement of this code shall be supplied, at the cost of
the city, such number of official copies, similarly marked, as may be deemed
expedient.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-503 SAME; AMENDMENTS.
   The International Plumbing Code, adopted by §
4-502, is hereby changed, altered, modified or otherwise amended as follows:
   (a)   Section 101.1 of the International Plumbing Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Plumbing Code of
the City of Wamego, Kansas, and hereinafter referred to as “this code”.
   (b)   Section 106.6.2 of the International Plumbing Code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Section 106.6.2 Fee schedule. The fees for all plumbing work requiring permit
shall be as set forth under §
4-504 of the city code.
The fee for reinspection of all plumbing work found to be in violation of this
article shall be as set forth under §
4-505 of the city code.
Each inspection which is not deemed ready for inspection at the scheduled time
shall be considered a failed inspection and subject to reinspection. The
reinspection fee shall be paid within 10 calendar days of the date of the
inspection causing the fee, and prior to a certificate of occupancy being
issued for that project. Subsequent inspections for that permitted project
shall not be conducted until all past due reinspection fees have been paid. The
Building Official shall have the authority to waive reinspection fees as deemed
necessary.
   (c)   Section 106.6.3 of the International Plumbing Code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Section 106.6.3 Fee refunds. The code official shall authorize the refunding of
fees as follows:
   1.   The full amount of any fee paid hereunder that was erroneously paid or
collected.
   2.   Not more than 100% of the permit fee paid when no work has been done
under a permit issued in accordance with this code.
The code official shall not authorize the refunding of any fee paid except upon
written application filed by the original permittee not later than one hundred
eighty days (180) days after the date of fee payment.
   (d)   Section 108.4 of the International Plumbing Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 108.4 Violation penalties. Any person who shall violate a provision of
this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
shall erect, install, alter or repair plumbing work in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the code official, or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment
not exceeding six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that
a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (e)   Section 108.5 of the International Plumbing Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 108.5 Stop work orders. Upon notice from the code official, work on any
plumbing system that is being done contrary to the provisions of this code or
in a dangerous or unsafe manner shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be
in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to the owner’s
agent, or to the person doing the work. The notice shall state the conditions
under which work is authorized to resume. Where an emergency exists, the code
official shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the
work. Any person who shall continue any work in or about the structure after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable
to a fine of not less than one hundred ($100) dollars or more than five hundred
($500) dollars, or by imprisonment not exceeding six months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.
   (f)   Section 109 of said International Plumbing Code is hereby deleted.
   (g)   Section 305.4.1 of the International Plumbing Code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Section 305.4.1 Sewer depth. Building sewers that connect to private sewage
disposal systems shall be a minimum of 34 inches below finished grade at the
point of septic tank connection. Building sewers shall be a minimum of 34
inches below grade.
   (h)   That Section 306.5 of the International Plumbing Code is hereby added
to read as follows:
Section 306.5 Excavation in public way. No person shall excavate or cause
excavation to be made in any street, alley, or public highway in the City of
Wamego, Kansas without first obtaining a permit therefor from the city.
   (i)   That section 306.6 of the International Plumbing Code is hereby added
to read as follows:
Section 306.6 Protection. All excavation of public grounds shall be protected
at all times by approved barricades, warning devices and signing. All
protective and warning devices shall meet city specifications and the “Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices”.
   (j)   Section 502.1 of the International Plumbing Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 502.1 General. Water heaters shall be installed in accordance with the
manufacturer’s installation instructions. Oil fired water heaters shall conform
to the requirements of this code and the International Mechanical Code adopted
in §
4-802 of the city code of ordinances. Electric water heaters shall conform to
the requirements of this code and the provisions of the National Electrical
Code as adopted in §
4-402 of the city code of ordinances. Gas fired water heaters shall conform to
the requirements of the International Fuel Gas Code as adopted in §
4-702 of the city code of ordinances.
   (k)   Section 607.2 of the International Plumbing Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 607.2 Hot or tempered water supply to fixtures. Where the developed
length of hot water piping from the source of hot water supply to the farthest
fixture exceeds 50 feet (15,240 mm), the hot water supply system shall be
provided with a method of maintaining the temperature in accordance with the
International Energy Conservation Code.
   (l)   That section 701.10 of the International Plumbing Code is hereby added
to read as follows:
Section 701.10 Prohibited connection. No roof drains, surface water, subsurface
drainage including interior and exterior foundation drains, or sump pumps,
shall be connected to the sanitary sewer system:
(m)   That section 701.11 of the International Plumbing Code is hereby changed
by adding the following section:
Section 701.11 Connection to public sewer. No house, building, or premises
shall be connected to the public sewer without permit issued by the
administrative authority. All work of laying pipe shall be done by a licensed
drainlayer or licensed plumber, in either case, licensed by the City of Wamego,
Kansas. All connections to the public sewers shall be made through approved
methods and materials only.
   (n)   Section 903.1 of the International Plumbing Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 903.1 Roof extension. All open vent pipes that extend through a roof
shall be terminated at least six inches (153 mm) above the roof, except that
where a roof is to be used for any purpose other than weather protection, the
vent extensions shall be run at least seven feet (2134 mm) above the roof.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-504 PLUMBING PERMIT FEE.
   The fee for a plumbing permit to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair,
remove, convert or replace any plumbing system, the installation of which is
regulated by the International Plumbing Code, adopted under §
4-502 of this article shall be $25. Such fee is payable at the time the
application is submitted for the plumbing permit, and the same shall be
credited to the General Operating Fund of the city.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-505 PLUMBING REINSPECTION FEE.
   All work done in violation of this article is subject to reinspection by the
City Building Official until such work is approved and found to be in
compliance with the International Plumbing Code and any other applicable city
regulations. All reinspections required after the time period set by the
Building Official to correct the work found to be in violation shall be subject
to a $50 reinspection fee to be paid to the city, and credited to the General
Fund of the city.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-506 CERTIFICATION OF PLUMBERS.
   The Board shall be comprised of the plumbing members from the Code Appeals
Board and the Building Official. This Board shall have the right to modify and
approve the qualification requirements for plumber certification, of all
applicants desiring to engage in or work at plumbing within the city. The Board
also shall have the power to suspend for a definite period or to revoke, after
a hearing, the certificate of any plumber, for violation of rules and
regulations governing plumbing work or for other violations of this article.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-507 SAME; QUALIFICATIONS.
   Following are the qualifications for certification as a plumber in the city.
   (a)   Any plumber who submitted an application to the city for certification
as a master or journeyman plumber no later than November 14, 1991, and who
received approval from the plumber’s Board of Certification as a grandfathered
master or journeyman plumber, shall receive the corresponding certificate.
   (b)   Any plumber providing proof of passage of the prometrics tests for
master or journeyman plumbers shall receive the corresponding certificate.
   (c)   Any plumber who holds a current valid plumber certificate, issued by a
board of examiners from a city with a population equal to or greater than
Wamego, and reciprocating with the City of Wamego, and who can give proof of
comparable qualifications as determined by the Building Official, shall receive
a certificate (master or journeyman) from the city corresponding to the
certification held from the other city.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-508 SAME; RENEWAL AND REGISTRATION.
   (a)   No person shall engage in or work at the plumbing business, either as
a master plumber or as a journeyman plumber until such person has been
certified by the city and found qualified and competent to engage in such
business provided that a resident or owner may install any plumbing fixture, or
pipe, or other item within his or her own home, shop, garage or other structure
without securing a certificate, but a permit must be secured for such plumbing
work and such work shall be inspected and approved by the Building Official and
applicable inspection fees paid.
   (b)   All certificates under this section shall be in effect for two years
until December 31 of even-numbered years and may thereafter be renewed
biennially by payment to the Building Official of a renewal fee and
presentation of 12 clock hours of continuing education of a type acceptable to
the Building Official. All certificates, which are nontransferable, must be
registered with the Building Official not later than January 10 of the year
following expiration, and it is hereby made the duty of each master to see that
each journeyman working for him or her has been registered.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-509 SAME; FEES.
   (a)   The following fees for certification and renewals of certificates
under this article shall apply:
      (1)   Master plumber certification or renewal, per two-year period: $50;
and
      (2)   Journeyman plumber certification or renewal, per two-year period:
$30.
   (b)   All such fees shall be paid to the Building Official and shall become
a part of the General Fund.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-510 PLUMBING WORK BY OWNER.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from installing a
plumbing system within or upon a single-family residence wherein the owner
resides; provided, the owner shall satisfy the Building Official as to his or
her ability to install such plumbing system secure a permit, pay required fees,
do work in accordance with this article, and apply for an inspection and
receive a certificate of approval.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
ARTICLE 6: DRAINLAYING
Section
   
4-601   Definitions
   
4-602   Drainlaying; reference to the International Plumbing Code
   
4-603   Same; connection to the public sewer
   
4-604   Same; sewer permit fee
   
4-605   Same; reinspection; fee
   
4-606   Certification of drainlayers; plumber’s Board of Certification
   
4-607   Same; qualifications
   
4-608   Same; renewal and registration
   
4-609   Same; fee
   
4-610   Drainlaying work by owner
§ 4-601 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRAINLAYING. Laying of sewer laterals from the public sewer to a point not
less than two foot from the foundation walls of the building to be drained.
   DRAINLAYING CONTRACTOR. Any person, firm or corporation who is qualified or
employs master drainlayers who are qualified to serve the public in the
business of drainlaying and who maintains a place of business. A plumbing
contractor is considered to be a DRAINLAYING CONTRACTOR.
   JOURNEYMAN DRAINLAYER. A person holding a certificate authorizing him or her
to work as a drainlayer under the control of a master drainlayer. A person
holding a certificate as a journeyman plumber is considered to be a JOURNEYMAN
DRAINLAYER.
   MASTER DRAINLAYER. A person who is qualified, certified and equipped to
properly lay out, plan, install, repair and maintain a drainlaying
installation. A person holding a certificate as a master plumber is considered
to be a MASTER DRAINLAYER.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-602 DRAINLAYING; REFERENCE TO THE INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE.
   The International Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition, adopted under §
4-502 of this chapter, as amended under §
4-503 of this chapter, shall regulate the design, construction, quality of
materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, location, replacement,
addition to, use or maintenance of drainlaying installation in the city,
provide for the issuance of permits, collection of fees and application of
penalties therefor.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-603 SAME; CONNECTION TO THE PUBLIC SEWER.
   No house, building or premises shall be connected with the public sewer
without permits therefor issued by the Building Official. All connections of
building sewers to the public sewers shall be made through “Y” connections, if
available. Where no branch is available in the public sewer line and with the
approval of the Building Official, a neat hole may be cut in the public sewer
to receive the building sewer connection with entry in the downstream direction
at an angle of about 45 degrees. The invert of the building sewer at the point
of connection shall be at a point four inches or more above the invert of
public sewer. Where possible, all connections shall be made by the use of a
saddle and a smooth, neat joint shall be made and the connection made secure
and watertight by incasement in concrete; provided, that a 45 degree factory-
made “L” may be used to make such a connection with the spigot end cut off as
not to extend past the inner surface of the public sewer, with the approval of
the Building Official. All taps and connections into the public sewer lateral
shall be inspected and approved by the Building Official before the work is
covered.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-604 SAME; SEWER PERMIT FEE.
   The fee for a sewer permit to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove
or convert any drainlaying system, the installation of which is regulated by
the International Plumbing Code, adopted under §
4-502 of this chapter is $25. Such fee is payable at the time the application
is submitted for the sewer permit, and the same shall be credited to the
General Operating Fund of the city.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-605 SAME; REINSPECTION; FEE.
   All work done in violation of this article is subject to reinspection by the
City Building Official until such work is approved and found to be in
compliance with the International Plumbing Code and any other applicable city
regulations. All reinspections required after the time period set by the
Building Official to correct the work found to be in violation shall be subject
to a $50 reinspection fee to paid to the city, and credited to the General Fund
of the city.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-606 CERTIFICATION OF DRAINLAYERS; PLUMBER’S BOARD OF CERTIFICATION.
   The plumber’s Board of Certification, established under §
4-506 of this chapter, shall have the right to modify and approve the
qualification requirements for drainlayer certification, of all applicants
desiring to engage in or work at drainlaying within the city. The Board also
shall have the power to suspend for a definite period or to revoke after a
hearing, the certificate of any drainlayer, for violation of rules and
regulations governing drainlaying or for other violations of this article.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-607 SAME; QUALIFICATIONS.
   Following are the qualifications for certification as a drainlayer in the
city.
   (a)   Any drainlayer who submitted an application to the city for
certification as a master or journeyman drainlayer no later than November 14,
1991, and who received approval from the plumber’s Board of Certification as a
grandfathered master or journeyman drainlayer, shall receive the corresponding
certificate.
   (b)   Any plumber or drainlayer providing proof of passage of the prometrics
tests for master or journeyman plumbers shall receive the corresponding
drainlaying certificate, however, the corresponding plumber’s certificate shall
indicate qualification as a drainlayer.
   (c)   Any plumber or drainlayer who holds a current valid plumber or
drainlayer certificate, issued by a board of examiners from a city with a
population equal to or greater than Wamego, and reciprocating with the City of
Wamego, and who can give proof of comparable qualification as determined by the
Building Official, shall receive a certification (master or journeyman) from
the city corresponding to the certification held from the other city.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-608 SAME; RENEWAL AND REGISTRATION.
   (a)   No person shall engage in or work at the drainlaying business, either
as a master drainlayer or as a journeyman drainlayer until such person has been
certified by the City of Wamego and found qualified and competent to engage in
such business provided that a resident or owner may install any drainlaying
system, or other item within his or her own home, shop, garage or other
structure without securing a certificate, but a permit must be secured for such
drainlaying work and such work shall be inspected and approved by the Building
Official and applicable inspection fees paid.
   (b)   All certificates under this section shall be in effect for two years
until December 31 of even- numbered years and may thereafter be renewed
biennially by payment to the Building Official of a renewal fee. All
certificates, which are nontransferable, must be registered with the Building
Official not later than January 10 of the year following expiration, and it is
hereby made the duty of each master to see that each journeyman working for him
or her has been registered.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-609 SAME; FEE.
   (a)   The following fees for certificates and renewals of certificate under
this article shall apply:
      (1)   Master drainlayer certification or renewal, per two-year period:
$50; and
      (2)   Journeyman drainlayer certification or renewal, per two-year
period: $30.
   (b)   All such fees shall be paid to the Building Official and shall become
a part of the General Fund.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-610 DRAINLAYING WORK BY OWNER.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from installing a
drainlaying system upon a single-family property wherein the owner resides;
provided, the owner shall satisfy the Building Official as to his or her
ability to install such drainlaying system, secure a permit, pay required fees,
do work in accordance with this article, and apply for an inspection and
receive a certificate of approval.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
ARTICLE 7: GAS FITTING
Section
   
4-701   Definitions
   
4-702   Adoption fo the International Fuel Gas Code
   
4-703   Same; amendments
   
4-704   Gas fitting permit fee
   
4-705   Natural gas connection to mobile homes
   
4-706   Gas piping system; reinspection; fee
   
4-707   Certification of gas fitters; gas fitter’s Board of Certification
   
4-708   Same; qualifications
   
4-709   Same; renewal and registration
   
4-710   Same; fees
   
4-711   Gas fittings by owner
§ 4-701 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GAS FITTING. The installation of fuel gas piping systems, and related
accessories.
   GAS FITTING CONTRACTOR. Any person, firm or corporation who is qualified or
employs master gas fitters who are qualified to serve the public in the
business of gas fitting, and who maintains a place of business.
   JOURNEYMAN GAS FITTER. A person holding a certificate authorizing him or her
to work as a gas fitter under the control of a master gas fitter.
   MASTER GAS FITTER. A person who is qualified, certified and equipped to
properly lay out, plan, install, repair and maintain a fuel gas piping system.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-702 ADOPTION FO THE INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of regulating all
fuel gas work done or performed within the corporate city limits of the City of
Wamego, Kansas that certain standard fuel gas code known as the International
Fuel Gas Code, 2018 Edition including appendices A, B and C as recommended by
the International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW 6th Floor,
Washington, DC, 20001, save and except such articles, sections, parts, or
portions thereof as are hereinafter omitted, deleted, modified or changed. No
fewer than one copy of such publication shall be marked or stamped “Official
Copy as adopted by Ord. 1629”, and shall be attached to a copy of this
ordinance and filed with the City Clerk and open for inspection and available
to the public at all reasonable hours. All administrative departments of the
city charged with enforcement of this code shall be supplied, at the cost of
the city, such number of official copies, similarly marked, as may be deemed
expedient.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-703 SAME; AMENDMENTS.
   The International Fuel Gas Code, adopted by §
4-702, is hereby changed, altered, modified and otherwise amended as follows:
   (a)   Section 101.1 of the International Fuel Gas Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Fuel Gas Code of
Wamego, Kansas, hereafter referred to as “this code”.
   (b)   Section 106.6.2 of the International Fuel Gas Code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Section 106.6.2 Fee Schedule. The fees for all fuel gas work requiring a permit
shall be as set forth under §
4-704 of the city code.
The fee for reinspection of all gas fitting work found to be in violation of
this article shall be as set forth under §
4-706 of the city code.
Each inspection which is not deemed ready for inspection at the scheduled time
shall be considered a failed inspection and subject to reinspection. The
reinspection fee shall be paid within ten calendar days of the date of the
inspection causing the fee, and prior to a certificate of occupancy being
issued for that project. Subsequent inspections for that permitted project
shall not be conducted until all past due reinspection fees have been paid. The
Building Official shall have the authority to waive reinspection fees as deemed
necessary.
   (c)   Section 106.6.3 of the International Fuel Gas Code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Section 106.6.3 Fee refunds. The code official shall authorize the refunding of
fees as follows:
   1.   The full amount of any fee paid hereunder that was erroneously paid or
collected.
   2.   Not more than 100% of the permit fee paid when no work has been done
under a permit issued in accordance with this code.
The code official shall not authorize the refunding of any fee paid except upon
written application filed by the original permittee not later than one hundred
eighty days (180) days after the date of fee payment.
   (d)   Section 108.4 of the International Fuel Gas Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 108.4 Violation penalties. Any person who shall violate a provision of
this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
shall erect, install, alter or repair work in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the code official, or of a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500)
or by imprisonment not exceeding one hundred eighty days (180), or by both such
fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (e)   Section 108.5 of International Fuel Gas Code is hereby changed to read
as follows:
Section 108.5 Stop work orders. Upon notice from the code official, work that
is being done contrary to the provisions of this code or in a dangerous or
unsafe manner shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and
shall be given to the owner of the property, or to the owner’s agent, or to the
person doing the work. The notice shall state the conditions under which work
is authorized to resume. Where an emergency exists, the code official shall not
be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work. Any person who
shall continue any work in or about the structure after having been served with
a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to
remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine of not less
than one hundred ($100) dollars or more than five hundred ($500) dollars.
   (f)   Section 109 of the International Fuel Gas Code is hereby deleted.
   (g)   Section 309.2 of the International Fuel Gas Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 309.2 Connections. Electrical connections between equipment and the
building wiring, including the grounding of the equipment, shall conform to the
National Electrical Code as adopted in §
4-402 of the city code of ordinances.
   (h)   Section 407.2 of the International Fuel Gas Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 407.2 Design and installation. Piping shall be supported with pipe
hooks, pipe straps, bands, brackets, hangers or building structural components,
suitable for the size of piping, of adequate strength and quality, and located
at intervals so as to prevent or damp out excessive vibration. Piping shall be
anchored to prevent undue strains on connected appliances and shall not be
supported by other piping. Pipe hangers and supports shall conform to the
requirements of MSS SP-58 and shall be spaced in accordance with Section 415.
Supports, hangers and anchors shall be installed so as not to interfere with
the free expansion and contraction of the piping between anchors. All parts of
the supporting equipment shall be designed and installed so they will not be
disengaged by movements of the supported piping.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-704 GAS FITTING PERMIT FEE.
   The fee for a gas fitting permit to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair,
relocate, replace add to or maintain any fuel gas system, the installation of
which is regulated by the International Fuel Gas Code, adopted under §
4-702 of this article, shall be $25. Such fee is payable at the time the
application is submitted for the gas fitting permit, and the same shall be
credited to the General Fund of the city.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-705 NATURAL GAS CONNECTION TO MOBILE HOMES.
   Natural gas may be connected to a mobile home providing the following
procedure and safety regulations are complied with:
   (a)   All provisions of this article;
   (b)   Mobile homes shall be solidly blocked with jacks or suitable blocking
with open spaces not to exceed ten feet;
   (c)   Mobile homes shall be anchored to prohibit moveability with not less
than four anchors;
   (d)   An iron-bodied, brass core shut-off cock having not less than one inch
thread size shall be placed on the riser as near as possible above ground
level; and
   (e)   The connector from the break-away nipple to the mobile home shall be
approved A.G.A. flexible connector (self-identified) not smaller than three-
fourths inch I.D. size and not exceeding six feet in length.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-706 GAS PIPING SYSTEM; REINSPECTION; FEE.
   (a)   All work done in violation of this article is subject to reinspection
by the City Building Official until such work is approved and found to be in
compliance with the International Fuel Gas Code and any other applicable city
regulations.
   (b)   All reinspections required after the time period set by the Building
Official to correct the work found to be in violation shall be subject to a $50
reinspection fee to be paid to the city, and credited to the General Fund of
the city.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-707 CERTIFICATION OF GAS FITTERS; GAS FITTER’S BOARD OF CERTIFICATION.
   The Board shall be comprised of the gas fitter members from the Code Appeals
Board and the Building Official. This Board shall have the right to modify and
approve the qualification requirements for gas fitter certification, of all
applicants desiring to engage in or work at gas fitting within the city. The
Board also shall have the power to suspend for a definite period or to revoke,
after a hearing, the certificate of any gas fitter, for violation of rules and
regulations governing gas fitting or for other violations of this article.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-708 SAME; QUALIFICATIONS.
   Following are the qualifications for certifications as a gas fitter in the
city.
   (a)   Any gas fitter who submitted an application to the city for
certification as a master or journeyman gas fitter no later than November 14,
1991, and who received approval from the gas fitter’s Board of Certification as
a grandfathered master or journeyman shall receive the corresponding
certificate.
   (b)   Any gas fitter providing proof of passage of the prometrics tests for
master or journeyman gas fitters shall receive the corresponding gas fitter’s
certificate.
   (c)   Any gas fitter who holds a current valid gas fitter’s certificate,
issued by a board of examiners from a city with a population equal to or
greater than Wamego, and reciprocating with the City of Wamego, and who can
give proof of comparable qualifications as determined by the Building Official,
shall receive a certification (master or journeyman) from the city
corresponding to the certification held from the other city.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-709 SAME; RENEWAL AND REGISTRATION.
   (a)   No person shall engage in or work at the gas fitting business, either
as a master gas fitter or as a journeyman gas fitter until such person has been
certified by the city and found qualified and competent to engage in such
business; provided that a resident or owner may install any gas piping, valve
or other item within his or her own home, shop, garage or other structure
without securing a certificate, but a permit must be secured for such gas
fitting work and such work shall be inspected and approved by the Building
Official and applicable inspection fees paid.
   (b)   All certificates under this section shall be in effect for two years
until December 31 of even- numbered years and may thereafter be renewed
biennially by payment to the Building Official of a renewal fee and
presentation of 12 clock hours of continuing education of a type acceptable to
the Building Official. All certificates, which are nontransferable, must be
registered with the Building Official not later than January 10 of the year
following expiration, and it is hereby made the duty of each master to see that
each journeyman working for him or her has been registered.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-710 SAME; FEES.
   (a)   The following fees for certificates and renewals of certificates under
this article shall apply:
      (1)   Master gas fitter certificates or renewal, per two-year period:
$50; and
      (2)   Journeyman gas fitter certification or renewal, per two-year
period: $30.
   (b)   All such fees shall be paid to the Building Official and shall become
a part of the General Fund.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-711 GAS FITTINGS BY OWNER.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from installing a
fuel gas system within or upon a residence wherein the owner resides; provided,
the owner shall satisfy the Building Official as to his or her ability to
install such fuel gas system, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in
accordance with this article, and apply for an inspection and receive a
certificate of approval.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
ARTICLE 8: MECHANICAL
Section
   
4-801   Definitions
   
4-802   Adoption of the International Mechanical Code
   
4-803   Same; amendments
   
4-804   Mechanical permit fee
   
4-805   Same; reinspection; fee
   
4-806   Certification of mechanics; mechanic’s Board of Certification
   
4-807   Same; qualifications
   
4-808   Same; renewal and registration
   
4-809   Same; fees
   
4-810   Mechanical work by owner
§ 4-801 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MECHANICAL CONTRACTOR. Any person, firm or corporation who is qualified or
employ mechanical masters who are qualified to serve the public in the business
of mechanical work and maintains a place of business.
   MECHANICAL JOURNEYMAN. A person who holds a legal certificate issued
pursuant to law showing him or her to be qualified to do mechanical work under
the direction and control of a qualified mechanical master.
   MECHANICAL MASTER. A person who is qualified, certified and equipped to
properly lay out and plan the installation, repairs, and maintenance of
mechanical work.
   MECHANICAL WORK. All work dealing with heating, ventilation, cooling,
refrigeration systems, incinerators and other heat-producing appliances that
are regulated by the Uniform Mechanical Code.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-802 ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of regulating all
mechanical work done or performed within the corporate city limits of the City
of Wamego, Kansas that certain standard mechanical code known as the
International Mechanical Code, 2018 Edition, including Appendix A, as
recommended by the International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW 6th
Floor, Washington, DC, 20001, save and except such articles, sections, parts or
portions as may be hereinafter omitted, deleted, modified or changed. No fewer
than one copy of such publication shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as
adopted by Ord. 1629”, and shall be attached to a copy of this ordinance and
filed with the City Clerk and open for inspection and available to the public
at all reasonable hours. All administrative departments of the city charged
with enforcement of this code shall be supplied, at the cost of the city, such
number of official copies, similarly marked, as may be deemed expedient.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-803 SAME; AMENDMENTS.
   The International Mechanical Code, adopted by §
4-802, is hereby changed, altered, modified and otherwise amended as follows:
   (a)   Section 101.1 of the International Mechanical Code is hereby amended
to read as follows:
Section 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Mechanical Code of
City of Wamego, Kansas, hereinafter referred to as “this code”.
   (b)   Section 106.5.2 of the International Mechanical Code is hereby amended
to read as follows:
Section 106.5.2 Fee schedule. The fees for mechanical work shall be as set
forth under § 4-804 of the Wamego City Code.
The fee for reinspection of all mechanical work found to be in violation of
this article shall be as set forth under §
4-805 of the city code.
Each inspection which is not deemed ready for inspection at the scheduled time
shall be considered a failed inspection and subject to reinspection. The
reinspection fee shall be paid within ten calendar days of the date of the
inspection causing the fee, and prior to a certificate of occupancy being
issued for that project. Subsequent inspections for that permitted project
shall not be conducted until all past due reinspection fees have been paid. The
Building Official shall have the authority to waive reinspection fees as deemed
necessary.
   (c)   That Section 106.5.3 of the International Mechanical Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:
Section 106.5.3 Fee refunds. The code official shall authorize the refunding of
fees as follows:
   1.   The full amount of any fee paid hereunder which was erroneously paid or
collected.
   2.   Not more than 100% of the permit fee paid when no work has been done
under a permit issued in accordance with this code.
The code official shall not authorize the refunding of any fee paid, except
upon written application filed by the original permittee not later than one
hundred eighty days (180) days after the date of fee payment.
   (d)   Section 108.4 of the International Mechanical Code is hereby amended
to read as follows:
Section 108.4 Violation penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of
this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
shall erect, install, alter or repair mechanical work in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the code official, or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars
($500) or by imprisonment not exceeding one hundred eighty days (180) days, or
by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues shall
be deemed a separate offense.
   (e)   Section 108.5 of the International Mechanical Code is hereby amended
to read as follows:
Section 108.5 Stop work orders. Upon notice from the code official that
mechanical work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code or in a
dangerous or unsafe manner, such work shall immediately cease. Such notice
shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to the
owner’s agent, or to the person doing the work. The notice shall state the
conditions under which work is authorized to resume. Where an emergency exists,
the code official shall not be required to give a written notice prior to
stopping the work. Any person who shall continue any work on the system after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable
to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100) or more than five hundred
dollars ($500).
   (f)   Section 109 of the International Mechanical Code is hereby deleted.
   (g)   Section 301.10 of the International Mechanical Code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Section 301.10 Electrical. Electrical wiring, controls and connections to
equipment and appliances regulated by this code shall be in accordance with the
National Electrical Code as adopted in § 4-402 of the city code of ordinances.
   (h)   Section 505.2 of the International Mechanical code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Section 505.2 Makeup air required. Exhaust hood systems capable of exhausting
in excess of 400 cubic feet per minute shall be provided with makeup air at a
rate approximately equal to the difference between the exhaust air rate and 400
cubic feet per minute where other systems exist that may be affected by the
exhaust hood system. Such makeup air systems shall be equipped with a means of
closure and shall be automatically controlled to start and operate
simultaneously with the exhaust system.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-804 MECHANICAL PERMIT FEE.
   The fee for a mechanical permit to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair,
remove, convert or replace any mechanical system the installation of which is
regulated by the International Mechanical Code, adopted under §
4-802 of this article, shall be $25. Such fee is payable at the time the
application is submitted for the mechanical permit, and the same shall be
credited to the General Operating Fund of the city.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-805 SAME; REINSPECTION; FEE.
   (a)   All work done in violation of this article is subject to reinspection
by the City Building Official until such work is approved and found to be in
compliance with the International Mechanical Code and any other applicable city
regulations.
   (b)   All reinspections required after the time period set by the Building
Official to correct the work found to be in violation shall be subject to a $50
reinspection fee to be paid to the city, and credited to the General Fund of
the city.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-806 CERTIFICATION OF MECHANICS; MECHANIC’S BOARD OF CERTIFICATION.
   (a)   The Board shall have the right to modify and approve the qualification
requirements for mechanic certification, of all applicants desiring to engage
in or perform mechanical work within the city.
   (b)   The Board also shall have the power to suspend for a definite period
or to revoke, after a hearing, the certificate of any mechanic, for violation
of rules and regulations governing mechanical work or for other violations of
this article.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-807 SAME; QUALIFICATIONS.
   Following are the qualifications for certification as a mechanic in the
city.
   (a)   Any mechanic who submitted an application to the city for
certification as a master or journeyman mechanic no later that November 14,
1991, and who received approval from the mechanic’s Board of Certification as a
grandfathered master or journeyman mechanic, shall receive the corresponding
certificate.
   (b)   Any mechanic providing proof of passage of the prometrics tests for
master or journeyman mechanics shall receive the corresponding certificate.
   (c)   Any mechanic who holds a current valid mechanical certificate issued
by a board of examiners from a city with a population equal to or greater than
Wamego, and reciprocating with the City of Wamego and who can give proof of
comparable qualifications as determined by the Building Official, shall receive
a certification (master or journeyman) from the City corresponding to the
certification held from the other city.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-808 SAME; RENEWAL AND REGISTRATION.
   (a)   No person shall engage in or work at the mechanical business either as
a master mechanic or as a journeyman mechanic until such person has been
certified by the city and found qualified and competent to engage in such
business provided that a resident or owner may install any mechanical equipment
of other item with in her own home, shop, garage, or other structure with
securing a certificate, but a permit must be secured for such mechanical work
and such work shall be inspected and approved by the Building Official and
applicable inspection fees paid.
   (b)   (1)   All certificates under this section shall be in effect for two
years until December 31 of even- numbered years and may thereafter be renewed
biennially by payment to the Building Official of a renewal fee and
presentation of 12 clock hours of continuing education of a type acceptable to
the Building Official.
      (2)   All certificates, which are nontransferable, must be registered
with the Building Official not later than January 10 of the year following
expiration, and it is hereby made the duty of each master to see that each
journeyman working for him or her has been registered.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-809 SAME; FEES.
   (a)   The following fees for mechanical certificates and renewals of
certificates under this article shall apply:
      (1)   Mechanical master certification or renewal, per two-year period:
$50; and
      (2)   Mechanical journeyman certification or renewal, per two-year
period: $30.
   (b)   All such fees shall be paid to the Building Official and shall become
a part of the General Fund.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-810 MECHANICAL WORK BY OWNER.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from installing a
mechanical system within or upon a single-family residence wherein the owner
resides; provided, the owner shall satisfy the Building Official as to his or
her ability to install such mechanical system, secure a permit, pay required
fees, do work in accordance with this article, and apply for an inspection and
receive a certificate of approval.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
ARTICLE 9: ENERGY CONSERVATION
Section
   
4-901   Adoption of the International Energy Conservation Code
   
4-902   Same; amendments
§ 4-901 ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference as provided by law, that certain
document, marked and designated as the International Energy Conservation Code,
2000 Edition Third Printing (and subsequent errata for the Third Printing
updated March 29, 2002), as published by the International Code Council, Inc.,
three copies of which are on file in the office of the City Clerk, for
regulating the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use or maintenance of the building envelope, mechanical, lighting and power
systems in the City of Wamego; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
conditions and terms in such International Energy Conservation Code, are hereby
referred to, adopted and made a part of the article as if fully set out herein,
with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes as set forth under § 4-
902 of this article.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-902 SAME; AMENDMENTS.
   The International Energy Conservation Code, adopted under §
4-901 is hereby amended as follows:
   (a)   101.1 Title. - insert [the City of Wamego] at [NAME of JURISDICTION].
   (b)   104.1 General. - second sentence shall read as follows:
“The construction documents and designs submitted under the provisions of
Chapter 4 shall be prepared by a registered design professional except as
provided under K.S.A. 74-7033.”
   (c)   Table 302.1 Exterior Design Conditions. - complete as follows:
 
Condition                    Value
Winter, design dry-bulb (°F)+3°
Summer, design dry-bulb (°F)95°
Summer, design wet-bulb (°F)77°
Degree days heating          5,265
Degree days cooling          3,880
Climate zone                 11B
 
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
ARTICLE 10: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
   
4-1001   Adoption of the International Property Maintenance Code
   
4-1002   Same; amendments
§ 4-1001 ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of establishing
standards for the protection of the public health, safety and welfare in all
existing structures within the corporate city limits of the City of Wamego,
Kansas, that standard property maintenance code known as the International
Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition, including Appendix A, as recommended
by the International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW 6th Floor,
Washington, DC, 20001, save and except such articles, sections, parts or
portions as may be hereinafter omitted, deleted, modified or changed. No fewer
than one copy of such publication shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as
adopted by Ord. 1629”, and shall be attached to a copy of this ordinance and
filed with the City Clerk and open for inspection and available to the public
at all reasonable hours. All administrative departments of the city charged
with enforcement of this code shall be supplied, at the cost of the city, such
number of official copies, similarly marked, as may be deemed expedient.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-1002 SAME; AMENDMENTS.
   The International Property Maintenance Code, adopted by §
4-1001, is hereby changed, altered, modified and otherwise amended as follows:
   (a)   Section 101.1 of the International Property Maintenance Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the International
Property Maintenance Code, of the City of Wamego, Kansas, hereinafter referred
to as the International Property Maintenance Code or “this code”.
   (b)   Section 102.3 of the International Property Maintenance Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 102.3 Application of other codes. Repairs, alterations, additions to a
structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
International Building, Residential, Plumbing, Mechanical, Fuel Gas, Existing
Buildings or National Electrical Codes as applicable and as adopted by the City
of Wamego, Kansas.
   (c)   Section 103.5 of the International Property Maintenance Code is hereby
deleted.
   (d)   Section 106.4 of the International Property Maintenance Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 106.4 Penalty. Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any
provision of this code shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of
not more than five hundred dollars ($500) or imprisonment for a term not to
exceed six months, or by both fine and imprisonment, at the discretion of the
court. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served, in
accordance with the terms and provisions hereof, shall be deemed a separate
offense.
   (e)   Section 111.1 of the International Property Maintenance Code is hereby
deleted.
   (f)   Sections 111.2.1, 111.2.2, 111.2.3, 111.2.4 and 111.2.5 of the
International Property Maintenance Code are hereby deleted.
   (g)   Section 112.4 of the International Property Maintenance Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 112.4 Failure to Comply. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable
to a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500) or imprisonment for a
term not to exceed one hundred eighty days (180) days, or by both fine and
imprisonment, at the discretion of the court. Each day that a violation
continues after due notice has been served, in accordance with the terms and
provisions hereof, shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (h)   Section 202 of the International Property Maintenance Code is hereby
changed to add the following definition:
Family: Either (a) an individual or two or more persons related by blood,
marriage, or adoption, or under foster care established by governmental action,
living together as a single housekeeping unit; or (b) a group of not more than
four persons some of which are not related by blood, marriage or adoption,
living together as a single housekeeping unit. There shall be a rebuttable
presumption that or more people living together as a single housekeeping unit
are not a family.
   (i)   Section 202 of the International Property Maintenance Code is hereby
changed to amend the following definition:
Dwelling Unit: A single unit providing complete, independent living facilities
for one family, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating,
cooking and sanitation.
   (j)   Section 302.4 of the International Property Maintenance Code is hereby
deleted.
   (k)   Section 302.8 of the International Property Maintenance Code is hereby
deleted.
   (l)   Section 304.14 of the International Property Maintenance Code is
hereby changed to read as follows:
Section 304.14 Insect Screens. During the period from April 1 to December 1,
every door, window and other outside opening used or required for ventilation
purposes serving any building containing habitable rooms, food preparation
areas, food service areas, or any areas where products used in food for human
consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged, or stored, shall be supplied
with approved tightly fitting screens of not less than 16 mesh per inch.
   (m)   Section 304,18.1 of the International Property Maintenance Code is
hereby changed to read as follows:
Section 304.18.1 Doors. All exterior doors, door assemblies and hardware shall
be maintained in good condition. Locks at all entrances to dwelling units,
rooming units and guestrooms shall tightly secure the door. Locks on means of
egress doors shall be in accordance with Section 702.3.
   (n)   Section 402.1 of the International Property Maintenance Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 402.1 Habitable Spaces. Every habitable space shall have at least one
window of approved size facing directly to the outdoors or to a court. The
minimum total window area, measured between stops, for every habitable space
shall be five square feet, except when artificial light and ventilation may be
provided in accordance with the provisions of the building or residential code.
Whenever walls or other portions of a structure face a window of any room and
such obstructions are located less than three feet from the window and extend
to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, such a window shall not be
deemed to face directly to the outdoors not to a court and shall not be
included as contributing to the required minimum total window area for the
room.
   (o)   Section 402.2 of the International Property Maintenance Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 402.2 Common halls and stairways. Every common hall and stairway, other
than in one and two-family dwellings, shall be capable of being lighted at all
times with at least a 60 watt standard incandescent light bulb or equivalent
(sufficient natural light shall serve as an equivalent) for each 200 square
feet (19 square meters) of floor area, provided that the spacing between lights
shall not be greater than 30 feet (9,144 mm). Every exterior stairway shall be
illuminated with a minimum of one foot candle (11 lux) at floors, landings and
treads.
   (p)   Section 404.2 of the International Property Maintenance Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 404.2 Minimum room widths. A habitable room, other than a kitchen,
shall not be less than seven feet (2,133mm) in any plan dimension. Kitchens
shall have a clear passageway of not less than two feet (762mm) between counter
fronts and appliances or counter fronts and walls.
   (q)   Section 404.3 of the International Property Maintenance Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 404.3 Minimum Ceiling Heights. Habitable spaces, hallways, corridors,
laundry areas, bathrooms, toilet rooms and habitable basement areas shall have
a clear ceiling height of not less than seven feet (2134 mm).
Exceptions:
   1.   Beams, girders or similar obstructions spaced not less than four feet
on center and projecting not more than six inches below the required ceiling
height.
   2.   Basement rooms having a ceiling height of not less than 6 feet 8 inches
with not less than six feet four inches of clear height under beams, girders,
ducts and similar obstructions.
   3.   Rooms occupied exclusively for sleeping, study or similar purposes and
having a sloped ceiling over all or part of the room, with a clear ceiling
height of at least seven feet over not less than one third of the minimum
required floor area. In calculating the floor area of such rooms, only those
portions of the floor area with a ceiling height of at least five feet or more
shall be included.
   (r)   Section 404.4.1 of the International Property Maintenance Code is
hereby changed to read as follows:
Section 404.4.1 Room Area. Every living room shall contain at least 120 square
feet and every bedroom shall contain at least 70 square feet.
   (s)   Section 404.5 of the International Property Maintenance Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 404.5 Overcrowding. The number of persons occupying a dwelling unit
shall not create conditions that, in the opinion of the code official, endanger
the life, health, safety or welfare of the occupants.
   (t)   Sections 404.5.1 and 404.5.2 of the international Property Maintenance
Code are hereby deleted.
   (u)   Section 502.4.1 of the International Property Maintenance Code is
hereby changed to read as follows:
Section 502.4.1 Drinking facilities. Drinking facilities shall be a drinking
fountain, water cooler, bottled water cooler, or disposable cups next to a sink
or water dispenser. Drinking facilities within drinking or dining
establishments or wholesale or retail grocery stores shall not be located in
toilet rooms or bathrooms.
   (v)   Section 602.3 of the International Property Maintenance Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 602.3 Heat Supply. Every owner and operator of any building who rents,
leases or lets one or more dwelling unit, rooming unit, dormitory or guest room
on terms, either express or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof
shall supply sufficient heat during the period from October 1 to May 15 to
maintain a room temperature of not less than 65 degrees Fahrenheit (18 degrees
Celsius) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms during the hours
between 6:30 a.m. and 10:30 p.m. of each day and not less than 60 degrees
Fahrenheit (16 degrees Celsius) during other hours. The temperature shall be
measured at a point three feet (914mm) above the floor and three feet (914mm)
from the exterior walls.
   (w)   Section 602.4 of the International Property Maintenance Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 602.4 Occupiable work spaces. Every enclosed occupied work space shall
be supplied with sufficient heat during the period from October 1 to May 15 to
maintain a temperature of not less than 65 degrees Fahrenheit (18 degrees
Celsius) during all working hours. The temperature shall be measured at a point
three feet (914 mm) above the floor and three feet (914 mm) from the exterior
walls.
Exceptions:
   1.   Processing, storage and operation areas that require cooling or special
temperature conditions.
   2.   Areas in which persons are primarily engaged in vigorous physical
activities.
   (x)   Section 604.2 of the International Property Maintenance Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 604.2 Service. The size and usage of appliances and equipment shall
serve as a basis for determining the need for additional facilities in
accordance with the National Electrical Code as adopted in §
4-402 of the city code of ordinances. Dwelling units shall be served by a three
wire, 120/240 volt, single phase electrical service having a rating of not less
than 60 amperes.
   (y)   Section 702.4 of the International Property Maintenance Code is hereby
changed to read as follows:
Section 702.4 Emergency escape openings. Every sleeping room located in a
basement in an occupancy in Use Group 1-1 or R shall have at least one openable
window or exterior door approved for emergency egress or rescue; or shall have
access to not less than two approved independent exits.
Exception:
Buildings equipped throughout with an automatic fire suppression system may
have fixed windows in accordance with the International Building Code.
An approved emergency escape or rescue window shall have a minimum clear
opening width and height of 18 inches, a minimum total clear openable area of
four square feet, and a maximum sill height above floor level of 48 inches.
Permanently installed step(s) may be used to attain maximum sill height. Such
step(s) must have a minimum tread of 12 inches and a maximum riser height of 16
inches. Emergency escape or rescue windows wells shall be a minimum of 24
inches measured from the exterior wall of the structure to the inside of the
well and shall be at least as wide as the window.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
ARTICLE 11: MOVING BUILDINGS
Section
   
4-1101   Moving buildings; permit
   
4-1102   Same; application
   
4-1103   Same; bond
   
4-1104   Same; fee
   
4-1105   Same; notice to owners
   
4-1106   Same; interfering with poles and wires
   
4-1107   Same; cutting trees
   
4-1108   Same; inspection
   
4-1109   Same; display of lights; barricades
§ 4-1101 MOVING BUILDINGS; PERMIT.
   No person, firm or corporation shall move, haul, or transport any house,
building, derrick or other structure of the height when loaded for movement of
16 feet or more from the surface of the highway, road, street or alley, or a
width of 15 feet or more or which cannot be moved at a speed of four mph or
faster, upon, across or over any street, alley or sidewalk in this city without
first obtaining a permit therefor as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-1102 SAME; APPLICATION.
   All applications for permits required shall be made in writing to the
Building Official specifying the day and hour the moving is to commence and the
route through the city’s streets over which the building or structure shall be
moved. If it shall be necessary to cut and move, raise or in any way interfere
with any wires or poles, the application shall state the name of the owner of
the wires or poles and the time and place, when and where the removal of the
poles or the cutting, raising or otherwise interfering of the wires will be
necessary. The city may specify a different route when deemed advisable. The
application shall be made not less that 48 hours before the moving is to
commence.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-1103 SAME; BOND.
   It shall be the duty of any person at the time of making application for a
permit as provided in this article to give a good and sufficient surety bond to
the city, to be approved by the City Manager, indemnifying the city against any
loss or damage resulting from the failure of any such person to comply with the
provisions of this article or for any damage or injury caused in moving any
such house or structure provided the bond herein shall be in the sum of $5,000,
or cash may be deposited in lieu of such surety bond. A public liability
insurance policy issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in
the state, in the amount of $100,000 per person, $300,000 per accident as to
personal injury, and $50,000 property damage may be permitted in lieu of a
bond.
((Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-1104 SAME; FEE.
   Before any permit to move any house or structure is given under the
provisions of this article, the applicant shall pay an application fee of $100
therefor to the Building Official, to be deposited to the credit of the General
Operating Fund of the city.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-1105 SAME; NOTICE TO OWNERS.
   (a)   Upon issuance of a moving permit the applicant shall give not less
than 15 days’ written notice to any person owning or operating any wires,
cables or other aerial equipment along the proposed route of the intent to move
the structure, giving the time and location that the applicants moving
operation shall necessitate the cutting, moving, raising or interfering of any
wires, cables or other aerial equipment.
   (b)   The notice provision of division (a) above shall not apply where the
person owning or operating any wires, cables or other aerial equipment has
waived their right to advance notice.
   (c)   Should the moving operation be delayed, the applicant shall give the
owner or his or her agent not less than 24 hours advance notice of the actual
operation.
   (d)   It shall be the duty of the person or the city owning or operating
such poles or wires after service of notice as provided herein, to furnish
competent linemen or workmen to remove such poles, or raise or cut such wires
as will be necessary to facilitate the moving of such house or structure. The
necessary expense which is incurred thereby shall be paid by the holder of the
moving permit.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-1106 SAME; INTERFERING WITH POLES AND WIRES.
   No person engaged in moving any house or other structure shall raise, cut or
in any way interfere with any such poles or wires unless the persons or
authorities owning or having control of the same shall refuse to do so after
having been notified as provided in §
4-1105, and then only competent and experienced workmen shall be employed in
such work, and in such case the necessary and reasonable expense shall be paid
by the owners of the poles and wires handled. The work shall be done in a
careful and workmanlike manner, and the poles and wires shall be promptly
replaced and the drainages thereto properly repaired.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-1107 SAME; CUTTING TREES.
   No person shall trim or cut any shade trees for the purpose of allowing any
building to pass through or upon any street, avenue or alley or lands within
the city without the consent and under the direction of the owner of the trees
and of the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-1108 SAME; INSPECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or his or her designee from time
to time, to inspect the progress of moving any building, derrick, house or
other structure and to see that the house, building, derrick or other structure
is being moved in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-1109 SAME; DISPLAY OF LIGHTS; BARRICADES.
   It shall be the duty of mover during the course of the moving to display red
lights on the structure in such a manner as to show the extreme height and
width thereof from 30 minutes after sunset to 30 minutes before sunrise, and in
the nighttime when the structure shall be standing in any street or public way,
the same shall be guarded in the above manner by barricades and flares.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
ARTICLE 12: NUMBERING BUILDINGS
Section
   
4-1201   Numbering buildings; continuation of existing system
   
4-1202   Same; assignment of numbers
   
4-1203   Same; disputes
   
4-1204   Same; system variations
   
4-1205   Same; display of numbers required
   
4-1206   Same; penalty
§ 4-1201 NUMBERING BUILDINGS; CONTINUATION OF EXISTING SYSTEM.
   The long established and existing system of numbering buildings in the city
shall be continued as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-1202 SAME; ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Official to assign street numbers for
all newly erected buildings, or for any changes in the fronts of buildings
already erected. Such numbers shall be assigned to conform, as nearly as
possible, to the existing system of numbering buildings.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-1203 SAME; DISPUTES.
   In case of any dispute or controversy as to the street number of any
existing building or of any building hereafter erected, the matter shall be
submitted to and determined by the City Manager, whose decision shall be final.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-1204 SAME; SYSTEM VARIATIONS.
   In the cases of irregular shaped blocks and irregularly designed or routed
streets or cul-de-sacs, the Building Official in his or her discretion, may
vary the established building numbering system as he or she shall deem
necessary and reasonable under the circumstances.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-1205 SAME; DISPLAY OF NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   The owner or occupant of every building in the city is required to display
the street number of such building on the front of such building. In the case
of multiple buildings on a site, the building designation shall also be
displayed. The numbers and/or letters so displayed shall be in accordance with
§ 505 of the International Fire Code, except that the minimum height of the
numbers and/or letters for business building addresses shall have a height of
not less than six inches. Identification of multiple-tenancy buildings shall
include display of each unit designation upon or near the door of the
corresponding unit, which shall have height of not less than two and one-half
inches.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-1206 SAME; PENALTY.
   Any person owning or occupying a building in the city who shall fail to
display the street number assigned to such building by the City Manager as
herein provided, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more that $10.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
ARTICLE 13: DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURES
Section
   
4-1301   Demolition of structures; permit required
   
4-1302   Same; fee
   
4-1303   Abandoned sewers
   
4-1304   Same; clean-up; filling in of basement
   
4-1305   Same; violation
§ 4-1301 DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURES; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall demolish any building or structure within the city of a type
regulated by the building codes of the city, nor demolish any manufactured home
on-site, without having first obtained a demolition permit issued by the
Building Official in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1732, passed 7-21-2020; Ord. 1772, passed 6-
21-2022)
§ 4-1302 SAME; FEE.
   A fee of $25 per building or structure shall be collected from the applicant
at the time the demolition permit is issued. Such fee shall be charged for
inspection by the Building Official for compliance with the provisions of this
article, and credited to the General Operating Fund of the city.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-1303 ABANDONED SEWERS.
   Every abandoned building sewer, or part thereof, shall be plugged or capped
in an approved manner within five feet of the property line. This work shall be
accomplished and inspected by the Building Official within three days after the
building is demolished.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-1304 SAME; CLEAN-UP; FILLING IN OF BASEMENT.
   Within one week following commencement of the demolition of any building or
structure, the lot shall be cleaned up, and the basement, foundation, footings
and any other subterranean structure such as a cistern, shall be removed,
filled in and leveled. The demolition area shall be secured by an approved
means during removal. Completion of such work may extend beyond the one week
time period upon approval of an application therefor by the Building Official.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 4-1305 SAME; VIOLATION.
   Any person in violation of this article shall be guilty of an offense
punishable as provided by § 1-117 of the city code.
(Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-21-2022)
ARTICLE 14: UNDERGROUND UTILITY DAMAGE PREVENTION AND SAFETY
Section
   
4-1401   Definitions
   
4-1402   Same; excavation; foundations; footings
   
4-1403   Same; violations
§ 4-1401 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXCAVATION. Any operation in which earth, rock or other material below the
surface is moved or otherwise displaced by any means, except tilling the soil
for normal agricultural or gardening purposes.
   UTILITY. City of Wamego owned underground electric, water, sanitary sewer
and storm sewer lines and facilities.
(Ord. 1586, passed 4-3-2012; Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-
21-2022)
§ 4-1402 SAME; EXCAVATION; FOUNDATIONS; FOOTINGS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation within three
feet in any direction from an existing utility that has been duly marked in
accordance with the Kansas Underground Utility Damage Prevention Act, being
K.S.A. 66-1801 et seq., or has been exposed or otherwise located; without
written and certified authorization of the city supervisor in charge of the
marked or identified utility.
   (b)   No foundation, footing, form, post or other supporting feature shall
be poured or placed within three feet in any direction from an existing utility
so marked or otherwise located; without such authorization.
(Ord. 1586, passed 4-3-2012; Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-
21-2022)
§ 4-1403 SAME; VIOLATIONS.
   Any person making an excavation, or pouring or placing a foundation,
footing, form, post or other supporting feature, in violation of this article,
upon conviction shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $100, and further may
be subject to compensating the city for the cost of labor, equipment and
materials required to restore any damaged utility to its former condition.
(Ord. 1586, passed 4-3-2012; Ord. 1629, passed 5-4-2014; Ord. 1772, passed 6-
21-2022)
ARTICLE 15: SHIPPING CONTAINERS
Section
   
4-1501   Shipping container; definition
   
4-1502   Same; prohibition in residential districts
   
4-1503   Same; violation
§ 4-1501 SHIPPING CONTAINER; DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SHIPPING CONTAINER. A large box, with or without a roof or a chassis and/or
wheels underneath, designed primarily for shipping or hauling materials, but
which is also suitable for storage of materials. Examples of such containers
include intermodal freight containers, site boxes, pods, truck trailers when
used for storage, roll-off dumpsters and similar containers.
(Ord. 1675, passed 1-3-2017)
§ 4-1502 SAME; PROHIBITION IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to site a shipping container in a residential
district, as depicted on the city’s Official Zoning Map and within the
corporate limits of the city, for use as a storage shed or garage, except as
provided under division (b) below.
   (b)   The Building Official may authorize placement of a shipping container
in a residential district within the city for a period not to exceed three
months, for use as temporary storage, however such authorization shall not be
construed as a building permit or zoning permit, and a shipping container may
not be relocated to a new site on the subject property in order to extend the
allowable timeframe for placement. Such authorization shall be documented and
retained by the Building Official, and shall specify the location upon the
subject property, which may require a site behind building setback lines
established under the applicable residential zoning district of the city’s
zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 1675, passed 1-3-2017)
§ 4-1503 SAME; VIOLATION.
   Any person placing a shipping container in a residential district within the
city without having received authorization from the Building Official, or who
fails to remove such container so authorized within the three-month timeframe
established above, shall upon conviction be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500, and further may be subject to compensate the city for any expenses
incurred in removing such container. Each and every day that such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense. In addition, the city may
institute mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceedings to correct or
abate such violation.
(Ord. 1675, passed 1-3-2017)
CHAPTER V: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS
ARTICLE 1: SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS
Section
   
5-101   Definitions
   
5-102   License required
   
5-103   Same; application required
   
5-104   Same; investigation fee
   
5-105   Same; investigation and issuance
   
5-106   Same; license fee; exemptions
   
5-107   Renewal
   
5-108   Denial, revocation or suspension of license; notice
   
5-109   Appeal to governing body
   
5-110   Regulations
   
5-111   Use of streets and sidewalks
   
5-112   Disturbing the peace
§ 5-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER or SOLICITOR. Any individual, whether resident of the city or not,
whose business is mainly or principally carried on by traveling either by foot,
automobile, motor truck or any other type of conveyance, from place to place,
from house to house, or from street to street, taking or attempting to take
orders for sale of goods, wares and merchandise, personal property of any
nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be furnished or
performed in the future, whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes
for sale a sample of the subject of such sale or whether he or she is
collecting advance payments on such sales or not. Such definition shall include
any person, who, for himself, herself or for another person, hires, leases,
uses or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, hotel
room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within the city for the
sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery.
   PEDDLER. Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by
foot, automotive vehicle, or any other type of conveyance, from place to place,
from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying or
transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden
truck, farm products or provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale, or
making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or who, without traveling
from place to place, shall sell or offer the same for sale from a wagon,
automotive vehicle, railroad boxcar or other vehicle or conveyance, and further
provided, that one who solicits orders and as a separate transaction makes
deliveries to purchasers as a part of a scheme or design to evade the
provisions of this article shall be deemed a PEDDLER.
   RESIDENCE. Includes every separate living unit occupied for residential
purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of building or
structure.
   SOLICITING. Includes any one or more of the following activities:
   (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services, of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever;
   (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase of
insurance of any type, kind or character; or
   (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication.
   STREET SALESMAN. Any person engaged in any manner in selling merchandise of
any kind from a vehicle or stand temporarily located on the public streets or
sidewalks of this city.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT or ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person,
whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether a resident of the city
or not, who engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods,
wares and merchandise within such city, and who, in furtherance of such
purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor
vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar or boat, public room in hotels, lodging houses,
apartments, shops or any street, alley or other place within the city, for the
exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or
at public auction. Such definition shall not be construed to include any person
who, while occupying such temporary location, does not sell from stock, but
exhibits samples only for the purpose of securing orders for future delivery
only. The person so engaged shall not be relieved from complying with the
provisions of this article merely by reason of associating temporarily with any
local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by conducting such transient
business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer.
§ 5-102 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a
peddler, solicitor or canvasser, as defined under §
5-101, within the corporate limits of the city without then having an unrevoked
and unexpired license therefor in his or her possession and issued by the City
Clerk.
   (b)   No license shall be required to engage in the business of a transient
merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor as defined under §
5-101, however, the City Clerk may request from such merchant or vendor proof
of authorization by the owner of property whereon such business is conducted,
and shall notify such owner of property in the event that said proof of
authorization is not forthcoming. In the event that such owner cannot be
contacted, the City Clerk shall notify the Chief of Police who shall order the
merchant or vendor to vacate such property until authorization can be provided
to the City Clerk. Failure to comply with such order shall be enforced as a
criminal trespass offense.
(Ord. 1661, passed 6-7-2016)
§ 5-103 SAME; APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Before the City Clerk may issue any license required by this article, he or
she shall require a sworn application in writing prepared in duplicate on a
form to be supplied by the City Clerk which shall give the following
information:
   (a)   Name and description of each person to be engaged in soliciting or
peddling;
   (b)   Permanent home address and full local address of each person;
   (c)   Identification of each person, including a valid U.S. driver’s license
or identification card, containing date of birth, and description of the
applicant; or in lieu thereof, a photograph of the applicant, taken within 90
days prior to the date of making application, which picture shall be at least
two inches by two inches showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a
clear and distinguishing manner, and the fingerprints of the person taken by
the city’s Police Department, both to be filed with the application;
   (d)   Identification of all vehicles to be employed by each person while
engaged in soliciting or peddling, including each vehicle license tag number;
   (e)   A brief description of the nature of the business to be carried on or
the goods to be sold;
   (f)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing such relationship, including the authority by the
employer authorizing the applicant(s) to represent the employer in conducting
business;
   (g)   The length of time which business is proposed to be carried on; and
   (h)   The place where services are to be performed or where the goods or
property proposed to be sold or orders taken for the sale thereof are
manufactured or produced, where such goods or products are located at the time
the application is filed, and the proposed method of delivery.
(Ord. 1661, passed 6-7-2016)
§ 5-104 SAME; INVESTIGATION FEE.
   At the time of filing the application, a fee of $25 for each person engaged
in soliciting or peddling shall be paid to the City Clerk to cover the cost of
investigation of the facts stated in the foregoing application. In the case of
an itinerant fireworks vendor’s license application, said fee shall be
considered as part of the fee established for said license under § 5-206(d).
(Ord. 1661, passed 6-7-2016)
§ 5-105 SAME; INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (a)   Upon receipt of the above application, the City Clerk shall refer the
same to a professional investigation firm, contracted by the city, which shall
cause an investigation of the facts stated therein to be made within three
business days.
   (b)   If as a result of the investigation, the character or business
responsibility of each or any person engaged in soliciting or peddling is found
to be unsatisfactory or the facts stated in the application are untrue, the
City Clerk shall endorse on such application his or her disapproval of the
application and the reasons for the same and shall notify the applicant
regarding said findings and that no license will be issued.
   (c)   If however, the investigation of such application discloses that the
character and business responsibility and facts stated in the application are
satisfactory and true, the City Clerk shall endorse his or her findings and
approval on such application and shall immediately upon payment of the license
fee prescribed hereafter, issue a license to each person to engage in the
business described in the application. Such license shall be in such form as
required by ordinance and shall show the name of the licensee, the date of
issuance and the length of time the license shall be operative.
   (d)   The City Clerk shall keep a permanent record of all such licenses
issued.
   (e)   Each licensee shall carry the license at all times and show it upon
request.
(Ord. 1661, passed 6-7-2016)
§ 5-106 SAME; LICENSE FEE; EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   Except as provided under division (c) below, the fee for the license
required pursuant to §
5-102 shall be in the amount of $25 per person per each day, or portion
thereof, that the licensee shall be engaged in soliciting or peddling within
the city limits, provided that no licensee shall be required to pay daily fees
totaling in excess of $100 in any 30-day period.
   (b)   Except as provided under division (d) below, any such license granted
upon application as required above shall be limited to and effective only on
the days set out in the license between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
unless by specific invitation by the homeowner.
   (c)   Except as provided under division (d) below, no license fee shall be
required of any eleemosynary organizations providing to the City Clerk suitable
proof of the nonprofit nature of the organization. No license fee shall
likewise be required of any person selling products of the farm or orchard
actually produced by the seller; any businesses, trades or occupations which
are part of fairs or celebrations sponsored by the city or any other
governmental subdivision, or the state, or when part or all of the expenses of
the fairs or celebrations are paid for by the city, and other governmental
subdivision, or the state.
   (d)   The fee for the license required pursuant to §
5-102 for itinerant fireworks vendors shall be $250, including the
investigation fee established under §
5-104. Hours of operation shall be unlimited during the dates established by
the rules and regulations of the State Fire Marshal as set out in the Kansas
Administrative Regulations at 22-6-5.
(Ord. 1661, passed 6-7-2016)
§ 5-107 RENEWAL.
   (a)   All licenses issued shall be subject to renewal upon a showing of
compliance with §§
5-102 and
5-103 of this article within a six-month period prior to the renewal date.
   (b)   The City Clerk need not require an additional application under §
5-103 or an additional investigation and investigation fee under §§ 5-105 and
5-106 unless complaints have been received of violations of the conditions
under which any license has heretofore been issued.
   (c)   The City Clerk shall not renew or extend any license where there is
satisfactory evidence of any grounds for the suspension or revocation of any
prior license, and the applicant shall be required to apply for a license as in
the case of an original license.
§ 5-108 DENIAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; NOTICE.
   The City Clerk or Chief of Police may deny any application or may revoke or
suspend for a period of not to exceed 30 days any license issued under this
article, for any of the following causes:
   (a)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
   (b)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business;
   (c)   Any violation of this article;
   (d)   Conducting a business as defined in §
5-101 in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of
the peace or to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of
the city. Notice of the denial, revocation or suspension of a license shall be
given in writing to the applicant or mailed to his or her last known address
and the City Clerk shall set forth the grounds of such denial, revocation or
suspension; and
   (e)   Conviction of the crime of theft, larceny, fraud, embezzlement or any
felony within two years prior to the application date.
§ 5-109 APPEAL TO GOVERNING BODY.
   (a)   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police or City
Clerk in the denial of an application or revocation or suspension of a license
as provided in this article, shall have the right of appeal to the governing
body.
   (b)   Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the City Clerk within 14
days after notice of revocation, suspension or denial of the license has been
given to or mailed to such applicant’s last known address and setting forth the
grounds for appeal.
   (c)   The governing body shall set a time and place for a hearing on such
appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to the applicant in the same
manner as provided herein for notice of denial, revocation or suspension.
   (d)   The decision and order of the governing body on such appeal shall be
final and conclusive.
§ 5-110 REGULATIONS.
   (a)    It shall be unlawful for any licensee to make false or fraudulent
statements concerning the quality of nature of his or her goods, wares and
merchandise for the purpose of inducing another to purchase the same.
   (b)   Licensees are required to exhibit their license at the request of any
person to whom they attempt to sell their goods, wares and merchandise or take
orders for future delivery of the same.
§ 5-111 USE OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   Except when authorized in writing by the City Clerk, no peddler, solicitor
or canvasser or any other person shall have exclusive right to any location in
the public streets for the purpose of selling or soliciting sales, nor shall
any person be permitted a stationary location in the public streets, nor shall
any person be permitted to operate in the sidewalks and streets within the fire
limits of the city or any congested area where his or her operations might
impede or inconvenience the public.
§ 5-112 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   Except when authorized in writing by the City Clerk, no licensee nor any
person in his or her behalf, shall use any sound device, including any loud-
speaking radio or sound-amplifying system upon any of the streets, alleys,
parks or other public places of the city or upon any private premises in the
city where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom to be
capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys, parks or
other public places, for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods,
wares or merchandise which such licensee proposes to sell.
 
CHAPTER VI: ELECTIONS
   Article
      
1.   CITY ELECTIONS
      
2.   WARD BOUNDARIES
ARTICLE 1: CITY ELECTIONS
Section
   
6-101   Election of governing body; staggered terms
   
6-102   Voting place
   
6-103   Conduct of election
   
6-104   Hours of voting
   
6-105   Commencement of terms of office; oath of office
§ 6-101 ELECTION OF GOVERNING BODY; STAGGERED TERMS.
   (a)   The governing body of the city shall be enlarged from three
Commissioners to five Commissioners effective and for the purpose of election
in the year 1973, and ensuing years. The governing body of five Commissioners
shall become effective as soon thereafter as elected as hereinafter provided
for.
   (b)   At the first election to be held hereunder, there shall be designated
Position I, being a three-year term, Position II, being a four-year term, and
Position III, being a four-year term. Thereafter, each year, there shall be
elected one Commissioner for a four-year term, except that on each fourth year,
there shall be elected two Commissioners for a four-year term each. Whenever a
tie shall occur in a vote on any of the aforesaid officers, the result shall be
decided by lot by the county election officer.
   (c)   (1)   The City Clerk shall within three days after the canvass of the
returns, and determination by the county election officer, of the person
elected, deliver to each such person a certificate of election signed by him or
her with the seal of the city and such certificate shall constitute notice of
election.
      (2)   The term of the officers shall begin on the first regular meeting
of the Commission in May following their election in April, and they shall
qualify at any time before or at the beginning of the meeting and as otherwise
required by statute. If any person elected to the office of Commissioner does
not qualify within the required time, he or she shall be deemed to have refused
to accept the office and a vacancy shall exist; and thereupon, a majority of
the Commission, by voice vote, shall appoint a suitable elector of the city to
fill the vacancy of the term to which the refusing person was elected. In case
of a vacancy in the office of Commissioner occurring by reason of resignation,
death or removal from office or from the city, the Mayor, by and with the
consent of a majority of the remaining Commissioners shall appoint a suitable
elector of the city to fill the vacancy until the next election for that
office. The Commission shall be organized as provided by law with the selection
of a President of the Commission.
(Charter Ord. 3, passed - -)
§ 6-102 VOTING PLACE.
   All city elections within the city shall be held at locations designated by
the county election officer.
§ 6-103 CONDUCT OF ELECTION.
   The election of city officials shall be conducted in all respects as
provided by the laws of the state governing the holding of city elections.
(K.S.A. 25-2101 et seq.)
§ 6-104 HOURS OF VOTING.
   At all city elections, the polls shall be open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 7:
00 p.m., unless different hours are set and publicly announced by the county
election officer.
(K.S.A. 25-2111)
§ 6-105 COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS OF OFFICE; OATH OF OFFICE.
   (a)   The term of office shall commence on a date established by resolution
of the city on or after December 1 following the certification of the election
and no later than the second Monday in January following certification of the
election by the county election officer. If a date is not established by
resolution, the term shall begin on the second Monday in January.
   (b)   Every person elected or appointed to city office, before entering upon
the duties of such office, shall take and subscribe an oath or affirmation as
specified in K.S.A. 54-106, and amendments thereto, and every such oath or
affirmation shall be filed with the City Clerk.
(K.S.A. 25-2120)
ARTICLE 2: WARD BOUNDARIES
Section
   
6-201   Boundaries of wards
§ 6-201 BOUNDARIES OF WARDS.
   The City of Wamego is hereby divided into two wards, which shall be
designated as the East Ward and the West Ward, and the wards shall be divided
and separated by the centerline of Poplar Street from the north limits of the
city to the intersection of the centerline of Poplar Street and Third Street,
thence west along the centerline of Third Street to the intersection of the
centerline of Third Street and the centerline of Vine Street, thence south
along the centerline of Vine Street to the south limits of the city. All
persons so residing east of the line shall be residents of the East Ward and
all persons so residing west of the line shall be residents of the West Ward.
(K.S.A. 14-103) (Ord. 1038, passed 12-20-1988)
CHAPTER VII: FIRE
   Article
      
1.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
2.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
3.   FIREFIGHTER’S RELIEF ASSOCIATION
ARTICLE 1: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
7-101   Adoption of the International Fire Code
   
7-102   Same; amendments
   
7-103   Fireworks
   
7-104   Open burning
   
7-105   Penalties
§ 7-101 ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of prescribing
regulations concerning conditions hazardous to life and property from fire,
hazardous materials or explosion within the corporate limits of the City of
Wamego, Kansas, that certain fire code known as the International Fire Code,
2018 edition including Appendices B, C, D, E, F, G, I and J as being
recommended by the International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW 6th
Floor, Washington, DC, 20001, save and except such portions as are hereinafter
omitted, deleted, modified or changed. No fewer than one copy of such
publication shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as Adopted by Ord. 1630”,
and shall be attached to a copy of this ordinance and filed with the City Clerk
and open for inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours.
All administrative departments of the city charged with enforcement of this
code shall be supplied, at the cost of the city, such number of official
copies, similarly marked, as may be deemed expedient.
(Ord. 1630, passed 5-6-2014; Ord. 1773, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 7-102 SAME; AMENDMENTS.
   The International Fire Code, adopted by §
7-101, is hereby changed, altered, modified and otherwise amended as follows.
   (a)   Section 101.1 of the International Fire Code shall read as follows:
Section 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Fire Code of the
City of Wamego, hereinafter referred to as “this code”.
   (b)   Section 108 of the International Fire Code is hereby deleted.
   (c)   Section 109.3 of the International Fire Code is hereby changed to read
as follows:
Section 109.3 Violation penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of
this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
shall erect, install, alter, repair or do work in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the code official, or of a permit or
certificate used under provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, subject to the penalties prescribed under §
7-105.
   (d)   Section 111.4 of the International Fire Code is hereby changed to read
as follows:
Section 111.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable
to the penalties prescribed under §
7-105.
   (e)   Section 307.4, exceptions 1 and 2, of the International Fire Code is
hereby deleted.
   (f)   Section 307.4.3 exception of the International Fire Code is hereby
deleted.
   (g)   Section 308.1.4 of the International Fire Code is hereby deleted.
   (h)   Section 408.3 of the International Fire Code is hereby changed to read
as follows:
Section 408.3 Group E Occupancies and R-2 college and university buildings.
Group E occupancies shall comply with the requirements of Sections 408.3.1
through 408.3.4, Sections 401 through 406 and Kansas State Fire Marshal
Regulation 22-18-2. Group R-2 college and university buildings shall comply
with the requirements of Sections 408.3.1 and 408.3.3 and Sections 401 through
406.
   (i)   Section 507.2.1 of the International Fire Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 507.2.1 Fire Service Mains. Fire service mains and appurtenances shall
be installed in accordance with NFPA 24 and the city’s policies. All mains and
fire hydrants shall be installed in a dedicated public utility easement, on
file with the county register of deeds, and become the property of the city
upon satisfactory installation. The city public works department shall be
notified of construction activities to insure the opportunity for formal
inspections by the city.
   (j)   Section 903.3.1.2.1 of the International Fire Code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Section 903.3.1.2.1 Balconies and decks. Sprinkler protection shall be provided
for exterior balconies, breezeways of combustible construction, decks and
ground floor patios of dwelling units where the building is of Type V
construction, provided there is roof or deck above. Sidewall sprinklers that
are used to protect such areas shall be permitted to be located such that their
deflectors are within one inch (25 mm) to six inches (152 mm) below the
structural members and a maximum distance of 14 inches (356 mm) below the deck
of the exterior balconies, breezeways and decks that are constructed of open
wood joist construction.
   (k)   Section 903.4.2 of the International Fire Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 903.4.2 Alarms. Approved audible/visual devices shall be connected to
every automatic sprinkler system. Such sprinkler water-flow devices shall be
activated by water flow equivalent to the flow of a single sprinkler of the
smallest orifice size installed in the system. Alarm devices shall be provided
on the exterior of the building directly above the fire department connection
or at an approved location. Where a fire alarm system is installed, actuation
of the automatic sprinkler system shall actuate the building fire alarm system.
   (l)   Section 904.11.6.3 of the International Fire Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 904.11.6.3 Fusible link and sprinkler head replacement. Fusible links
and automatic sprinkler heads shall be replaced at least annually, and other
protection devices shall be serviced or replaced in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions. Replaced links and heads shall be left on site
with the required service tag for verification by the fire code official.
Exception:
Frangible bulbs are not required to be replaced annually.
   (m)   Section 906.1 Exception of the International Fire Code is hereby
deleted.
   (n)   Section 1008.1.9.3 of the International Fire Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 1008.1.9.3 Locks and latches. Locks and latches shall be permitted to
prevent the operation of doors where any of the following exists:
   1.   Places of detention or restraint.
   2.   In buildings in occupancy Group A having an occupant load of 300 or
less, Group B, F, M and S, and in places of religious worship, the main
exterior door or doors is permitted to be equipped with thumb turn operated
locking devices from the egress side provided:
   2.1   A readily visible durable sign is posted on the egress side on or
adjacent to the door stating: THIS DOOR TO REMAIN UNLOCKED WHEN BUILDING IS
OCCUPIED. This sign shall be in letters one inch high on a contrasting
background.
   2.2   Doors other than those regulated by Exception 2 in Group B, F, M and
S, and in places of religious worship, having an occupant load of 500 or less,
the secondary exterior door or doors is permitted to be equipped with thumb
turn operated locking devices from the egress side.
   2.3   Doors serving rooms or spaces accessory to Group A occupancies not in
the means of egress for the Group A occupancy, are permitted to be equipped
with thumb turn operated locking devices from the egress side.
   2.4   The use of the key-operated or thumb turn locking device is revocable
by the fire code official for due cause.
   3.   Where egress doors are used in pairs, approved automatic flush bolts
shall be permitted to be used, provided that the door leaf having the automatic
flush bolts has no doorknob or surface mounted hardware. The unlatching of any
leaf shall not require more than one operation.
   4.   Doors from individual dwelling units or sleeping units of Group R
occupancies having an occupant load of ten or less are permitted to be equipped
with a night latch, dead bolt or security chain, provided such devices are
openable from the inside without the use of a key or tool.
   5.   Fire doors after the minimum elevated temperature has disabled the
unlocking mechanism in accordance with listed fire door test procedures.
   (o)   Section 1013.4 of the International Fire Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 1013.4. Opening limitations. Open guards shall have intermediate rails
or an ornamental pattern such that a sphere four and one-half inches (102 mm)
in diameter cannot pass through.
Exceptions:
   1.   The open space between the intermediate rails or ornamental pattern of
guardrails in areas of commercial and industrial-type occupancies which are not
accessible to the public may be such that a sphere 12 inches (305 mm) in
diameter cannot pass through.
   2.   The triangular openings formed by the riser, tread and bottom element
of a guardrail at the open side of a stairway may be of such size that a sphere
six inches (152 mm) in diameter cannot pass through.
   3.   At elevated walking surfaces for access to and use of electrical,
mechanical and plumbing systems or equipment, guards shall have balusters or be
of solid materials such that a sphere with a diameter of 21 inches cannot pass
through any opening.
   (p)   Section 1029.1 of the International Fire Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 1029.1 General. In addition to the means of egress required by this
chapter, provisions shall be made for emergency escape and rescue in group R as
applicable in Section 101.2 and Group I-1 occupancies. Basements and sleeping
rooms below the fourth story shall have at least one exterior emergency escape
and rescue opening in accordance with this section. Such openings shall open
directly into a public street, public alley, yard or court.
Exception:
In other than Group R-3 occupancies, buildings equipped throughout with an
approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or
903.3.1.2 may have the required above grade egress windows fixed in a closed
position as long as the required ventilation is maintained.
   (q)   Section 1029.2 of the International Fire Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 1029.2 Minimum size. Emergency escape and rescue openings shall have a
minimum net clear opening of 5.7 square feet.
   (r)   Section 1030.7 of the International Fire Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 1030.7 Emergency escape opening. Every sleeping room located in a
basement in an occupancy in Use Group I-1 or R shall have at least one openable
window or exterior door approved for emergency egress or rescue; or shall have
access to not less than two approved independent exits.
Exceptions:
Buildings equipped throughout with an automatic fire suppression system may
have fixed windows in accordance with the International Building Code.
An approved emergency escape or rescue window shall have a minimum clear
opening width and height of 18 inches, a minimum total clear openable area of
four square feet, and a maximum sill height above floor level of 48 inches.
Permanently installed step(s) may be used to attain maximum sill height. Such
step(s) must have a minimum tread of 12 inches and a maximum riser height of 16
inches. Emergency escape or rescue window wells shall be a minimum of 24 inches
measured from the exterior wall of the structure to the inside of the well and
shall be at least as wide as the window.
   (s)   Section 1104.16.5 of the International Fire Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 1104.16.5 Materials and strength. Components of fire escape stairs
shall be constructed of noncombustible materials. Fire escape stairs and
balconies shall support the dead load plus a live load of not less than 100
pounds per square foot (4.78 kN/m2). Fire escape stairs and balconies shall be
provided with a top and intermediate handrail on each side. The fire code
official is authorized to require testing or other satisfactory evidence that
an existing fire escape stair meets the requirements of this section.
   (t)   Section 1104.16.5.1 of the International Fire Code is hereby deleted.
   (u)   Section 2304.3.6 of the International Fire Code is hereby deleted.
   (v)   Section 3104.12 of the International Fire Code is hereby changed to
read as follows:
Section 2404.12 Portable Fire Extinguishers. Minimum fire extinguisher coverage
shall be provided in every tent and temporary membrane structure as required by
Section 906 and as follows:
   a.   200 to 500 square feet of floor area: One 2A: 10B:C.
   b.   501 to 1,000 square feet of floor area: Two 2A: 10B:C.
   c.   Each additional 2,000 square feet of floor area or fraction thereof:
One 2A: 10B:C.
   (w)   Section 5601.2.4 of the International Fire Code is hereby is deleted.
   (x)   Section 5704.2.7.10 of the International Fire Code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Section 5704.2.7.10 Leak reporting. A consistent or accidental loss of liquid,
or other indication of a leak from a tank system, shall be reported immediately
to the fire department, the fire code official and other authorities having
jurisdiction.
Leaking tanks shall be promptly emptied, repaired and returned to service or
removed in accordance with Section 3404.2.13 or 3404.2.14.
   (y)   Section 5704.2.13.1.3 of the International Fire Code is hereby changed
to read as follows:
Section 5704.2.13.1.3 Out of service for one year. Underground tanks that have
been out of service for a period of one year shall be removed from the ground
in accordance with Section 3404.2.14 or tested by an approved method to show
that the tank does not leak.
   (z)   Section 5704.2.13.1.4 of the International Fire Code is hereby
deleted.
   (aa)   Section D103.4 of the International Fire Code shall read as follows:
D103.4 Dead Ends. Dead-end fire apparatus access roads in excess of 150 feet
shall be provided with width and turnaround provisions in accordance with Table
D103.4 or if a dead end in a residential development is less than 600 feet in
length the turnaround should be provided in accordance with City Engineering
Standard Specifications.
   (bb)   Section D107.1 of the International Fire Code shall read as follows:
D107.1 One- or two-family dwelling residential developments. Developments of
one-or two-family dwellings where the number of dwelling units exceeds 30 shall
be provided with separate and approved fire apparatus access roads and shall
meet the requirements of Section D104.3.
Exceptions:
   1.   Where there are more than 30 dwelling units existing, or proposed to
exist, on a single public or private fire apparatus access road and the owners
of all building lots, beyond those building lots which are closest to the
development entrance and where 30 dwelling units exist, or are proposed to
exist, have contractually bound said lots by an agreement with the city that
all dwelling units constructed, or to be constructed thereon, will be equipped
throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system, access from two
directions shall not be required; or
   2.   Where the fire code official determines that additional approved fire
apparatus access roads are planned for in the reasonably foreseeable future,
the fire code official may allow more than 30 dwelling units to exist on a
single access road.
(Ord. 1630, passed 5-6-2014; Ord. 1773, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 7-103 FIREWORKS.
   (a)   The manufacture, sale and discharge of fireworks in the city shall be
governed by the Rules and Regulations of the State Fire Marshal, as set forth
in the Kansas Administrative Regulations at 22-6-1 et seq. Such Rules and
Regulations are hereby incorporated by reference as if set out in full herein.
   (b)   Section 22-6-5 of the Rules and Regulations of the State Fire Marshal
incorporated in division (a) above is hereby amended to read as follows:
The discharge or firing of fireworks is allowed only on the following days and
times each year: on July 1, 2, and 3 between 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., on July
4 between 8:00 a.m. and 11:59 p.m., and on July 5 between 8:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m., provided, however, that no fireworks shall be discharged or fired in any
public places, i.e., city parks, streets, alleys or public parking areas.
Provided further, however, that the governing body may issue special permits
for fireworks displays on special occasions to civic or patriotic organizations
or to public school officials, upon written application, only if the applicant
agrees that such display shall be open to the public and subject to the
supervision and direction of the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 1630, passed 5-6-2014; Ord. 1714, passed 6-3-2019; Ord. 1773, passed 6-
21-2022)
§ 7-104 OPEN BURNING.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GARBAGE. Without limitation any accumulation of animal, fruit or
vegetable waste matter that results from the handling, preparation, cooking,
serving, delivering, storage or use of foodstuffs.
      TRASH. Combustible waste consisting of, but not limited to: papers,
cartons, boxes, barrels, wood, packing materials, furniture, bedding, rags or
tree branches and non-combustible waste consisting of, but not limited to:
metal, tin, cans, glass, crockery, plastics, mineral matter, ashes, clinkers,
or street rubbish and sweepings.
   (b)   The burning of trash, garbage or any solid waste materials within the
corporate city limits of the city is hereby expressly prohibited.
   (c)   The provisions of this section shall not prohibit the burning of
leaves and lawn trimmings if such burning is performed upon private property
and in accordance with the open burning regulations of the International Fire
Code.
(Ord. 1630, passed 5-6-2014; Ord. 1773, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 7-105 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the code hereby
adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply
with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detained
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified
by the governing body or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time
fixed herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and
noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a violation of this code punishable by
a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment not exceeding 6 months or by
both such fine and imprisonment. The imposition of one penalty for any
violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such
persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects
within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten days that
prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   (b)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Ord. 1630, passed 5-6-2014; Ord. 1773, passed 6-21-2022)
ARTICLE 2: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
7-201   Composition; appointment
   
7-202   Fire Chief
   
7-203   Same; authority; powers and duties
   
7-204   Assistant Chief(s); duties
   
7-205   Members of Fire Department; eligibility
   
7-206   Inspectors
   
7-207   Discipline
   
7-208   Fire drills
   
7-209   Records and reports
§ 7-201 COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT.
   The City Manager shall appoint a Chief of the Fire Department, and all
members of the Department including the Chief shall elect up to three Assistant
Chiefs of the Fire Department and make appointments of such other firefighters
of the city, with approval of City Manager. The City Manager may designate two
members of the Fire Department as fire inspectors, upon the recommendation of
the Chief of the Fire Department. The members of the Fire Department shall have
such duties as shall be prescribed by the ordinances of the city, and shall
receive compensation as approved by the governing body.
(Ord. 1630, passed 5-6-2014; Ord. 1773, passed 6-21-2022; Ord. 1792, passed 5-
2-2023)
§ 7-202 FIRE CHIEF.
   A Chief of the Fire Department shall be appointed who in addition to his or
her duties as Chief of such Department, shall exercise the duties imposed by
law on the Fire Chief of the city.
(Ord. 1630, passed 5-6-2014; Ord. 1773, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 7-203 SAME; AUTHORITY; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Chief of the Fire Department, under the direction of the City Manager,
shall have complete control and supervision of the Fire Department and the
firefighting equipment of the city. He or she shall be responsible for the
proper organization, training, discipline and operation of the Fire Department
and the fire apparatus belonging to the city. The Chief shall have full power,
control and command over all persons at fires. As Fire Marshal of the city he
or she shall take the proper steps to correct and abate the fire hazards thus
reported, as provided by ordinance and the state laws; provided, the rules and
regulations of the State Fire Marshal shall be enforced by the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 1630, passed 5-6-2014; Ord. 1773, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 7-204 ASSISTANT CHIEF(S); DUTIES.
   The Assistant Chief(s) of the Fire Department in seniority order, in the
absence of the Chief thereof, shall have full responsibility and charge of the
operation of the Fire Department and fire apparatus of the city, and shall be
responsible to the City Manager for the discharge of his or her duties
hereunder.
(Ord. 1630, passed 5-6-2014; Ord. 1773, passed 6-21-2022; Ord. 1792, passed 5-
2-2023)
§ 7-205 MEMBERS OF FIRE DEPARTMENT; ELIGIBILITY.
   Members of the city’s Fire Department, designated as firefighters, shall be
residents of the city or persons residing within five miles of the city, unless
approved by the City Manager. No person shall be appointed a city firefighter
unless he or she is of good health and sound in mind and body. A membership
policy is voted on by the Chief and members and approved by the City Manager.
(Ord. 1630, passed 5-6-2014; Ord. 1773, passed 6-21-2022; Ord. 1792, passed 5-
2-2023)
§ 7-206 INSPECTORS.
   Not to exceed two members of the Fire Department may be designated as fire
inspectors. They shall be alert and observant in inspecting the city for fire
hazards as required by ordinance, and shall notify the Chief of any such fire
hazard or any condition which may start a fire.
(Ord. 1630, passed 5-6-2014; Ord. 1773, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 7-207 DISCIPLINE.
   (a)   Any subordinate officer or firefighter of the Department may be
disciplined in accordance with this membership policy. All firefighters shall
be required to remain active according to the membership policy.
   (b)   In the event any member of the Fire Department shall be absent from
any fire or fire drill for three consecutive times, without sufficient excuse,
he or she shall be removed from the Department.
(Ord. 1630, passed 5-6-2014; Ord. 1773, passed 6-21-2022; Ord. 1792, passed 5-
2-2023)
§ 7-208 FIRE DRILLS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department, shall, after due notice from the City
Manager, at such times and places as may be designated, hold a practice fire
run or drill of not less than two hours at least once every month during good
weather, and at such other times and places as may be determined to be
necessary for the proper training and discipline of the members of the Fire
Department.
(Ord. 1630, passed 5-6-2014; Ord. 1773, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 7-209 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall keep an accurate list of all
equipment belonging to the city for use of the Fire Department and he or she
shall maintain an accurate record of all fire alarms, practice drills, and the
attendance of members of the Department at the same. He or she shall further
make all reports required by the City Manager and by the laws of the state
which shall be necessary for the proper and effective discharge of the affairs
of the Department, and may include his or her recommendations for the
improvement of the firefighting services of the city.
(Ord. 1630, passed 5-6-2014; Ord. 1773, passed 6-21-2022)
ARTICLE 3: FIREFIGHTER’S RELIEF ASSOCIATION
Section
   
7-301   Fireman’s Relief Association
§ 7-301 FIREMAN’S RELIEF ASSOCIATION.
   (a)   The members of the Fire Department of the city shall be organized into
a Firefighter’s Relief Association, the same being a corporation organized
under the laws of the state as provided by K.S.A. 40-1702 through 40-1707.
   (b)   The association shall in all respects conduct its affairs in
accordance with the laws and its charter and bylaws which shall entitle its
members to the benefits coming to the Association.
(Ord. 1630, passed 5-6-2014; Ord. 1773, passed 6-21-2022)
CHAPTER VIII: HEALTH AND WELFARE
   Article
      
1.   BOARD OF HEALTH
      
2.   HEALTH NUISANCES
      
3.   ENVIRONMENTAL CODE
      
4.   JUNKED, ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
      
5.   WEEDS
      
6.   MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
      
7.   RODENT CONTROL
      
8.   OUTDOOR AMPLIFIED MUSIC
      
9.   INSURANCE PROCEEDS FUND
ARTICLE 1: BOARD OF HEALTH
Section
   
8-101   Board of Health created
   
8-102   City Health Officer; duties
§ 8-101 BOARD OF HEALTH CREATED.
   The Board of Health shall consist of a City Health Officer, who shall be a
practicing doctor of medicine and two additional members who shall be members
of the governing body. The City Health Officer and the two additional members
of the State Board of Health shall be appointed annually by the Mayor at the
first regular meeting of the governing body in April of each year, to serve for
one-year terms subject to confirmation by the City Commission; provided, that a
member of the governing body appointed to the State Board of Health shall have
no right to vote for or against his or her own confirmation. The Board shall
adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary to guide its operations.
The City Clerk shall be Secretary of the Board but shall have no vote. He or
she shall preserve its records, rules and regulations and shall issue all
orders and notices that may be required by ordinance or order of the Board.
§ 8-102 CITY HEALTH OFFICER; DUTIES.
   The City Health Officer shall:
   (a)   Cause health investigations and inspections to be made as required by
the laws of the state and of the city;
   (b)   Make recommendations to the Board respecting the improvement of health
of the inhabitants of the city;
   (c)   Make all health reports required by the State Department of Health and
Environment, Division of Health;
   (d)   Prepare an annual health report of the city for submission to the
governing body; and
   (e)   Perform such other duties as may be required of him or her under the
laws of the state or of the city.
ARTICLE 2: HEALTH NUISANCES
Section
   
8-201   Nuisances unlawful; defined
   
8-202   Public officer
   
8-203   Complaints; inquiry and inspection
   
8-204   Right of entry
   
8-205   Order of violation
   
8-206   Same; contents
   
8-207   Failure to comply; penalty
   
8-208   Abatement
   
8-209   Hearing
   
8-210   Costs assessed
§ 8-201 NUISANCES UNLAWFUL; DEFINED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit any nuisance
within the city as defined, without limitation, as follows:
   (a)   Filth, excrement, lumber, rocks, dirt, cans, paper, trash, metal or
any other offensive or disagreeable thing or substance thrown or left or
deposited upon any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, park, public or private
enclosure, or lot whether vacant or occupied;
   (b)   All dead animals not removed within 24 hours after death;
   (c)   Any place or structure or substance that emits or causes any
offensive, disagreeable or nauseous odors;
   (d)   All stagnant ponds or pools of water;
   (e)   All grass or weeds or other unsightly vegetation not usually
cultivated or grown for domestic use or to be marketed or for ornamental
purposes;
   (f)   Abandoned iceboxes or refrigerators kept on the premises under the
control of any person, or deposited on the sanitary landfill, or any icebox or
refrigerator not in actual use unless the door, opening or lid thereof is
unhinged or unfastened and removed therefrom;
   (g)   All articles or things whatsoever caused, kept, maintained or
permitted by any person to the injury, annoyance or inconvenience of the public
or of any neighborhood; and
   (h)   Any fence, structure, thing or substance placed upon or being upon any
street, sidewalk, alley or public ground so as to obstruct the same, except as
permitted by the laws of the city.
(K.S.A. 21-6204)
§ 8-202 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The City Manager shall designate a public officer to be charged with the
administration and enforcement of this article.
§ 8-203 COMPLAINTS; INQUIRY AND INSPECTION.
   The public officer shall make inquiry and inspection of premises upon
receiving a complaint or complaints in writing signed by two or more persons
stating that a nuisance exists and describing the same and where located, or is
informed that a nuisance may exist by the Board of Health, Chief of Police or
the Fire Chief. The public officer may make such inquiry and inspection when he
or she observes conditions that appear to constitute a nuisance. Upon making
any inquiry and inspection, the public officer shall make a written report of
findings.
§ 8-204 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The public officer has the right of access and entry upon private property
at any reasonable time to the extent allowed by law for the purpose of making
inquiry and inspection to determine if a nuisance exists.
§ 8-205 ORDER OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall serve upon the owner, any agent of the owner
of the property, or any other person, corporation, partnership or association
found by the public officer to be in violation of § 8-201, an order stating the
violation. The order shall be served on the owner or agent of such property by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service. If the
property is unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, then by mailing the
order by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of
the owner.
   (b)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24- month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first-class mail.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
§ 8-206 SAME; CONTENTS.
   (a)   The order shall state the condition(s) that is (are) in violation of §
8-201. The order shall also inform the person, corporation, partnership or
association that:
      (1)   He, she or they shall have ten days from the receipt of the order
to abate the condition(s) in violation of §
8-201; provided, however, that the governing body shall grant one or more
extensions of the ten-day period if the owner or agent of the property
demonstrates that due diligence is being exercised in the abatement of the
conditions in violation of § 8-201; or
      (2)   He, she or they have ten days from the receipt of the order, plus
any additional time granted under division (a)(1) above, to request a hearing
before the governing body or its designated representative of the matter as
provided by §
8-209.
   (b)   Failure to abate the condition(s) or to request a hearing within the
time allowed may result in prosecution as provided by §
8-207 and/or abatement of the condition(s) by the city as provided by § 8-208.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
§ 8-207 FAILURE TO COMPLY; PENALTY.
   Should the person, corporation, partnership or association fail to comply
with the order to abate the nuisance or request a hearing, the public officer
may file a complaint in the Municipal Court of the city against such person,
corporation, partnership or association and upon conviction of any violation of
provisions of §
8-201, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100, or be imprisoned not to exceed
30 days or be both fined and imprisoned. Each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues after the order to abate has been served shall
constitute an additional or separate offense.
§ 8-208 ABATEMENT.
   (a)   In addition to, or as an alternative to prosecution as provided in §
8-207, the public officer may seek to remedy violations of this article in the
following manner. If a person to whom an order has been served pursuant to §
8-205 has neither alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation nor
requested a hearing before the governing body within the time periods specified
in §
8-206, the public officer may present a resolution to the governing body for
adoption authorizing the public officer or other agents of the city to abate
the conditions causing the violation at the end of ten days after passage of
the resolution. The resolution shall further provide that the costs incurred by
the city shall be charged against the lot or parcel of ground on which the
nuisance was located as provided in §
8-210.
   (b)   A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the person in violation
in one of the following ways:
      (1)   Personal service upon the person in violation;
      (2)   Certified/restricted mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested; or
      (3)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the
same cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an
affidavit to that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the
City Clerk, and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the
same once each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper
and by posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition
exists.
   (c)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first-class mail.
§ 8-209 HEARING.
   If a hearing is requested within the ten-day period as provided in §
8-206, such request shall be made in writing to the governing body. Failure to
make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a waiver of the person’s
right to contest the findings of the public officer. The hearing shall be held
by the governing body or its designated representative as soon as possible
after the filing of the request therefor, and the person shall be advised by
the city of the time and place of the hearing at least five days in advance
thereof. At any such hearing, the person may be represented by counsel, and the
person and the city may introduce such witnesses and evidence as is deemed
necessary and proper by the governing body or its designated representative.
The hearing need not be conducted according to the formal rules of evidence.
Upon conclusion of the hearing, the findings of the governing body or its
designated representative shall be prepared in resolution form, adopted by the
governing body, and the resolution shall be served upon the person in the
manner provided in §
8-208.
§ 8-210 COSTS ASSESSED.
   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to §
8-208, the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent by certified
mail, return receipt requested, of the total cost of the abatement or removal
incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the payment is due
within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also may recover the
cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section. The
notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or abatement is not
paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or removal shall be
collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or
shall be assessed as special assessments and charged against the lot or parcel
of land on which the nuisance was located; and the City Clerk, at the time of
certifying other city taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs; and
the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county against
such lot or parcel of land; and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer
and paid to the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may
pursue collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner
provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, but only until the full
cost and applicable interest has been paid in full.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
ARTICLE 3: ENVIRONMENTAL CODE
Section
   
8-301   Title
   
8-302   Legislative finding of fact
   
8-303   Purpose
   
8-304   Rules of construction
   
8-305   Definitions
   
8-306   Public officer
   
8-307   Enforcement standards
   
8-308   Unlawful acts
   
8-309   Order of violation
   
8-310   Penalty
   
8-311   Abatement
   
8-312   Hearing
   
8-313   Appeals
   
8-314   Costs assessed
   
8-315   Construction
§ 8-301 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Environmental Code”.
§ 8-302 LEGISLATIVE FINDING OF FACT.
   The governing body has found that there exists within the city unsightly and
hazardous conditions due to: dilapidation, deterioration or disrepair of walls,
siding, fences or structure exteriors; accumulations increasing the hazards of
accidents or other calamities; structural defects; uncleanliness; unsightly
stored or parked material, equipment, supplies, machinery, vehicles or parts
thereof. Such conditions are inimical to the general welfare of the community
in that they have a blighting influence on the adjoining properties, the
neighborhood and the city, or are injurious to the health and safety of the
residents of the city. The governing body desires to promote the public health,
safety and welfare by the repair, removal, abatement and regulation of such
conditions in the manner hereafter provided.
§ 8-303 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to protect, preserve, upgrade and regulate
the environmental quality of industrial, commercial and residential
neighborhoods in this city, by outlawing conditions which are injurious to the
health, safety, welfare or aesthetic characteristics of the neighborhoods and
to provide for the administration and enforcement thereof.
§ 8-304 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following rules of construction shall
apply.
   (a)   Any part thereof. Whenever the words premises, structure, building or
yard are used, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the
words “or any part thereof”.
   (b)   Gender. Words of gender shall be construed to mean neuter, feminine or
masculine, as may be applicable.
   (c)   Number. Words of number shall be construed to mean singular or plural,
as may be applicable.
   (d)   Tense. Words of tense shall be construed to mean present or future, as
may be applicable.
   (e)   Shall. The word shall is mandatory and not permissive.
§ 8-305 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that is not currently registered
or tagged pursuant to K.S.A. 8-126 to 8-149 inclusive, as amended; or parked in
violation of the ordinance; or incapable of moving under its own power; or in a
junked or wrecked condition.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A secondary structure detached from the principal
structure but on the same premises, including, but not limited to, garages,
sheds, barns or outbuildings.
   COMMERCIAL or INDUSTRIAL. Used or intended to be used primarily for other
than residential purposes.
   DILAPIDATION, DETERIORATION or DISREPAIR. Any condition characterized by,
but not limited to, holes, breaks, rot, decay, crumbling, cracking, peeling or
flaking paint, rusting or other evidence of physical damage, neglect, lack of
maintenance, excessive use or weathering.
   EXTERIOR. Those parts of a structure that are exposed to the weather or
subject to contact with the elements; including, but not limited to, sidings,
facings, veneers, masonry, roofs, foundations, porches, screens, shutters,
windows, doors or signs.
   GARBAGE. Without limitation, any accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable
waste matter that results from the handling, preparation, cooking, serving,
delivering, storage or use of foodstuffs.
   PERSON. Any individual, individuals, corporation, partnership,
unincorporated association, other business organization, committee, board,
trustee, receiver, agent or other representative who has charge, care, control
or responsibility for maintenance of any premises, regardless of status as
owner, renter, tenant or lessee, whether or not in possession.
   PREMISES. Any lot, plot or parcel of land including the structures thereon.
PREMISES shall also mean any lot, plot or parcel of land without any structures
thereon.
   REFUSE. Garbage and trash.
   RESIDENTIAL. Used or intended to be used primarily for human habitation.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or is attached to something having a location on the ground, including
any appurtenances belonging thereto.
   TRASH. Combustible waste consisting of, but not limited to, papers, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, furniture, bedding, rags, leaves, yard
trimmings or tree branches and non-combustible waste consisting of, but not
limited to, metal, tin, cans, glass, crockery, plastics, mineral matter, ashes,
clinkers, or street rubbish and sweepings.
   WEATHERED. Deterioration caused by exposure to the elements.
   YARD. The area of the premises not occupied by any structure.
§ 8-306 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The City Manager shall designate a public officer to be charged with the
administration and enforcement of this article.
§ 8-307 ENFORCEMENT STANDARDS.
   No person shall be found in violation of this article unless the public
officer, after a reasonable inquiry and inspection of the premises, believes
that conditions exist of a quality and appearance not commensurate with the
character of the neighborhood. Such belief must be supported by evidence of a
level of maintenance significantly below that of the rest of the neighborhood.
Such evidence shall include conditions declared unlawful under §
8-308, but shall not include conditions that are not readily visible from any
public place or from any surrounding private property.
§ 8-308 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow to exist on any
residential, commercial or industrial premises, conditions that are injurious
to the health, safety or general welfare of the residents of the community or
conditions that are detrimental to adjoining property, the neighborhood or the
city.
   (b)   For the purpose of fair and efficient enforcement and administration,
such unlawful conditions shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   Exterior conditions (yard) shall include, but not be limited to,
the scattering over or the parking, leaving, depositing or accumulation on the
yard of any of the following:
         (A)   Lumber, wire, metal, tires, concrete, masonry products, plastic
products, supplies, equipment, machinery, auto parts, junk or refuse;
         (B)   Abandoned motor vehicles;
         (C)   Furniture, stoves, refrigerators, televisions, sinks, bicycles,
lawn mowers or other such items of personal property; or
         (D)   Nauseous substances, carcasses of dead animals or places where
animals are kept in an offensive manner.
      (2)   Exterior conditions (structure) shall include, but not be limited
to, deteriorated, dilapidated or unsightly:
         (A)   Exteriors of any structure;
         (B)   Exteriors of any accessory structure; or
         (C)   Fences, walls or retaining walls.
§ 8-309 ORDER OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall serve upon the owner, any agent of the owner
of the property or any other person, corporation, partnership or association
found by the public officer to be in violation of § 8-308 an order stating the
violation. The order shall be served on the owner or agent of such property by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service. If the
property is unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, then by mailing the
order by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of
the owner.
   (b)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24- month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first class mail. The order shall
state:
      (1)   The condition that has caused the violation of this article; and
      (2)   That the person in violation shall have:
         (A)   Ten days from the receipt of the order to alleviate the exterior
conditions (yard) violation; and/or
         (B)   Forty-five days from the receipt of the order to alleviate the
exterior conditions (structure) violation; or
         (C)   Ten days from the receipt of the order, plus any additional time
granted under division (c) of this section, to request, as provided in §
8-312 a hearing before the governing body or its designated representative on
the matter.
   (c)   Provided, however, that the governing body shall grant one or more
extensions to the time periods stated in divisions (b)(2)(A) and (b)(2)(B)
above, if the owner or agent of the property demonstrates that due diligence is
being exercised in the abatement of the conditions that have caused the
violation of this article; and
   (d)   That failure to alleviate the condition or to request a hearing may
result in prosecution under §
8-310 and/or abatement of the condition by the city according to §
8-311 with the costs assessed against the property under §
8-314.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
§ 8-310 PENALTY.
   The public officer may file a complaint in the Municipal Court against any
person found to be in violation of §
8-308, provided however, that such person shall first have been sent an order
of violation as provided in §
8-309 and that the person has neither alleviated the conditions causing the
alleged violation nor requested a hearing before the governing body within the
time periods specified in § 8-309. Upon such complaint in the Municipal Court,
any person found to be in violation of §
8-308 shall upon conviction be punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor more
than $100, or by imprisonment, for not more than 30 days, or by both such fine
and imprisonment, for each offense. For the purposes of this article, a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which such
violation is permitted to exist.
§ 8-311 ABATEMENT.
   (a)   In addition to, or as an alternative to prosecution as provided in §
8-310, the public officer may seek to remedy violations of this article in the
following manner. If a person to whom an order has been served pursuant to §
8-309 has neither alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation nor
requested a hearing before the governing body within the time periods specified
in §
8-309, the public officer may present a resolution to the governing body for
adoption authorizing the public officer or other agents of the city to abate
the conditions causing the violation at the end of ten days after passage of
the resolution. The resolution shall further provide that the costs incurred by
the city shall be charged against the lot or parcel of ground on which the
nuisance was located as provided in §
8-314.
   (b)   A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the person in violation
in one of the following ways:
      (1)   Personal service upon the person in violation;
      (2)   Certified mail, return receipt requested; or
      (3)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the
same cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an
affidavit to that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the
City Clerk, and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the
same once each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper
and by posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition
exists.
   (c)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first-class mail.
§ 8-312 HEARING.
   If a hearing is requested within the ten-day period as provided in §
8-309, such request shall be made in writing to the governing body. Failure to
make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a waiver of the person’s
right to contest the findings of the public officer. The hearing shall be held
by the governing body or its designated representative as soon as possible
after the filing of the request therefor, and the person shall be advised by
the city of the time and place of the hearing at least five days in advance
thereof. At any such hearing, the person may be represented by counsel, and the
person and the city may introduce such witnesses and evidence as is deemed
necessary and proper by the governing body or its designated representative.
The hearing need not be conducted according to the formal rules of evidence.
Upon conclusion of the hearing, the findings of the governing body or its
designated representative shall be prepared in resolution form, adopted by the
governing body, and the resolution shall be served upon the person in the
manner provided in §
8-311.
§ 8-313 APPEALS.
   Any person affected by any determination of the governing body under §§
8-311 and
8-312 may appeal such determination in the manner provided by K.S.A. 60-2101.
§ 8-314 COSTS ASSESSED.
   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to §
8-311, the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent by certified
mail, return receipt requested, of the total cost of the abatement or removal
incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the payment is due
within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also may recover the
cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section. The
notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or abatement is not
paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or removal shall be
collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or
shall be assessed as special assessments and charged against the lot or parcel
of land on which the nuisance was located and the City Clerk, at the time of
certifying other city taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs and
the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county against
such lot or parcel of land and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer
and paid to the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may
pursue collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner
provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, but only until the full
cost and applicable interest has been paid in full.
§ 8-315 CONSTRUCTION.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers
of the courts or of any department of the city to enforce any provisions of its
laws nor to prevent or punish violations thereof. The powers conferred by this
article shall be in addition to and supplemental to the powers conferred by the
State Constitution, by any other law or by ordinance.
ARTICLE 4: JUNKED, ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
Section
   
8-401   Findings of governing body
   
8-402   Definitions
   
8-403   Nuisances unlawful; defined; exceptions
   
8-404   Public officer
   
8-405   Complaints; inquiry and inspection
   
8-406   Right of entry
   
8-407   Order of violation
   
8-408   Same; contents
   
8-409   Failure to comply; penalty
   
8-410   Abatement
   
8-411   Disposition of vehicle; recovery of vehicle
   
8-412   Hearing
   
8-413   Costs assessed
§ 8-401 FINDINGS OF GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body finds that junked, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative or
abandoned vehicles affect the health, safety and general welfare of citizens of
the city because they:
   (a)   Serve as a breeding ground for flies, mosquitoes, rats and other
insects and rodents;
   (b)   Are a danger to persons, particularly children, because of broken
glass, sharp metal protrusions, insecure mounting on blocks, jacks or other
supports;
   (c)   Are a ready source of fire and explosion;
   (d)   Encourage pilfering and theft;
   (e)   Constitute a blighting influence upon the area in which they are
located; and
   (f)   Constitute a fire hazard because they frequently block access for fire
equipment to adjacent buildings and structures.
§ 8-402 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. Left unattended on a public right-of-way of other public property
for at least 48 hours, or left on private property without the express or
implied permission of the owner.
   INOPERABLE. A condition of being junked, wrecked, wholly or partially
dismantled, discarded, abandoned or unable to perform the function or purpose
for which it was originally constructed.
   VEHICLE. Without limitation, any automobile, truck, tractor or motorcycle
which as originally built contained an engine, regardless of whether it
contains an engine at any other time.
§ 8-403 NUISANCES UNLAWFUL; DEFINED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit any motor vehicle
nuisance within the city.
   (a)   (1)   A MOTOR VEHICLE NUISANCE is any motor vehicle that is not
currently registered or tagged pursuant to K.S.A. 8-126 to 8-149 inclusive, as
amended; or parked in violation of city ordinance; or incapable of moving under
its own power; or in a junked, wrecked or inoperable condition.
      (2)   Any one of the following conditions shall raise the presumption
that a vehicle is junked, wrecked or inoperable:
         (A)   Absence of a current registration plate upon the vehicle;
         (B)   Placement of the vehicle or parts thereof upon jacks, blocks or
other supports; or
         (C)   Absence of one or more parts of the vehicle necessary for the
lawful operation of the vehicle upon street or highway.
   (b)   The provisions of this article shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any motor vehicle that is enclosed in a garage or other building;
      (2)   To the parking or storage of a vehicle inoperable for a period of
30 consecutive days or less; or
      (3)   To any person conducting a business enterprise in compliance with
existing zoning regulations or who places such vehicles behind screening of
sufficient size, strength and density to screen such vehicles from the view of
the public and to prohibit ready access to stored vehicles by children,
however, nothing in this division (b)(3) shall be construed to authorize the
maintenance of a public nuisance.
§ 8-404 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The City Manager shall designate a public officer to be charged with the
administration and enforcement of this article.
§ 8-405 COMPLAINTS; INQUIRY AND INSPECTION.
   (a)   The public officer shall make inquiry and inspection of premises upon
receiving a complaint or complaints in writing signed by two or more persons
stating that a nuisance exists and describing the same and where located or is
informed that a nuisance may exist by the Board of Health, Chief of Police or
the Fire Chief.
   (b)   The public officer may make such inquiry and inspection when he or she
observes conditions that appear to constitute a nuisance. Upon making any
inquiry and inspection, the public officer shall make a written report of
findings.
§ 8-406 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The public officer has the right of access and entry upon private property
at any reasonable time for the purpose of making inquiry and inspection to
determine if a nuisance exists.
§ 8-407 ORDER OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall serve upon the owner, any agent of the owner
of the property, or any other person, corporation, partnership or association
found by the public officer to be in violation of § 8-403 an order stating the
violation. The order shall be served on the owner or agent of such property by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service. If the
property is unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, then by mailing the
order by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of
the owner.
   (b)   (1)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has
failed to accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice
or order sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period,
the governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any
further orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide
notice of the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door
hangers, conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail.
      (2)   If the property is unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident,
notice provided by this section shall be given by telephone communication or
first-class mail.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
§ 8-408 SAME; CONTENTS.
   (a)   The order shall state the condition(s) which is (are) in violation of
§
8-403.
   (b)   The order shall also inform the person, corporation, partnership or
association that:
      (1)   He, she or they shall have ten days from receipt of the order to
abate the condition(s) in violation of §
8-403; or
      (2)   He, she or they have ten days from receipt of the order to request
a hearing before the governing body or its designated representative of the
matter as provided by §
8-412;
   (c)   Failure to abate the condition(s) or to request a hearing within the
time allowed may result in prosecution as provided by §
8-409 and/or abatement of the condition(s) by the city as provided by §
8-410.
§ 8-409 FAILURE TO COMPLY; PENALTY.
   Should the person fail to comply with the order to abate the nuisance or
request a hearing, the public officer may file a complaint in the Municipal
Court of the city against such person and upon conviction of any violation of
provisions of §
8-403, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100, or be imprisoned not to exceed
30 days, or be both fined and imprisoned. Each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues after notice has been served shall constitute an
additional or separate offense.
§ 8-410 ABATEMENT.
   (a)   In addition to, or as an alternative to prosecution as provided in §
8-409, the public officer may seek to remedy violations of this article in the
following manner. If a person to whom an order has been sent pursuant to §
8-407 has neither alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation or
requested a hearing before the governing body within the time period specified
in §
8-408, the public officer may present a resolution to the governing body for
adoption authorizing the public officer or other agents of the city to abate
the conditions causing the violation at the end of ten days after passage of
the resolution.
   (b)   (1)   The resolution shall further provide that the costs incurred by
the city shall be charged against the lot or parcel of ground on which the
nuisance was located as provided in §
8-413.
      (2)   A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the person in
violation in one of the following ways:
         (A)   Personal service upon the person in violation;
         (B)   Service by certified mail, return receipt requested; or
         (C)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the
same cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an
affidavit to that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the
City Clerk, and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the
same once each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper
and by posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition
exists.
      (3)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed
to accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or
order sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first-class mail.
§ 8-411 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE; RECOVERY OF VEHICLE.
   (a)   Disposition of any motor vehicle removed and abated from private
property pursuant to this article shall be as provided by K.S.A. 8-1102, and
amendments thereto.
   (b)   Any person attempting to recover a motor vehicle impounded as provided
in this article, shall show proof of valid registration and ownership of the
motor vehicle before the motor vehicle shall be released. In addition, the
person desiring the release of the motor vehicle shall pay all reasonable costs
associated with the impoundment of the motor vehicle, including transportation
and storage fees, prior to the release of the motor vehicle.
§ 8-412 HEARING.
   (a)   If a hearing is requested within the ten-day period as provided in §
8-408, such request shall be made in writing to the governing body. Failure to
make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a waiver of the person’s
right to contest the findings of the public officer.
   (b)   The hearing shall be held by the governing body or its designated
representative as soon as possible after the filing of the request therefor,
and the person shall be advised by the city of the time and place of the
hearing at least five days in advance thereof. At any such hearing, the person
may be represented by counsel, and the person and the city may introduce such
witnesses and evidence as is deemed necessary and proper by the governing body
or its designated representative.
   (c)   The hearing need not be conducted according to the formal rules of
evidence. Upon conclusion of the hearing, the findings of the governing body or
its designated representative shall be prepared in resolution form, adopted by
the governing body, and the resolution shall be served upon the person in the
matter provided in §
8-410.
§ 8-413 COSTS ASSESSED.
   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to §
8-410, the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent by certified
mail, return receipt requested, of the total cost of the abatement or removal
incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the payment is due
within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also may recover the
cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section. The
notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or abatement is not
paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or removal shall be
collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or
shall be assessed as special assessments and charged against the lot or parcel
of land on which the nuisance was located and the City Clerk, at the time of
certifying other city taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs and
the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county against
such lot or parcel of land and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer
and paid to the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may
pursue collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner
provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, but only until the full
cost and applicable interest has been paid in full.
ARTICLE 5: WEEDS
Section
   
8-501   Weeds to be removed
   
8-502   Definitions
   
8-503   Public officer; notice to remove
   
8-504   Abatement; assessment of costs
   
8-505   Right of entry
   
8-506   Unlawful interference
   
8-507   Noxious weeds
§ 8-501 WEEDS TO BE REMOVED.
   No owner, agent, lessee, tenant or other person occupying or having charge
or control of any premises shall permit weeds to remain upon said premises or
any area between the property lines of said premises and the centerline of any
adjacent street or alley, including, but not specifically limited to,
sidewalks, streets, alleys easements, rights-of-way and all other areas, public
or private. In cases where a frontage road adjoins a highway, such
responsibility shall extend to the right-of-way line of the highway. All weeds
as hereinafter defined are hereby declared a nuisance and are subject to
abatement as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 1440, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 8-502 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS. As used herein, means any of the following:
      (1)   Brush and woody vines shall be classified as weeds;
      (2)   Weeds and grasses that may attain such large growth as to become,
when dry, a fire menace to adjacent improved property;
      (3)   Weeds that bear or may bear seeds of a downy or wingy nature;
      (4)   Weeds that are located in an area that harbors rats, insects,
animals, reptiles or any other creature that either may or does constitute a
menace to health, public safety or welfare; and
      (5)   Weeds and grasses on or about residential property that, because of
its height, has a blighting influence on the neighborhood. Any such weeds and
grasses shall be presumed to be blighting if they exceed 12 inches in height.
§ 8-503 PUBLIC OFFICER; NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (a)   The City Manager shall designate a public officer to be charged with
the administration and enforcement of this article. The public officer or
authorized assistant shall give written notice to the owner, occupant or agent
of such property by certified mail, return receipt requested or by personal
service to cut or destroy weeds; provided, however, that if the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, such notice shall be sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the
owner. Such notice shall be given only once per calendar year.
   (b)   The notice to be given hereunder shall state:
      (1)   That the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property is in
violation of the city weed control law;
      (2)   That the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property is
ordered to cut or destroy the weeds within ten days of the receipt of the
notice;
      (3)   That the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property may
request a hearing before the governing body or its designated representative
within five days of the receipt of the notice or, if the owner is unknown or a
nonresident, and there is no resident agent, ten days after notice has been
published by the City Clerk in the official city newspaper;
      (4)   That if the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property
does not cut or destroy the weeds or fails to request a hearing within the
allowed time, the city or its authorized agent will cut or destroy the weeds
and assess the cost of the cutting or destroying the weeds, including a
reasonable administrative fee, against the owner, occupant or agent in charge
of the property;
      (5)   That the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property will
be given an opportunity to pay the assessment, and if it is not paid within 30
days of such notice, it will be added to the property tax as a special
assessment;
      (6)   That no further notice will be given during the current calendar
year prior to the removal of weeds from the property; and
      (7)   That the public officer should be contacted if there are questions
regarding the order.
   (c)   If there is a change in the record owner of title to property
subsequent to the giving of notice pursuant to this section, the city may not
recover any costs or levy an assessment for the costs incurred by the cutting
or destruction of weeds on such property unless the new record owner of title
to such property is provided notice as required by this article.
(K.S.A. 12-1617f)
§ 8-504 ABATEMENT; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (a)   If the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property has neither
alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation nor requested a hearing
within the time periods specified in §
8-503, the public officer or an authorized assistant shall abate or remove the
conditions causing the violation.
   (b)   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to this section,
the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent by certified mail,
return receipt requested, of the total cost of the abatement or removal
incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the payment is due
within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also may recover the
cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section.
   (c)   The notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or
abatement is not paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or
removal shall be collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and
amendments thereto, or shall be assessed as special assessments and charged
against the lot or parcel of land on which the nuisance was located and the
City Clerk, at the time of certifying other city taxes, shall certify the
unpaid portion of the costs and the County Clerk shall extend the same on the
tax rolls of the county against such lot or parcel of land and it shall be
collected by the County Treasurer and paid to the city as other city taxes are
collected and paid. The city may pursue collection both by levying a special
assessment and in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments
thereto, but only until the full cost and applicable interest has been paid in
full.
(K.S.A. 12-1617f)
§ 8-505 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The public officer and the public officer’s authorized assistants,
employees, contracting agents or other representatives are hereby expressly
authorized to enter upon private property at all reasonable hours for the
purpose of cutting, destroying and/or removing such weeds in a manner not
inconsistent with this article.
§ 8-506 UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or to attempt to
prevent the public officer or the public officer’s authorized representative
from entering upon any such lot or piece of ground or from proceeding with such
cutting and destruction. Such interference shall constitute a code violation or
misdemeanor.
§ 8-507 NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   (a)   Nothing in this article shall affect or impair the rights of the city
under the provisions of K.S.A. Ch. 2, Art. 13, relating to the control and
eradication of certain noxious weeds.
   (b)   For the purpose of this article, the term NOXIOUS WEEDS shall mean
kudzu (Pueraria lobata), field bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea repens), hoary cress (Cardaria draba), Canada thistle
(Cirsium arvense), quackgrass (Agropyron repens), leafy spurge (Euphorbia
esula), bur ragweed (Ambrosia grayii), pignut (Hoffmannseggia densiflora), musk
(nodding) thistle (Carduus nutans L.), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense) and
sericea lespedeza (Lespedeza cuneata).
(K.S.A. 2-1314, K.A.R. 4-8-44)
ARTICLE 6: MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
Section
   
8-601   Title
   
8-602   General
   
8-603   Declaration of policy
   
8-604   Definitions
   
8-605   Duty of occupant or owner of occupied or unoccupied building and its
premises or vacant premises
   
8-606   Regulations for the use and occupancy of dwellings
   
8-607   Maintenance and repair; dwellings
   
8-608   Designation of unfit dwellings
   
8-609   Designation of blighted premises (residential and non-residential)
   
8-610   Designation of blighted buildings and premises (non-residential)
   
8-611   Inspection of buildings and structures, and premises
   
8-612   Notice of violations; procedures
   
8-613   Public officer: authority
   
8-614   Governing body; authority
   
8-615   Order to correct and/or repair, remove, or demolish
   
8-616   Demolition by public officer; procedure and costs
   
8-617   Conflict of laws; effect or partial invalidity
   
8-618   Governing body; appeals
   
8-619   Right of petition
§ 8-601 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Minimum Standard for Housing and
Premises Code”, and will be referred to herein as “this code”.
§ 8-602 GENERAL.
   Buildings used in whole or in part as a home or residence of a single family
or person and every building used in whole or in part as a home or residence of
two or more persons or families living in separate apartments and all premises,
either residential or nonresidential, shall conform to the requirements of this
code.
§ 8-603 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The governing body declares the purpose of this code is to protect, preserve
and promote the physical and mental health of the people; investigate and
control communicable diseases; regulate privately- and publicly-owned
structures or dwellings and all premises for the purpose of sanitation, public
health and general appearance; protect the safety of the people; and promote
the general welfare by legislation that shall be applicable to all dwellings,
structures and premises now in existence or hereafter constructed or developed
and which legislation:
   (a)   Establishes minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities for
light, ventilation and heating, for safety from fire, for the use and location
and amount of space for human occupancy, and for safe and sanitary maintenance;
   (b)   Establishes standards concerning unsightly and blighted buildings and
premises, both residential and nonresidential structures;
   (c)   Determines the responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants;
and
   (d)   Provides for the administration and enforcement thereof.
§ 8-604 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
following definitions shall apply to the enforcement of this code.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partially underground, but having
less than half its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of the
adjoining ground.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partially or wholly underground, and
having half or more than half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
   DWELLING. Any building that is wholly or partially used or intended to be
used for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided, that temporary
housing hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used, or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   HABITABLE DWELLING. Any structure or part thereof that shall be used as a
home or place of abode by one or more persons.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room designed to be used for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking purposes, excluding bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls and storage
places, or other similar places, not used by persons for extended periods.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of insects, rodents
or other pests.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, owns or has control of a premises
or of a building or structure or part thereof, in which dwelling units or
rooming units are let.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation, who jointly or severally along with
others, shall be in actual possession of, or have charge, care and control of
any structure or dwelling unit or premises within the city as owner, employee
or agent of the owner, or as trustee or guardian of the estate or person of the
title holder, and such person shall be deemed and taken to be the owner or
owner of such property within the true intent and meaning of this code and
shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this article to the same extent
as the record owner and notice to any such person shall be deemed and taken to
be a good and sufficient notice as if such person or persons were actually the
record owner or owner of such property.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, corporation, association or
partnership.
   PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and equipment:
gas or fuel pipes; gas or fuel burning equipment; water pipes; garbage disposal
units; waste pipes; water closets; sinks; installed dishwashers; lavatories;
bathtubs; shower baths; installed clothes-washing machines; catch basins;
drains; vents; and any other similar supplied fixtures, together with all
connections to water, sewer, gas or fuel lines.
   PREMISES. Any lot or land area, either residential or nonresidential, not
covered by a structure and which is subject to a city tax in part or in whole.
   PUBLIC OFFICER. The person designated by the City Mayor, Council,
Commission, City Manager or City Administrator.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of a dwelling containing one or
more rooming units in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father,
or sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   REFUSE. For the purpose of this article, REFUSE shall include garbage and
trash.
      (1)   GARBAGE. Any accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable waste
matter that attends the preparation of, use of, cooking of, delivering of, or
storage of meats, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable.
      (2)   TRASH (COMBUSTIBLE). For the purpose of this article, COMBUSTIBLE
TRASH shall mean waste consisting of papers, cartons, boxes, barrels, wood and
excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture, bedding and leaves,
or any other combustible materials.
      (3)   TRASH (NON-COMBUSTIBLE). For the purpose of this article, NON-
COMBUSTIBLE TRASH shall mean waste consisting of metals, tin cans, glass,
crockery, other mineral refuse and ashes and street rubbish and sweepings,
dirt, sand, concrete scrap or any other non-combustible material.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to
something having a location on the ground.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter that is designed to be transportable and that is not attached to the
ground, house or building or another structure, or to any utilities system on
the same premises for more than 30 consecutive days, except when located in a
mobile home court duly licensed under laws of the city.
   WORDS, MEANINGS. Whenever the words “dwelling”, “dwelling unit”, “rooming
house”, “rooming unit”, “premises” are used in this article, they shall be
construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof”.
§ 8-605 DUTY OF OCCUPANT OR OWNER OF OCCUPIED OR UNOCCUPIED BUILDING AND ITS
PREMISES OR VACANT PREMISES.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the owner of every occupied or unoccupied
dwelling, building and premises, or vacant premises, including all yards, lawns
and courts to keep such property clean and free from any accumulation of filth,
rubbish, garbage or any similar matter as covered by §§
8-608 and
8-609.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of each occupant of a dwelling unit to keep in
clean condition the portion of the property that he or she occupies and of
which he or she has exclusive control, to comply with the rules and
regulations, and to place all garbage and refuse in proper containers. Where
care of the premises is not the responsibility of the occupant, then the owner
is responsible for violations of this code applicable to the premises.
   (c)   If receptacles are not provided by the owner, then the occupant shall
provide receptacles as may be necessary to contain all garbage and trash.
   (d)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single-dwelling unit shall
be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests
therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling
containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the unit primarily infested.
   (e)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, whenever
infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a
vermin-proof or reasonable insect-proof condition, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner and operator.
   (f)   Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the dwelling units in
any dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two
or more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of
the owner.
§ 8-606 REGULATIONS FOR THE USE AND OCCUPANCY OF DWELLINGS.
   (a)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for
occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit for the purpose of living, sleeping,
cooking or eating therein, that does not comply with the following
requirements.
   (b)   The following requirements are hereby declared essential to the health
and safety of the occupants of such dwelling or dwelling unit.
      (1)   Attached garages or non-dwelling areas. All non-dwelling
occupancies shall be separated from the dwelling unit by a fire-resistant wall
and if the dwelling and garage are covered by a common or connecting roof, then
the ceiling also must have a fire resistance rating of not less than one hour
as defined in the Building Code.
      (2)   Basement or cellar. The basement or cellar of any dwelling shall be
reasonably dry and ventilated and shall be kept free from rubbish accumulation.
      (3)   Basement dwelling units. The use of basements or cellars for
dwelling units is prohibited unless they comply with division (b)(18) below
governing ventilation, provided however, if occupied at the time of the passage
of this code and if it complies with all other provisions of this code, the
public officer may approve less than the required windows, if in his or her
opinion, the window area is not detrimental to the occupants.
      (4)   Bathing facilities. Every dwelling unit shall contain within a room
which affords privacy to a person in the room, a bathtub or shower in good
working condition and properly connected to an approved water and sewer system.
      (5)   Boarding and rooming houses. No room shall be used for sleeping
purposes unless the ceiling height is at least seven feet and there are at
least 400 cubic feet of air space for each occupant over six years of age. For
sleeping rooms with sloping ceilings, the ceiling height shall be at least
seven feet over at least 50% of the floor area.
         (A)   Bathing facilities shall be provided in the form of a tub or
shower for each eight occupants. Separate facilities shall be provided for each
sex and plainly marked.
         (B)   A flush water closet shall be provided for each six occupants
and shall be separated with the separate access from bathing facilities if more
than four occupants are served by each. Separate facilities shall be provided
for each sex and shall be plainly marked.
      (6)   Drainage. All courts, yards or other areas on the premises of any
dwelling shall be so graded and drained that there is no pooling of the water
thereon. Properly constructed wading and swimming pools and fish ponds are
excepted from this section.
      (7)   Entrances.
         (A)   There shall be for each dwelling unit a normally used separate
access either to a hallway, stairway or street that is safe and in good repair.
         (B)   A secondary exit to the ground shall be available in case of
fire through windows, porch roofs, ladders or any combination that is free of
hazard or egress.
      (8)   Floor area. Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square
feet of floor space for the first occupant thereof and at least 100 additional
square feet of floor space for every additional occupant thereof. The floor
space shall be calculated on the basis of total habitable room area, inside
measurements. No floor space shall be included in determining habitable room
area over which the ceiling is less than seven feet above the floor for the
purpose of this division (b)(8).
      (9)   Garbage and trash receptacles. Every dwelling and every dwelling
unit shall be provided with such receptacles, not exceeding 32-gallon capacity,
as may be necessary to contain all garbage and trash and such receptacles shall
at all times be maintained in good repair.
      (10)   Heating. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit shall be so
constructed, insulated and maintained and be provided by owner or occupant with
heating units so that it is capable of reaching an air temperature of 70°F
under ordinary winter conditions. The chimney of the dwelling or dwelling unit
shall be maintained in good order and the owner of the approved heating
equipment shall maintain it in good order and repair.
      (11)   Kitchen sink. In every dwelling unit containing two or more rooms,
there shall be at least one kitchen sink with public water under pressure and
connected to the public sewer, or if that sewer system is not available, to a
sewage disposal system approved by the City Health Department.
      (12)   Lavatory facilities. Every dwelling unit shall contain within its
walls a lavatory basin in good working condition and properly connected to an
approved water and sewer system and located in the same room as the required
flush water closet or as near to the room as practicable.
      (13)   Lighting. Every habitable room shall have a ceiling electric
outlet and a duplex outlet in wall or floor, or at least two wall or floor
outlets.
      (14)   Lighting of toilets and bathrooms. Every toilet and every bathroom
in every dwelling shall have at least one electric light in either the ceiling
or on the wall.
      (15)   Plumbing. All plumbing, water closets and other plumbing fixtures
in every dwelling or dwelling unit shall be maintained in good working order.
      (16)   Privies. All pit privies, privy vaults, “dry hopper” sewer-
connected privies and frost-proof closets are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
      (17)   Toilet facilities. There shall be at least one flush water closet
in good working condition for each dwelling unit, which flush water closet
shall be located within the dwelling and in a room that affords privacy.
      (18)   Ventilation. Every habitable room in a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall contain a window or windows openable directly to the outside air and the
total area of such window or windows shall be not less than 5% of the floor
area of such room. An approved system of mechanical ventilation or air
conditioning may be used in lieu of openable windows. Such system shall be
capable of providing not less than four air changes per hour, except that in
toilet compartments such system shall provide a complete air change every five
minutes and be automatically put in operation when the toilet compartment light
is in the “on” position.
      (19)   Water heating facilities. Every dwelling shall have supplied water
heating facilities that are installed in an approved manner and are maintained
and operated in a safe and good working condition and are properly connected
with the hot water lines to the kitchen sink, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
      (20)   Windows and doors. Every window and exterior door shall be
reasonably weather-tight, lockable and rodent-proof and shall be kept in good
working condition and good repair.
§ 8-607 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR; DWELLINGS.
   Every dwelling and every part thereof shall be maintained in good repair by
the owner or agent and be fit for human habitation. The roof shall be
maintained so as not to leak and all rainwater shall be drained therefrom so as
not to cause dampness in the walls or ceilings. All floors, stairways, doors,
porches, windows, skylights, chimneys, toilets, sinks, walls and ceilings shall
be kept in good repair and usable condition.
§ 8-608 DESIGNATION OF UNFIT DWELLINGS.
   The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and placarding of such unfit dwellings or dwelling units shall be carried out
in compliance with the following requirements.
   (a)   Existence of conditions. The public officer may determine, or five
citizens may petition in writing, that any dwelling unit is unfit for human use
or habitation if he, she or they find that conditions exist in such structure
that are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or morals of the
occupants of such buildings or other residents of the neighborhood, or which
shall have a blighting influence on properties in the area.
   (b)   Conditions generally. Such conditions may include the following
without limitation:
      (1)   Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accident or other
calamities.
      (2)   Lack of:
         (A)   Adequate ventilation;
         (B)   Light;
         (C)   Cleanliness; and
         (D)   Sanitary facilities.
      (3)   Dilapidation;
      (4)   Disrepair;
      (5)   Structural defects;
      (6)   Overcrowding;
      (7)   Inadequate ingress and egress;
      (8)   Unsightly appearance that constitute a blight to the adjoining
property, the neighborhood or the city; and
      (9)   Air pollution.
   (c)   Placarding; order to vacate. Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned
as unfit for human habitation, and so designated and placarded by the public
officer, shall be vacated within a reasonable time as so ordered.
   (d)   Notice of violation. Procedures as outlined in §
8-612 are applicable hereto.
   (e)   Compliance required before re-occupancy. No dwelling or dwelling unit
that has been condemned and placarded as unfit for human habitation shall again
be used for human habitation until written approval is secured from, and such
placard is removed by the public officer.
      (1)   The public officer shall remove such placard whenever the defect or
defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based have been
eliminated.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to let, lease, occupy or permit the
occupancy, whether for a consideration or not, of any dwelling so posted and
any violation of this provision shall constitute a public offense within the
meaning of this code.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface or remove the placard
from any dwelling or dwelling unit that has been condemned as unfit for human
habitation and placarded as such, except the public officer as herein provided,
and any violation of this provision shall constitute a public offense within
the meaning of this code.
§ 8-609 DESIGNATION OF BLIGHTED PREMISES (RESIDENTIAL AND NONRESIDENTIAL).
   The designation of unsightly and blighted premises and elimination thereof
shall be carried out in compliance with the following requirements.
   (a)   Public officer determinations. The public officer may determine, or
five citizens may petition in writing, that if the appearance of a premises is
not commensurate with the character of the properties in the neighborhood or
otherwise constitutes a blight to the adjoining property or the neighborhood or
the city for such reasons as, but not limited to:
      (1)   Dead trees or other unsightly natural growth;
      (2)   Unsightly stored or parked material, equipment, supplies,
machinery, trucks or automobiles or parts thereof; vermin infestation,
inadequate drainage; and
      (3)   Violation of any other law or regulations relating to the use of
land and the use and occupancy of the buildings and improvements.
   (b)   Notice of violation. Procedures as outlined in §
8-612 are applicable hereto.
§ 8-610 DESIGNATION OF BLIGHTED BUILDINGS AND PREMISES (NONRESIDENTIAL).
   Certain blighted conditions covered in §§
8-608 and
8-609 concerning buildings and premises that are on the tax roll of the city
are applicable to all nonresidential buildings and premises. Procedures of
notification shall follow those prescribed in §
8-612.
§ 8-611 INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND PREMISES.
   (a)   For the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this
code, the public officer or his or her authorized representative is hereby
authorized to make inspections to determine the condition, use and occupancy of
dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and the premises upon which the same
are located. This requirement is applicable to existing dwellings or buildings.
   (b)   The public officer is not limited by the conditions in division (a)
above where new construction or vacant premises are involved and may make such
inspections at any appropriate time.
   (c)   The owner, operator and occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit and
rooming unit shall give the public officer, or his or her authorized
representative, during reasonable hours, free access to such dwelling, dwelling
unit and rooming unit, and its premises, for the purpose of such inspection,
examination and survey after identification by proper credentials.
   (d)   Every occupant of a dwelling shall give the owner thereof, or his or
her authorized agent or employee, access to any part of such dwelling, or its
premises, at all reasonable times, for the purpose of making such repairs or
alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the provisions of this
code or with any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated, or any order
issued pursuant to the provisions of this code.
§ 8-612 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Informal discussion. Whenever the public officer or his or her
authorized representative determines that there has been a violation of any
provision of this code, the public officer will arrange with the alleged
violator for an informal discussion of violations, and whether repair and
correction is justified.
   (b)   Formal hearing. If a satisfactory solution to the violations either by
correction, demolition or removal is not forthcoming, then a legal notice of a
formal hearing will be issued according to the following procedures:
      (1)   Shall be in writing;
      (2)   Shall list the violations alleged to exist or to have been
committed;
      (3)   Shall provide a reasonable time, but not less than 30 days in any
event for the correction of the violations particularized;
      (4)   Shall be addressed to and served upon the owner of the property,
the operator of the dwelling and the occupant of the dwelling unit or the
rooming unit concerned, if the occupant is or may be responsible for violation;
      (5)   If one or more persons whom the notice is addressed cannot be found
or served after diligent effort to do so, service may be made upon such person
or persons by posting a notice in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling
affected by the notice, in which event the public officer or his or her
authorized representative shall include in the record a statement as to why
such posting was necessary; and
      (6)   Delivery shall be by certified mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service. If service is made by certified mail, the public officer
or his or her authorized representative shall include in the record a verified
statement giving details regarding the mailing.
§ 8-613 PUBLIC OFFICER; AUTHORITY.
   For the purpose of protecting the city against unsightly or blighted
premises, also the health, welfare and safety of the inhabitants of dwellings
or dwelling units, the public officer referred heretofore is hereby authorized,
with the consent and prior knowledge of the governing body, to enforce
provisions of this code and of other laws that regulate or set standards
affecting buildings and premises.
§ 8-614 GOVERNING BODY; AUTHORITY.
   The governing body is hereby authorized:
   (a)   To informally review all alleged violations as provided in §
8-612(a) prior to notification prescribed in §
8-612(b);
   (b)   To take action as prescribed in §
8-612(b);
   (c)   To hear appeals if there is opposition to any order, requirement,
decision or determination by the public officer in enforcement of this code as
outlined in §
8-618; and
   (d)   Discretionary authority may be exercised in specific cases where
variance from the terms of the code as:
      (1)   Will not adversely affect the public health, safety or welfare of
inhabitants of the city;
      (2)   Is in harmony with the spirit of this code; and
      (3)   Where literal enforcement of the code will result in unnecessary
hardship.
§ 8-615 ORDER TO CORRECT AND/OR REPAIR, REMOVE OR DEMOLISH.
   At the time of the placarding and order to vacate specified by §
8-608(c) hereof, the public officer shall also issue and cause to be served
upon the owner a notice advising of the option of removal or demolition in lieu
of correction and/or repair following the procedures as outlined in §
8-612.
§ 8-616 DEMOLITION BY PUBLIC OFFICER; PROCEDURE AND COSTS.
   (a)   Failure to comply with the order under §
8-615 for the alteration or improvement of such structure, the public officer,
with the consent and prior knowledge of the governing body, may cause such
condemned structure to be removed or demolished and the premises improved to
eliminate the conditions outlined in §
8-609.
   (b)   The cost of demolition by a public officer shall be a lien upon the
property upon which the cost was incurred and such lien, including as a part
thereof an allowance of his or her costs and necessary attorney’s fees, may be
foreclosed in judicial proceedings in the manner provided or authorized by law
for loans secured by liens on real property or shall be assessed as a special
assessment upon the lot or parcel of land on which the structure was located
and the City Clerk at the time of certifying other city taxes, shall certify
the unpaid portion of the aforesaid costs and the County Clerk shall extend the
same on the tax rolls against the lot or parcel of land.
   (c)   If the structure is removed or demolished by the public officer, he or
she shall offer for bids and sell the structure or the materials of such
structure. The proceeds of such sale shall be credited against the cost of the
removal or demolition and, if there is any balance remaining, it shall be paid
to the parties entitled thereto after deduction of costs or judicial
proceedings, if any, including the necessary attorney’s fees incurred therein,
as determined by the court, if involved.
§ 8-617 CONFLICT OF LAWS; EFFECT OR PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
   (a)   Conflicts between the provisions of this code and with a provision of
any zoning, building, fire, safety or health ordinance or code of the city,
existing on the effective date of this article, the provision shall prevail
that establishes the higher standard.
   (b)   Conflicts between this article with a provision of any other ordinance
or code of the city existing on the effective date of this article that
establishes a lower standard, the provisions of this article shall be deemed to
prevail and such other laws or codes are hereby declared to be repealed to the
extent that they may be found in conflict with this code.
§ 8-618 GOVERNING BODY; APPEALS.
   (a)   Any person, firm or corporation considering themselves aggrieved by
the decision of the public officer and who desires to present a formal protest
to the governing body shall in writing, request a hearing before the governing
body within ten days after receiving notice of the decision from the public
officer, as provided in §
8-612(b). Such protest and request for a hearing shall be filed with the office
of the City Clerk.
   (b)   Upon receipt of a protest and request for a hearing, the City Clerk
shall notify in writing the governing body of such appeal.
   (c)   The governing body shall, within 30 days of receipt of protest and
request for a hearing, determine a date for the hearing.
   (d)   Notice of the date for the hearing shall be sent to the appellant at
least ten days before the hearing.
   (e)   Except where an immediate hazard exists as described in § 4-612 of
this code, the filing of a protest and request for a hearing before the
governing body as specified in division (a) above shall operate as a stay of
the enforcement of the public officer’s order until such time as the governing
body has reached a decision on the matter.
§ 8-619 RIGHT OF PETITION.
   After exhausting the remedy provided in §
8-618, any person aggrieved by an order issued by the public officer and
approved by the governing body after a hearing on the matter may, within 30
days from the date that the order became final, petition the District Court of
the county in which the property is located to restrain the public officer from
carrying out the provisions of the order.
ARTICLE 7: RODENT CONTROL
Section
   
8-701   Definitions
   
8-702   Building maintenance
   
8-703   Notice to rat-stop; when city to do work
   
8-704   Failure to comply
   
8-705   Replace rat-stoppage
   
8-706   Notice to eradicate rats
   
8-707   Conditions conducive to harborage of rats
   
8-708   Inspections
§ 8-701 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure, whether public or private, that is adapted for
occupancy as a residence; the transaction of business; the rendering of
professional services; amusement; the display, sale or storage of goods, wares
or merchandise; or the performance of work or labor, including office
buildings, public buildings, stores, theaters, markets, restaurants, workshops
and all other houses, sheds and other structures on the premises used for
business purposes.
   OCCUPANT. The person that has the use of, controls or occupies any business
building or any portion thereof, whether owner or tenant. In the case of vacant
business buildings or any vacant portion of a business building, the owner,
agent or other person having custody of the building shall have the
responsibilities of an OCCUPANT of a building.
   OWNER. The owner of any building or structure, whether individual, firm,
partnership or corporation.
   RAT HARBORAGE. Any condition that provides shelter or protection for rats,
thus favoring their multiplication and continued existence in, under or outside
a structure of any kind.
   RAT-STOPPAGE. A form of rat-proofing to prevent the ingress of rats into
buildings from the exterior or from one building to another, consisting
essentially of the closing of all openings in the exterior walls, ground or
first floors, basements, roofs and foundations, that may be reached by rats
from the ground by climbing or by burrowing, with material or equipment
impervious to rat-gnawing.
§ 8-702 BUILDING MAINTENANCE.
   All buildings and structures located within the present or future boundaries
of the city shall be rat-stopped, freed of rats and maintained in a rat-stopped
and rat-free condition.
§ 8-703 NOTICE TO RAT-STOP; WHEN CITY TO DO WORK.
   Upon receipt of written notice from the governing body or City Manager, the
owner of any building or structure specified therein shall take immediate
measures for the rat-stoppage of such building or structure. The work shall be
completed in the time specified in the written notice, which shall be within 15
days, or within the time of any written extension thereof that may have been
granted by the governing body or City Manager.
§ 8-704 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If the owner fails to comply with such written notice or extension, then the
governing body is authorized to take such action as may be necessary to
completely rat-stop the building or structure at the expense of the owner, and
the City Clerk shall submit bills for the expense thereof to the owner of the
building or structure. If the bills are not paid within 60 days, the City Clerk
shall certify the amount due to the City Treasurer and the charge shall be a
lien against the property where the work has been done, and the owner shall be
promptly billed therefor. The expense thereof shall include the cost of labor,
materials, equipment and any other actual expense necessary for rat-stoppage.
§ 8-705 REPLACE RAT-STOPPAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any occupant, owner, contractor, public utility
company, plumber or any other person to remove the rat-stoppage from any
building or structure for any purpose and fail to restore the same in a
satisfactory condition or to make any new openings that are not closed or
sealed against the entrance of rats.
§ 8-706 NOTICE TO ERADICATE RATS.
   Whenever the governing body or City Manager notifies in writing the owner of
any building or structure theretofore rat-stopped as hereinabove defined, that
there is evidence of rat infestation of the building or structure, the owner
shall immediately institute appropriate measures for freeing the premises so
occupied of all rats. Unless suitable measures for freeing the building or
structure of rats are instituted within five days after the receipt of notice,
and unless continually maintained in a satisfactory manner, the city is hereby
authorized to free the building or structure of rats at the expense of the
owner thereof and the City Clerk shall submit bills for the expense thereof to
the owner of the building or structure and if the same are not paid, the City
Clerk shall certify the amount due from the owner to the City Treasurer, and
the owner shall be promptly billed therefor. The expense thereof shall include
the cost of labor, materials, equipment and any other actual expense necessary
for the eradication measures.
§ 8-707 CONDITIONS CONDUCIVE TO HARBORAGE OF RATS.
   (a)   All food and feed kept within the city for feeding animals shall be
kept and stored in rat-free and rat-proof containers, compartments or rooms
unless kept in a rat-stopped building.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, leave, dump or permit to
accumulate any garbage or trash in any building or premises so that the same
shall afford food and harborage for rats.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to accumulate or to permit the
accumulation on any premises or on any open lot any lumber, boxes, barrels,
bricks, stone or similar materials that may be permitted to remain thereon and
that are rat harborages, unless the same shall be placed on open racks that are
elevated not less than 12 inches above the ground, evenly piled or stacked.
   (d)   Whenever conditions inside or under any building or structure provide
such extensive harborage for rats that the Health Department deems it necessary
to eliminate such harborage, he or she may require the owner to install
suitable cement floors in basements or to replace wooden first or ground floors
or require the owner to correct such other interior rat harborage as may be
necessary to facilitate the eradication of rats in a reasonable time and
thereby to reduce the cost of such eradication.
§ 8-708 INSPECTIONS.
   The public officer and/or his or her designee is empowered to make such
inspections and re-inspections of the interior and exterior of any building or
structure as in his or her opinion may be necessary to determine full
compliance with this article.
ARTICLE 8: OUTDOOR AMPLIFIED MUSIC
Section
   
8-801   Outdoor amplified music; definitions
   
8-802   Same; time limitations
   
8-803   Same; enforcement
§ 8-801 OUTDOOR AMPLIFIED MUSIC; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMPLIFIED MUSIC. Music whose volume is increased by any electric,
electronic, mechanical or motor-powered means.
   EVENT. A scheduled performance or attraction at a fixed location within the
corporate limits of the city.
   OUTDOOR. An area that is not enclosed by a building having both a permanent
roof and sides with no openings other than doors and windows. An area within a
porch, tent, canopy or pavilion shall be considered an outdoor area.
(Ord. 1726, passed 12-3-2019)
§ 8-802 SAME; TIME LIMITATIONS.
   Amplified music originating at any outdoor location or event within the
corporate limits of the city is prohibited between 10:30 p.m. and 10:30 a.m.
(Ord. 1726, passed 12-3-2019; Ord. 1752, passed 5-18-2021)
§ 8-803 SAME; ENFORCEMENT.
   City law enforcement is authorized to order discontinuance of outdoor
amplified music used when prohibited herein. Failure to comply with such lawful
order shall be considered a Class C violation.
(Ord. 1726, passed 12-3-2019; Ord. 1752, passed 5-18-2021)
ARTICLE 9: INSURANCE PROCEEDS FUND
Section
   
8-901   Scope and application
   
8-902   Lien created
   
8-903   Same; encumbrances
   
8-904   Same; pro rata basis
   
8-905   Procedure
   
8-906   Fund created; deposit of monies
   
8-907   Building inspector; investigation, removal of structure
   
8-908   Removal of structure; excess monies
   
8-909   Same; disposition of funds
   
8-910   Effect upon insurance policies
   
8-911   Insurers; liability
§ 8-901 SCOPE AND APPLICATION.
   The city is hereby authorized to utilize the procedures established by
K.S.A. 40-3901 et seq., whereby no insurance company shall pay a claim of a
named insured for loss or damage to any building or other structure located
within the city, where the amount recoverable for the loss or damage to the
building or other structure under all policies is in excess of 75% of the face
value of the policy covering such building or other insured structure, unless
there is compliance with the procedures set out in this article.
§ 8-902 LIEN CREATED.
   The governing body of the city hereby creates a lien in favor of the city on
the proceeds of any insurance policy based upon a covered claim payment made
for damage or loss to a building or other structure located within the city,
where the amount recoverable for all the loss or damage to the building or
other structure under all policies is in excess of 75% of the face value of the
policy(s) covering such building or other insured structure. The lien arises
upon any unpaid tax, special ad valorem levy, or any other charge imposed upon
real property by or on behalf of the city which is an encumbrance on real
property, whether or not evidenced by written instrument, or such tax, levy,
assessment, expense, or other charge that has remained undischarged for at
least one year prior to the filing of a proof of loss.
§ 8-903 SAME; ENCUMBRANCES.
   Prior to final settlement on any claim covered by §
8-902, the insurer or insurers shall contact the County Treasurer, Pottawatomie
County, Kansas, to determine whether any such encumbrances are presently in
existence. If the same are found to exist, the insurer or insurers shall
execute and transmit in an amount equal to that owing under the encumbrances a
draft payable to the County Treasurer, Pottawatomie County, Kansas.
§ 8-904 SAME; PRO RATA BASIS.
   Such transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro rata basis by all insurance
companies insuring the building or other structure.
§ 8-905 PROCEDURE.
   (a)   When final settlement on a covered claim has been agreed to or arrived
at between the named insured or insureds and the company or companies, and the
final settlement exceeds 75% of the face value of the policy covering any
building or other insured structure, and when all amounts due the holder of a
first real estate mortgage against the building or other structure, pursuant to
the terms of the policy and endorsements thereto, shall have been paid, the
insurance company or companies shall execute a draft payable to the City
Treasurer in an amount equal to the sum of 15% of the covered claim payment,
unless the chief building inspector of the city has issued a certificate to the
insurance company or companies that the insured has removed the damaged
building or other structure, as well as all associated debris, or repaired,
rebuilt, or otherwise made the premises safe and secure.
   (b)   Such transfer of funds shall be on a pro rata basis by all companies
insuring the building or other structure. Policy proceeds remaining after the
transfer to the city shall be disbursed in accordance with the policy terms.
   (c)   Upon the transfer of the funds as required by division (a) above, the
insurance company shall provide the city with the name and address of the named
insured or insureds, the total insurance coverage applicable to said building
or other structure, and the amount of the final settlement agreed to or arrived
at between the insurance company or companies and the insured or insureds,
whereupon the chief building inspector shall contact the named insured or
insureds by certified mail, return receipt requested, notifying them that said
insurance proceeds have been received by the city and apprise them of the
procedures to be followed under this article.
§ 8-906 FUND CREATED; DEPOSIT OF MONIES.
   The City Treasurer is hereby authorized and shall create a fund to be known
as the Insurance Proceeds Fund. All monies received by the City Treasurer as
provided for by this article shall be placed in said fund and deposited in an
interest-bearing account.
§ 8-907 BUILDING INSPECTOR; INVESTIGATION, REMOVAL OF STRUCTURE.
   (a)   Upon receipt of monies as provided for by this article, the City
Treasurer shall immediately notify the chief building inspector of said
receipt, and transmit all documentation received from the insurance company or
companies to the chief building inspector.
   (b)   Within 30 days of the receipt of said monies, the chief building
inspector shall determine, after prior investigation, whether the city shall
instigate proceedings under the provisions of K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as
amended.
   (c)   Prior to the expiration of the 30 days established by division (b)
above, the chief building inspector shall notify the City Treasurer whether he
or she intends to initiate proceedings under K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as
amended.
   (d)   If the chief building inspector has determined that proceedings under
K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as amended shall be initiated, he or she will do so
immediately but no later than 45 days after receipt of the monies by the City
Treasurer.
   (e)   Upon notification to the City Treasurer by the chief building
inspector that no proceedings shall be initiated under K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq.,
as amended, the City Treasurer shall return all such monies received, plus
accrued interest, to the insured or insureds as identified in the communication
from the insurance company or companies. Such return shall be accomplished
within 45 days of the receipt of the monies from the insurance company or
companies.
§ 8-908 REMOVAL OF STRUCTURE; EXCESS MONIES.
   If the chief building inspector has proceeded under the provisions of K.S.A.
12-1750 et seq., as amended, all monies in excess of that which is ultimately
necessary to comply with the provisions for the removal of the building or
structure, less salvage value, if any, shall be paid to the insured.
§ 8-909 SAME; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   If the chief building inspector, with regard to a building or other
structure damaged determines that it is necessary to act under K.S.A. 12-1756,
any proceeds received by the City Treasurer under the authority of §
8-905(a) relating to that building or other structure shall be used to
reimburse the city for any expenses incurred by the city in proceeding under
K.S.A. 12-1756. Upon reimbursement from the insurance proceeds, the chief
building inspector shall immediately effect the release of the lien resulting
therefrom. Should the expenses incurred by the city exceed the insurance
proceeds paid over to the City Treasurer under §
8-905(a), the chief building inspector shall publish a new lien as authorized
by K.S.A. 12-1756, in an amount equal to such excess expenses incurred.
§ 8-910 EFFECT UPON INSURANCE POLICIES.
   This article shall not make the city a party to any insurance contract, nor
is the insurer liable to any party for any amount in excess of the proceeds
otherwise payable under its insurance policy.
§ 8-911 INSURERS; LIABILITY.
   Insurers complying with this article or attempting in good faith to comply
with this article shall be immune from civil and criminal liability and such
action shall not be deemed in violation of K.S.A. 40-2404 and any amendments
thereto, including withholding payment of any insurance proceeds pursuant to
this article, or releasing or disclosing any information pursuant to this
article.
CHAPTER IX: MUNICIPAL COURT
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
9-101   Municipal Court established
   
9-102   Same; practice and procedure
   
9-103   Time and place of sessions
   
9-104   Municipal Judge; appointment
   
9-105   Same; absence; vacancy; pro tem
   
9-106   Same; powers and duties
   
9-107   Same; salary
   
9-108   Court Clerk
   
9-109   Payment of fine
   
9-110   Same; failure to pay separate violation
   
9-111   Failure to appear
   
9-112   Court costs
§ 9-101 MUNICIPAL COURT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Municipal Court for the City of Wamego,
Kansas. The Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine cases
involving violations of the ordinances of the city.
(Charter Ord. 10, passed - -)
§ 9-102 SAME; PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE.
   The Kansas Code of Procedure for Municipal Courts, as set forth in K.S.A.
12-4101 et seq. and all acts amendatory or supplemental thereto shall govern
the practice and procedure in all cases in the Municipal Court.
(Charter Ord. 10, passed - -)
§ 9-103 TIME AND PLACE OF SESSIONS.
   Municipal Court shall be held in the municipal courtroom in the city hall
building on such days and at such hours as the Municipal Judge designates.
§ 9-104 MUNICIPAL JUDGE; APPOINTMENT.
   The Municipal Court shall be presided over by a Municipal Judge. The City
Manager shall appoint the Judge of the Municipal Court.
§ 9-105 SAME; ABSENCE; VACANCY; PRO TEM.
   (a)   In the event the Municipal Judge is temporarily unable to preside due
to absence, illness or disqualification, the Municipal Judge shall designate an
attorney or other qualified person to act as Judge Pro Tempore. In the event
the Municipal Judge fails to appoint a Judge Pro Tempore, the Judge Pro Tempore
shall be appointed in the same manner as the Municipal Judge is selected. The
Judge Pro Tempore shall receive compensation as shall be provided by ordinance,
payable in the same manner as the compensation of the regular Municipal Judge.
   (b)   In the event a vacancy shall occur in the office of Municipal Judge, a
successor shall be appointed to fill the unexpired term in the same manner as
the Municipal Judge was appointed.
(K.S.A. 12-4107)
§ 9-106 SAME; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Municipal Judge shall have such powers and duties as set forth in the
Kansas Code of Procedure for Municipal Courts (K.S.A. 12-4101 et seq.) and all
acts amendatory or supplemental thereto.
(Charter Ord. 10, passed - -)
§ 9-107 SAME; SALARY.
   The Municipal Judge shall receive a salary as shall be fixed by ordinance.
§ 9-108 COURT CLERK.
   (a)   There is hereby established the office of the Clerk of the Municipal
Court of the city, which office shall be filled by appointment by the Municipal
Judge of the Municipal Court.
   (b)   The duties of the office shall be those prescribed by the Code for
Municipal Courts set forth in K.S.A. Ch. 12, Art. 41, and shall include the
following duties.
      (1)   The Clerk shall issue all processes of the Court; administer oaths;
file and preserve all papers, and docket cases; and set same for trial and
shall perform such further acts as may be necessary to carry out the duties and
responsibilities of the Court. The Clerk shall receive, account for and pay to
the City Treasurer monthly all fines and forfeited bonds paid into the Court.
The Clerk shall make reports to the Judicial Administrator and furnish the
information when requested by him, her or a departmental justice on such forms
furnished by the Judicial Administrator, and approved by the Supreme Court.
      (2)   The Clerk of the Municipal Court shall within ten days after
selection and before entering upon the duties of office, execute to the city
such bond as the governing body may require, which shall be approved by the
governing body, and file in the office of the City Clerk, conditioned for the
faithful performance of the duties required of him or her by law, and for the
faithful application and payment of all monies that may come into his or her
hands in the execution of the duties of the office. The city shall pay the cost
of such bond.
      (3)   The monthly salary of the Clerk shall be fixed by ordinance.
      (4)   A majority of all members of the Council may remove the Clerk
appointed under the authority of this article, or for good cause the Mayor may
temporarily suspend any such appointed Clerk.
(K.S.A. 12-4108)
§ 9-109 PAYMENT OF FINE.
   Where a Municipal Court judgment against any person results in a fine and/or
court costs only, the same shall be satisfied by paying the amount of such fine
and/or court costs to the Municipal Court immediately on the rendition of
judgment, or at such time as the Municipal Judge shall determine.
§ 9-110 SAME; FAILURE TO PAY SEPARATE VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail to pay any lawfully
imposed fine for a violation of any law of the city within the time authorized
by the Court and without lawful excuse having been presented to the Court on or
before the date the fine is due. Such conduct constitutes a violation of this
article, regardless of the full payment of the fine after such time.
§ 9-111 FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person charged with violation of any law
of the city to fail to appear before the Municipal Court when so scheduled to
appear, unless lawful excuse for absence is presented to the Court on or before
the time and date scheduled for appearance.
   (b)   For the purpose of division (a) above, failure to appear shall include
willfully incurring a forfeiture of an appearance bond and failure to surrender
oneself within 30 days following the date of such forfeiture by one who is
charged with a violation of the laws of the city and has been released on bond
for appearance before the Municipal Court for trial or other proceeding prior
to conviction, or willfully incurring a forfeiture of an appearance bond and
failing to surrender oneself within 30 days after his or her conviction of a
violation of the laws of the city has become final by one who has been released
on an appearance bond by any court of this state.
   (c)   Any person who is released upon his or her own recognizance, without
surety, or who fails to appear in response to a summons, notice to appear or
traffic citation duly served upon him or her personally shall be deemed a
person released on bond for appearance within the meaning of division (b)
above.
   (d)   Failure to appear, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by
incarceration for up to 30 days and/or a fine of up to $250.
§ 9-112 COURT COSTS.
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER X: POLICE
   Article
      
1.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
2.   PROPERTY IN POLICE CUSTODY
      
3.   POLICE FEES
ARTICLE 1: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
10-101   Police Department
   
10-102   Law enforcement personnel; general duties
   
10-103   Rules and regulations
§ 10-101 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department of the city shall consist of regularly appointed law
enforcement officers, one of whom shall be Chief of Police and such other
necessary members as may be appointed by the City Manager from time to time.
§ 10-102 LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL; GENERAL DUTIES.
   (a)   It shall be the general duty of the Chief of Police and all sworn law
enforcement personnel to the best of their ability to preserve good order,
peace and quiet throughout the city as provided by law or ordinance.
   (b)   The Chief of Police and all sworn law enforcement personnel shall at
all times have power to make arrest under proper process or without process on
view of any offense against the laws of the state or laws of the city and to
keep all persons so arrested, unless admitted to bail, in the city jail, county
jail or other proper place to prevent their escape until their trial can be had
before the proper officer.
   (c)   All persons arrested for violation of any law of the state and who
shall not be charged with an offense under any law of the city shall be
released to the custody of the Sheriff of the county and such arrest shall be
reported to the County Attorney.
§ 10-103 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police shall have power to make such rules and regulations as
may be necessary for the proper and efficient conduct of the Department. Such
rules and regulations shall be approved by the governing body.
ARTICLE 2: PROPERTY IN POLICE CUSTODY
Section
   
10-201   Regulations
   
10-202   Disposition
   
10-203   Same; exempt property
   
10-204   Claiming property
   
10-205   Proof of ownership
   
10-206   Auction
§ 10-201 REGULATIONS.
   The Police Department is required to establish regulations detailing the
collection, storage and inventory of property that may come under its control
by any manner.
§ 10-202 DISPOSITION.
   Any property which has been acquired or turned over to the Police Department
and has been classified in accordance with procedures existing in the Police
Department as unclaimed or for which the proper owner cannot be ascertained
shall be kept for a minimum of 90 days. After a period of 90 days, such
property, except as provided in §
10-203, shall be sold at public auction to the highest bidder and the proceeds
after expenses shall be paid to the City General Fund.
§ 10-203 SAME; EXEMPT PROPERTY.
   The following classes of property shall be considered exceptions to §
10-202 and shall be dealt with in the following manner.
   (a)   Cash money shall be turned over to the City General Fund unless it
shall be determined to have collector’s value, in which case it shall be
auctioned according to the provisions in §
10-202.
   (b)   Except as provided in divisions (c) and (d) below, any weapon or
ammunition, in the discretion of the court having jurisdiction of the property,
shall be:
      (1)   Forfeited to the law enforcement agency seizing the weapon for use
within such agency, for sale to a properly licensed federal firearms dealer for
trading to a properly licensed federal firearms dealer for other new or used
firearms or accessories for use within such agency, or for trading to another
law enforcement agency for that agency’s use;
      (2)   Forfeited to the State Bureau of Investigation for law enforcement,
testing or comparison by the State Bureau of Investigation forensic laboratory;
      (3)   Forfeited to a county regional forensic science center, or other
county forensic laboratory for testing, comparison or other forensic science
purposes; or
      (4)   Forfeited to the State Department of Wildlife, Parks and Tourism
for use pursuant to the conditions set forth in K.S.A. 32-1047, and amendments
thereto.
   (c)   Except as provided in division (d) below, any weapon which cannot be
forfeited pursuant to division (b) above due to the condition of the weapon,
and any weapon which was used in the commission of a felony as described in
K.S.A. 21-5401, 21-5402, 21-5403, 21-5404 or 21-5405, and amendments thereto,
shall be destroyed.
   (d)   If a weapon is seized from an individual and the individual is not
convicted or adjudicated as a juvenile offender of the violation for which the
weapon was seized, then within 30 days after the declination or conclusion of
prosecution of the case against the individual, including any period of appeal,
the law enforcement agency that seized the weapon shall verify that the weapon
is not stolen, and upon such verification shall notify the person from whom it
was seized that the weapon may be retrieved. Such notification shall include
the location where such weapon may be retrieved.
   (e)   If weapons are sold as authorized by division (b) above, the proceeds
of the sale shall be credited to the Asset Seizure and Forfeiture Fund of the
seizing agency.
   (f)   For purposes of divisions (b), (c) and (d) above, the term WEAPON
means any:
      (1)   Bludgeon, sand club, metal knuckle or throwing star;
      (2)   Dagger, dirk, billy, blackjack, slungshot, dangerous knife,
straight-edged razor, stiletto or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or
instrument of like character;
      (3)   Spring gun; or
      (4)   Firearm.
   (g)   Homemade weapons or weapons of a contraband nature shall be destroyed.
   (h)   Any items determined to be contraband such as explosives, narcotics
and the like shall be destroyed.
   (i)   Controlled substances forfeited for violations of K.S.A. 21-5701
through 21-5717, and amendments thereto, shall be dealt with as provided under
K.S.A. 60-4101 through 60-4126, and amendments thereto.
   (j)   Items of a pharmaceutical nature, which, while not contraband when
properly dispensed, or which are of an over-the-counter variety, shall be
destroyed.
   (k)   Foodstuffs, if sealed and undamaged may be turned over to any
appropriate social service agency or destroyed, but shall not be auctioned.
   (l)   Alcohol products such as beer, wine, whiskey and the like shall be
destroyed.
   (m)   Items with a value in excess of $500 may be sold after advertising
said item in a general circulation newspaper on at least two occasions. Such
sales shall be by closed bid.
(K.S.A. 22-2512)
§ 10-204 CLAIMING PROPERTY.
   The Police Department shall be required to make reasonable attempts to
locate the owner of any property in storage, however, the responsibility for
claiming and identifying any such property shall rest solely with the owner.
§ 10-205 PROOF OF OWNERSHIP.
   Claimants to any property in police storage shall be required to present
reasonable proof of ownership and no property shall be released unless such
reasonable proof is presented.
§ 10-206 AUCTION.
   At such time as it has been determined that an auction is necessary to
dispose of unclaimed property, an inventory listing all property to be disposed
of shall be prepared and kept on file in the Police Department. Notice of an
auction shall be published at least twice in a general circulation newspaper
before the date of the auction. The notice shall specify the date, time and
place of the auction and shall also notify prospective buyers or potential
claimants that a list of items to be auctioned is available at the Police
Department and any claims on property must be made before the start of the
auction.
ARTICLE 3: POLICE FEES
Section
   
10-301   Fee for police responses to party
   
10-302   Initial police responses to parties, gatherings or events
   
10-303   Subsequent police responses to parties, gatherings or events;
liability
   
10-304   Cost; collection
§ 10-301 FEE FOR POLICE RESPONSES TO PARTY.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOST. The person who owns or is in possession of the property where the
party, gathering or event takes place, or the person in charge of the premises,
or the person who organized the event. If the HOST is a minor, then the parents
or guardians of that minor will be jointly and severally liable for the fee
incurred for police services.
   PARTY, GATHERING or EVENT. An event involving a group of persons who have
assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or for a social activity.
   POLICE SERVICES FEE. The cost to the city of any special security
assignment, including, but not limited to, salaries of police officers while
responding to or remaining at the party, gathering or event; the pro rata cost
of equipment; the cost of repairing city equipment and property; the cost of
any medical treatment of injured police officers; and the cost of reasonable
attorney’s fees.
   SPECIAL SECURITY ASSIGNMENT. The assignment of police officers, services and
equipment during a second or subsequent response to the party, gathering or
event after the delivery of a written notice to the host that a fee may be
imposed for costs incurred by the city for any subsequent police response.
§ 10-302 INITIAL POLICE RESPONSES TO PARTIES, GATHERINGS OR EVENTS.
   When any police officer responds to any party, gathering or event and that
police officer determines there is a threat to the public peace, health, safety
or general welfare, the police officer shall issue a written notice to the host
or hosts that a subsequent response to that same location or address within 24
hours of the first response shall be deemed a special security assignment
rendered to provide security and order on behalf of the party, gathering or
event and that the host may be liable for a police services fee as defined in
this article.
§ 10-303 SUBSEQUENT POLICE RESPONSES TO PARTIES, GATHERINGS OR EVENTS;
LIABILITY.
   (a)   If, after a written notice is issued pursuant to §
10-302, a subsequent police response or responses is necessary to the same
location or address within 24 hours of the first response, such response or
responses shall be deemed a special security assignment. Persons previously
warned shall be jointly and severally liable for a police services fee as
defined in this article.
   (b)   The amount of the fee shall be a debt owed to the city by the person
or person warned, and if he or she is a minor, his or her parents or guardians
shall be jointly and severally liable for the debt.
§ 10-304 COST; COLLECTION.
   The Chief of Police shall notify the City Treasurer in writing of the
performance of a special security assignment, of the name and address of the
responsible person or persons, the date and time of the incident, the services
performed, the costs and such other information as may be required. The City
Treasurer shall thereafter cause appropriate billings to be made.
CHAPTER XI: PUBLIC OFFENSES
   Article
      
1.   UNIFORM PUBLIC OFFENSE CODE
      
2.   LOCAL REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 1: UNIFORM PUBLIC OFFENSE CODE
Section
   
11-101   Incorporating Uniform Public Offense Code by reference
   
11-102   Amendments to the Uniform Public Offense Code
§ 11-101 INCORPORATING UNIFORM PUBLIC OFFENSE CODE BY REFERENCE.
   (a)   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of
regulating public offenses within the corporate limits of the City of Wamego,
Kansas, that certain code known as the “2024 Uniform Public Offense Code for
Kansas Cities, 40th Edition” prepared and published by the League of Kansas
Municipalities, Topeka, Kansas. No fewer than three copies of said Uniform
Public Offense Code shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as Adopted by
Ordinance No. 1804,” and to which shall be attached a copy of Ordinance No.
1804 and filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to
the public at all reasonable hours.
   (b)   The following amendments to the Uniform Public Offense Code so
incorporated under division (a) above shall be in effect, and such amendments
shall be clearly marked in all Official Copies prescribed under division (a)
above. Section 5.7, to read as follows:
   Sec. 5.7. Selling, Giving Or Furnishing Cigarettes Or Tobacco Products to a
Person Under 21 Years of Age.
      (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
         (1)   Sell, furnish or distribute cigarettes, electronic cigarettes,
or tobacco products to any person under 21 years of age; or
         (2)   Buy any cigarettes, electronic cigarettes, or tobacco products
for any person under 21 years of age.
      (b)   It shall be a defense to a prosecution under this section if:
         (1)   The defendant is a licensed retail dealer, or employee thereof,
or a person authorized by law to distribute samples;
         (2)   The defendant sold, furnished or distributed the cigarettes,
electronic cigarettes, or tobacco products to the person under 21 years of age
with reasonable cause to believe the person was of legal age to purchase or
receive cigarettes, electronic cigarettes or tobacco products; and
         (3)   To purchase or receive the cigarettes, electronic cigarettes, or
tobacco products, the person under 21 years of age exhibited to the defendant a
driver’s license, Kansas non- driver’s identification card or other official or
apparently official document containing a photograph of the person and
purporting to establish that the person was of legal age to purchase or receive
cigarettes, electronic cigarettes, or tobacco products.
         (4)   For purposes of this section the person who violates this
section shall be the individual directly selling, furnishing or distributing
the cigarettes, electronic cigarettes, or tobacco products to any person under
21 years of age or the retail dealer who has actual knowledge of such selling,
furnishing or distributing by such individual or both.
      (c)   It shall be a defense to a prosecution under this division (c) if:
         (1)   The defendant engages in the lawful sale, furnishing or
distribution of cigarettes, electronic cigarettes, or tobacco products by mail;
and
         (2)   The defendant sold, furnished or distributed the cigarettes,
electronic cigarettes, or tobacco products to the person by mail only after the
person had provided to the defendant an unsworn declaration, conforming to
K.S.A. 53-601 and amendments thereto, that the person was 21 or more years of
age.
      (d)   As used in this section, sale means any transfer of title or
possession or both, exchange, barter, distribution or gift of cigarettes or
tobacco products, with or without consideration.
(K.S.A. 79-3302, 79-3321 through 79-3322)
      (e)   Violation of this section shall constitute a Class B violation
punishable by a minimum fine of $200.
(Ord. 1794, passed 9-19-2023; Ord. 1804, passed 7-16-2024)
§ 11-102 AMENDMENTS TO THE UNIFORM PUBLIC OFFENSE CODE.
   The following provisions, as adopted by the Uniform Public Offense Code
shall be amended to read as follows:
   (a)   Excessive noise from a motor vehicle.
      (1)   Excessive noise from a motor vehicle is any sound produced by a
sound amplification system from within a vehicle on a street, highway, alley,
parking lot or driveway, whether public or private property, which can clearly
be heard at a distance of 50 feet or more. The measurement standard shall be by
the auditory senses, based on a direct line of sight. A sound amplification
system means any radio, tape player, compact disk player, loud speaker or other
electronic device used for the amplification of sound.
      (2)   Operating or permitting the operation of an sound amplification
system so as to produce excessive noise from a motor vehicle is a Class C
violation.
   (b)   Jake brakes, exhaust cutouts or similar devices.
      (1)   A JAKE BRAKE is any device commonly known by that name, or similar
device used to slow a motor vehicle by engine compression.
      (2)   Operating, causing or allowing to be used any jake brake, exhaust
cutout or other similar device which causes other than ordinary exhaust noise
to be emitted from the vehicle is a Class C violation.
   (c)   Smoking and the like. References to “smoke”, “smoking”, “tobacco
shops” and “smoke-free” shall be construed to include “vape”, “vaping”, “vapor
shops” and “vapor-free”, respectively, under Sec. 10.24. Smoking Prohibited,
Sec. 10.25. Smoking; Posting Premises and Sec. 10.26 Smoking Prohibited;
Penalties or amendments thereto, of the currently adopted and effective edition
of the Uniform Public Offense Code incorporated by reference under §
11-101; where to VAPE or VAPING is defined as the use of any electronic or
battery-powered device/vaporizer, such as an e-cigarette, that simulates
tobacco smoking or vaping by producing an aerosol that resembles smoke, vapor
or any component thereof. Furthermore, VAPOR SHOPS shall mean any indoor area
operated primarily for the retail sale of such devices and associated products,
and VAPOR is the emission of such devices.
(Ord. 1416, passed 9-16-2003; Ord. 1417, passed 9-16-2003; Ord. 1712, passed 5-
21-2019)
ARTICLE 2: LOCAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
11-201   Blocking crossing
   
11-202   Same; penalty
   
11-203   Curfew hours
   
11-204   Same; penalty
§ 11-201 BLOCKING CROSSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person having charge, control or management of
any railway engine, car or train to cause or permit the same to obstruct any
street for more than ten minutes at any one time.
(Ord. 1343, passed 9-19-2000)
§ 11-202 SAME; PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of §
11-201 shall be subject to a fine of $500 per occurrence.
(Ord. 1343, passed 9-19-2000)
§ 11-203 CURFEW HOURS.
   Curfew hours are 12:01 a.m. through 5:00 a.m. Monday through Friday, and 1:
00 a.m. through 5:00 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday. It shall be unlawful for a
minor, any person under 18 years of age, during curfew hours to be on or in any
public place within the city, to remain in any motor vehicle operating or
parked, or to remain in or upon the premises of any establishment with the
city, unless the minor is accompanied by a legal guardian or involved in a
work, school sponsored, religious, civic or public organization or agency
actively supervised by adults.
(Ord. 1802, passed 4-16-2024)
§ 11-204 SAME; PENALTY.
   Any minor violating “curfew hours” or legal guardian will be subject to a
$25 fine for the first offense, $50 fine for the second offense and $100 fine
for the third and subsequent offenses plus court costs.
(Ord. 1802, passed 4-16-2024)
CHAPTER XII: PUBLIC PROPERTY
   Article
      
1.   CEMETERY
      
2.   HOSPITAL
      
3.   LIBRARY
      
4.   AIRPORT
      
5.   CITY PARKS
ARTICLE 1: CEMETERY
Section
   
12-101   Definitions
   
12-102   Cemetery; name
   
12-103   Same; survey, plat of
   
12-104   City Clerk’s responsibilities
   
12-105   Cemetery Superintendent’s responsibilities
   
12-106   Same; lots; sale; condition
   
12-107   Transfer of lots
   
12-108   Interments
   
12-109   Grave opening; funerals
   
12-110   Same; notification
   
12-111   Same; immediate interment
   
12-112   Opening, closing, other charges and fees
   
12-113   Reopening of graves; disinterment
   
12-114   Monuments, markers
   
12-115   Foot stones
   
12-116   Monument work; permit; fee
   
12-117   Enclosing lots, covering graves prohibited
   
12-118   Permanent mounding of graves prohibited
   
12-119   Permanent plantings
   
12-120   Flowers; objects
   
12-121   Removal of enclosures or other materials
   
12-122   Conduct in the city cemetery
   
12-123   Permanent Maintenance Fund; established
   
12-124   Same; charges; deposit
   
12-125   Same; use; investment
   
12-126   Permanent maintenance care; definition
   
12-127   Cemetery hours
   
12-128   Columbarium regulations
§ 12-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CEMETERY. A burial park for earth interments, or tomb interments.
   COLUMBARIUM. An above ground vault with niches for placement and perpetual
storage of funeral urns.
   COLUMBARIUM INTERMENT. The permanent placement of a funeral urn containing
the cremated remains of a person, in a columbarium niche.
   INTERMENT. The permanent disposition of the remains of a deceased person by
burial, by cremation, interment and burial, or by entombment.
   LOT. Numbered tracts within the cemetery as shown on the record plat,
consisting of one or more spaces and grouped into a cemetery section.
   LOT MARKER. A concrete post used by the cemetery to locate the corner of a
lot.
   MONUMENT. A tombstone or memorial of granite or marble.
   OPENING/CLOSING. Removal of earth for an interment and replacing of earth
over the burial vault or urn, as specified in this article.
   SECTION. The primary subdivision of the cemetery, composed of a collection
of numbered lots.
   SPACE. An area for one interment (usually four feet by 11 feet) grouped with
other spaces to form a cemetery lot.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992; Ord. 1593, passed 7-3-2012)
§ 12-102 CEMETERY; NAME.
   The City Cemetery heretofore established shall be known as the “Wamego City
Cemetery”.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-103 SAME; SURVEY, PLAT OF.
   The survey and plat of the Cemetery into lots, blocks, parking, roadways and
walks, as recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds of Pottawatomie
County, shall be the official survey and plat of the cemetery.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-104 CITY CLERK’S RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (a)   The City Clerk shall be responsible for maintaining official records
of conveyances, owners and interments in the Wamego City Cemetery.
   (b)   He or she shall collect and account for cemetery funds from the sale
of lots, permanent maintenance charges or other charges, and shall issue all
cemetery deeds, permits and licenses as authorized by this article.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-105 CEMETERY SUPERINTENDENT’S RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The duties of the Cemetery Superintendent shall be assigned to an employee
or employees of the city by the City Manager. He or she shall be responsible
for maintaining the cemetery, including fencing, gates, grounds, streets,
buildings and all other parts thereof, in good condition, and shall take such
means as may be necessary to protect the cemetery from damage and depreciation
of any kind. He or she shall cause all persons within the cemetery to observe
the rules and regulations pertaining to conduct therein and the care and
adornment of cemetery lots. He or she shall mark all graves for opening/closing
and shall secure persons to perform the opening/closing. Her or she shall also
mark out locations for monuments and inspect all new monument installations to
ensure compliance with city specifications.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-106 SAME; LOTS; SALE; CONDITION.
   Regulations relating to lots in the cemetery and the sale of the lots shall
be as follows:
   (a)   The charge for sale of all spaces in the city cemetery shall be
determined by resolution adopted by the governing body;
   (b)   All unsold lots or fractions of lots, surveyed and platted for grave
spaces in the cemetery, shall be sold by lots, fractions thereof or single
grave spaces by the city for such sum or sums as the governing body shall
prescribe by resolution;
   (c)   All lots and grave spaces shall be used solely for the purpose of
interment of human bodies;
   (d)   No lot or grave space shall be used for the purpose of burial, nor a
deed issued until the purchase price therefor shall have been paid in full to
the city (or until the City Clerk shall have satisfactory guarantee of such
payment);
   (e)   Upon the full payment of the purchase price for any lot, fraction
thereof or grave space owned by the city, plus full payment of the cost for
permanent maintenance thereof, a cemetery certificate shall be issued by the
City Clerk which shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by the City Clerk
under the seal of the city;
   (f)   One half of the monies received from the sale of lots, fractions
thereof and grave spaces shall be deposited by the City Clerk into the General
Operating Fund, and one half of said monies shall be deposited to the Cemetery
Reserve Fund for use only in the purchase and development of new cemetery land.
All permanent maintenance funds received must be used in accordance with the
provisions of § 12-125; and
   (g)   Babyland. Lots 1, 8 and 9 of section 7 of the city cemetery shall be
reserved for interment of infants 18 months and younger. Owners of Babyland
grave spaces are subject to the regulations found elsewhere in this article,
unless exceptions are specified.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-107 TRANSFER OF LOTS.
   No sale, transfer or conveyance of any lot, fraction thereof or grave space
shall be made by the owner thereof until first approved by the City Manager.
The City Manager may authorize the purchase by the city of any unused or unsold
lot or fraction thereof from the legal title holder at no more than the current
price. No space, lot or portion thereof may be transferred if containing a
monument or part of a monument or if explicit or implied reference is made to
it by the monument. The charge for transfer of deeds shall be as established
under §
12-112.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-108 INTERMENTS.
   Regulations relating to interment requirements for the city cemetery are as
follows.
   (a)   Only one interment shall be made in any standard grave space, with the
following exceptions:
      (1)   A mother and infant or infants interred in the same casket;
      (2)   Two infants interred in the same casket; and
      (3)   Two cremains interments in the same adult grave space.
   (b)   In designated cremains spaces only one internment shall be permitted
on a space.
   (c)   A non-sealed two piece concrete box is the minimum requirement for
containing a casket, for all interments in the city cemetery except cremains
interments.
   (d)   No interment shall be made for other than a relative or heir of any
lot owner without the written permission of the lot owner, filed with the City
Clerk, and no lot owners shall allow interments to be made in their lots for
remuneration.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-109 GRAVE OPENING; FUNERALS.
   (a)   No grave shall be opened in the city cemetery by anyone other than
City of Wamego employees or contract workers.
   (b)   Standard graves shall be excavated to a depth of at least five feet,
except that the excavation required for an infant interment shall be not less
than three and one-half feet. No part of the container or vault shall be closer
to the ground surface than 30 inches.
   (c)   Cremains graves shall be excavated to a depth of three feet, six
inches to four feet and shall have a width of at least one foot. Encasement of
cremains in poured concrete shall be required for all non-permanent containers
which are not contained in a vault. Three inches poured concrete shall be
allowed under the container and concrete shall not be closer then one foot from
the surface.
   (d)   Funeral processions must be in the city cemetery by 11:00 a.m. on
weekends and holidays.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-110 SAME; NOTIFICATION.
   (a)   Before any grave shall be excavated, written application shall be made
to the City Clerk or Cemetery Superintendent requesting such work to be done.
   (b)   Such application shall be made not less than 16 working hours before
the time of interment, except as required under §
12-111. The application requesting a grave to be opened or dug may be made by:
      (1)   The owner of the lot or his or her duly authorized agent;
      (2)   The Funeral Director or person in charge of interment; or
      (3)   Some other authorized person.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-111 SAME; IMMEDIATE INTERMENT.
   (a)   If an immediate interment (within 24 hours of death) is required the
application for grave opening shall be made as specified under §
12-110 except that such application shall be made not less than four working
hours before the time of interment.
   (b)   Charges for immediate interment opening and closing shall be as set
out under §
12-112.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-112 OPENING, CLOSING, OTHER CHARGES AND FEES.
   (a)   The governing body shall fix by resolution the charges for opening and
closing of graves or for inurnments in the cemetery, and shall also establish
charges and fees for other services associated with the cemetery. All such
charges and fees shall be paid in full to the City Clerk, who shall issue a
general receipt for all monies received. All monies shall be deposited to the
General Operating Fund of the City Treasury, for use in maintenance of the city
cemetery. Full payment for an opening, closing must be received before work is
commenced.
   (b)   Expenses associated with indigent interments shall be reimbursed to
the city as per current State of Kansas Social Rehabilitation Services
policies. Full payment for indigent interment must be received before opening/
closing is commenced.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-113 REOPENING OF GRAVES; DISINTERMENT.
   (a)   Any person desiring to reopen any grave in the cemetery to disinter or
remove any body therefrom, or for any other purpose shall make written
application to the City Clerk or Cemetery Superintendent requesting such work
to be done. A charge for said service shall be set at twice the amount charged
for opening and closing graves as set out in §
12-112, except that, if it is determined that the disinterment will correct an
error of the city, no charge shall be required.
   (b)   The following rules shall apply.
      (1)   Reopening of a grave and removal of a body shall be under the
supervision of the Cemetery Superintendent.
      (2)   All markers designating the interment shall be removed at the time
of disinterment.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-114 MONUMENTS, MARKERS.
   Requirements for placing monuments or markers are given below.
   (a)   All grave spaces must be marked with a temporary marker by the funeral
home immediately after interment, if a monument does not exist.
   (b)   A permanent marker is required within one year of interment.
   (c)   Monuments in the cemetery must be made of granite, marble or bronze,
except that the Cemetery Superintendent may give written permission to install
monuments of other durable materials. Markers shall be made of permanent
materials (except temporary markers may be placed until such time as their
appearance warrants removal).
   (d)   Lot owners may mark boundaries in cement or stone, however, original
markers must not be disturbed and flush mounting is required.
   (e)   Government markers may be installed by city employees or contract
workers. The charge shall be as established under §
12-112.
   (f)   Monuments and markers shall be installed in accordance with
specifications approved by the governing body and on file in the office of the
City Clerk. Said specifications shall include provisions for monuments in
Babyland.
   (g)   Maintenance of monuments, foot stones and private markers is the
responsibility of the lot owner.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-115 FOOT STONES.
   All foot stones shall be installed flush with the ground level except for
those lots where existing foot stones have been installed above ground.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-116 MONUMENT WORK; PERMIT; FEE.
   (a)   All monument and marker installations in the city cemetery shall be
performed by professional monument installers. Before working in the city
cemetery, installers must submit to the City Clerk proof of public liability
insurance in the amount of $50,000, and pay a permit fee as provided under §
12-112.
   (b)   The Cemetery Superintendent shall mark out the location for monuments
or markers.
   (c)   If, upon inspection by the Cemetery Superintendent, a monument or
marker is determined to be improperly installed, the city reserves the right to
require the installer to correct the deficiency.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-117 ENCLOSING LOTS, COVERING GRAVES PROHIBITED.
   Any fence, hedge, coping, curbing, or other means of enclosure of a lot is
prohibited. Any covering for a lot or grave except sod is prohibited.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-118 PERMANENT MOUNDING OF GRAVES PROHIBITED.
   The permanent mounding up of a grave is prohibited.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-119 PERMANENT PLANTINGS.
   (a)   Permission to plant. Prior to planting, the Cemetery Supervisor shall
approve all permanent plant materials and shall approve planting locations,
which must be within eight inches of the headstone. In no event shall planting
be permitted adjacent to foot stones.
   (b)   Care. Cemetery personnel shall trim, prune and otherwise care for
plant materials, as provided under §
12-126. Neglected, misplaced, dead, unkempt, unauthorized or hazardous
plantings, including trees, may be removed by the Cemetery Supervisor or crew
as necessary to maintain the attractive, safe and neat appearance of the
cemetery.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992; Ord. 1514, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 12-120 FLOWERS; OBJECTS.
   (a)   Artificial flowers not in a pre-approved permanent floral display
container of a type specified in the Wamego City Cemetery Regulations may be
placed adjacent to grave monuments only during the period from October 1
through April 1.
   (b)   (a)   Artificial flowers in a permanent floral display container of a
type specified in the Wamego City Cemetery Regulatons are permitted adjacent to
grave monuments year-round unless they become faded, broken or deteriorated.
      (b)   The Cemetery Supervisor or crew is authorized to remove and dispose
of these items, without notice to the lot owner.
   (c)   (a)   Seasonal flowers, cut flowers, artificial plants or flowers and
wreaths shall be permitted on the entire grave space area for ten days
immediately following the date of interment on said grave. They may also be
permitted on the entire grave space for a period commencing five days before
Memorial Day and ending five days following Memorial Day.
      (b)   Flowers not in a container of a type specified in the Wamego City
Cemetery Regulations shall be removed by the Cemetery Supervisor or crew, June
20 or thereafter.
   (d)   Damaged or faded artificial flowers or wreaths may be removed by the
Cemetery Supervisor as necessary to maintain the attractive, safe and neat
appearance of the cemetery. Any flowers on the ground will be discarded during
mowing season (June 20 through October 1).
   (e)   (a)   Lot owners are prohibited from placing on graves all toys,
glass, chinaware or other commemorative articles of any kind, with the
exception that memorial markers from the armed services or nationally
recognized clubs shall be permitted.
      (b)   Prohibited articles so placed shall be removed and disposed of by
the Cemetery Supervisor or crew, without notice to the owner.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992; Ord. 1514, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 12-121 REMOVAL OF ENCLOSURES OR OTHER MATERIALS.
    The city reserves the right to remove any enclosure which has fallen into a
state of disrepair or any other material which is deemed detrimental to the
general good appearance of the grounds, or which shall, in the opinion of the
Cemetery Superintendent prevent the easy or proper care of the cemetery.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-122 CONDUCT IN THE CITY CEMETERY.
   (a)   All persons within the city cemetery shall conduct themselves in a
manner consistent with the solemn nature of a public cemetery.
   (b)   No persons, without specific authority from the city shall:
      (1)   Deposit rubbish or debris on any part of the cemetery grounds,
except in receptacles provided;
      (2)   Remove objects not belonging to them, pick flowers, shrubs or
plants or injure anything on any part of the grounds;
      (3)   Permit any dog to enter or remain in the cemetery;
      (4)   Consume or carry any type of liquid or alcoholic refreshments; and
      (5)   Carry firearms, except as permitted for military funerals.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-123 PERMANENT MAINTENANCE FUND; ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Permanent Maintenance Fund as authorized by
K.S.A. 12-1408 to 12-1411 and any amendments thereto.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-124 SAME; CHARGES; DEPOSIT.
   The permanent maintenance charge for each lot, fraction thereof, or grave
space sold shall be determined by resolution adopted by the governing body.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-125 SAME; USE; INVESTMENT.
   All monies received from these charges shall be deposited to the credit of
the Permanent Maintenance Fund in a checking account in a local bank. Funds may
be withdrawn only by a check signed by the City Manager and countersigned by
the City Clerk. All monies in the Permanent Maintenance Fund may be invested in
bonds of the United States or the State of Kansas, or any municipality thereof.
The interest received from such investments shall be deposited to the credit of
the General Fund and shall be used only for the maintenance and operation of
the cemetery.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-126 PERMANENT MAINTENANCE CARE; DEFINITION.
   Permanent maintenance care entitles a lot, fraction thereof or grave space
to normal maintenance including cutting of grass weeds, trimming of bushes and
trees, and removal of rubbish and trash. Such care does not include special
care or cultivation of flowers, bushes, shrubs or plants on lots, fractions
thereof or grave spaces. Repair of shifting or damaged monuments is the lot
owner’s responsibility unless damaged by city personnel.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-127 CEMETERY HOURS.
   The city cemetery shall be open to the public each day from 7:00 a.m. until
sundown. It shall be unlawful for any other person, other than cemetery
personnel or persons so authorized by the City Manager, to be upon the cemetery
grounds at any other time.
(Ord. 1113, passed 4-21-1992)
§ 12-128 COLUMBARIUM REGULATIONS.
   Regulations governing columbarium niche purchases and fees, columbarium
interment, marking and decoration shall be as contained in the Wamego City
Cemetery Columbarium Rules and Regulations to be approved and amended by
resolution of the city’s governing body, and made available to the public at
the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1593, passed 7-3-2012)
ARTICLE 2: HOSPITAL
Section
   
12-201   Board of Trustees; appointment
   
12-202   Same; qualifications
   
12-203   Same; appointment; five-year term
   
12-204   Same; organization; oath; bond
   
12-205   Same; compensation
   
12-206   Same; bylaws, rules, regulations
   
12-207   Vouchers and warrants
   
12-208   Superintendent, assistants; appointment
   
12-209   Meetings, records, reports
   
12-210   Trustees, removal from office
   
12-211   Vacancies
   
12-212   Hospital admission
   
12-213   Hospital rules: application
   
12-214   Donations
   
12-215   Authority to invest donations, gifts, bequests, devises
§ 12-201 BOARD OF TRUSTEES; APPOINTMENT.
   (a)   The management and governance of the Wamego City Hospital shall be
lodged in a Board of Trustees, consisting of seven suitable persons chosen with
reference to their special fitness of such office. Except for the Trustees
serving at the adoption of this ordinance who shall continue to serve, unless
duly reappointed, until the end of their currently appointed terms without
further action required by the governing body, each Trustee shall be appointed
by the Mayor with the consent of the governing body and shall be known as and
constitute the Board of Trustees of the Wamego City Hospital.
   (b)   The Board of Trustees shall consist of positions numbered 1 through 7,
inclusive. The members of the Board of Trustees, as it is constituted at the
time of the adoption of this ordinance, shall be deemed to occupy positions
numbered 1 through 5, inclusive, ordered with position numbered 1 assigned to
the Board of Trustee member whose current term will be the first to expire
following the adoption of this ordinance and position numbered 5 assigned to
the Board of Trustee member whose current term will be the last to expire
following the adoption of this ordinance with positions numbered 2, 3 and 4
assigned in like fashion to the other Board of Trustee members in similar
order.
   (c)   Upon adoption and publication of this ordinance, the Mayor shall
appoint, in accord with this section, a qualified person to Position Number 6
and Position Number 7. The initial term for Board of Trustee Position Number 6
shall be until December 31, 2000. The initial term of Board of Trustee Position
Number 7 shall be until December 31, 2002.
(Ord. 1280, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 12-202 SAME; QUALIFICATIONS.
   Residents of the City of Wamego, Kansas, and the community about the city
may serve, upon appointment, qualification and upon taking any required oath
and the giving of any required bond, as members of the Board of Trustees. No
more than one physician, surgeon or pharmacist shall be eligible to serve upon
the Board of Trustees at anytime. No more than two persons who are not
residents of the City of Wamego, Kansas, may serve as a member of the Board of
Trustees at anytime. Any vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as the
making of the original appointment.
(Ord. 1280, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 12-203 SAME; APPOINTMENT; FIVE-YEAR TERM.
   At the first regular meeting of the governing body of the city, in January
of each year, the Mayor shall appoint one person for each position on the Board
of Trustees for which the term of such position expired during the preceding
calendar year.
(Ord. 1280, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 12-204 SAME; ORGANIZATION; OATH; BOND.
   Each Trustee shall within ten days after his or her appointment qualify by
taking the oath of civil officers. The Board shall at its first regular meeting
in January of each year, organize by the election of one of its members as
Chairperson, one or more of its members as a Vice Chairperson, one as Secretary
and one as Treasurer. No bond shall be required by any member except the
Treasurer, who before entering upon his or her duties shall give a good and
sufficient corporate surety bond, to be executed by a responsible bonding
company authorized to do business in Kansas, the bond to be approved by the
governing Board of the city in the sum of $10,000. Such bond shall be filed in
the office of the City Clerk. The cost of the surety bond shall be paid for
from the funds of the Wamego City Hospital. (K.S.A. 14-605)
§ 12-205 SAME; COMPENSATION.
   The Trustees shall receive no compensation for their service, except for the
Treasurer and Secretary who shall receive such compensation for their services
as may be deemed fair and proper by the Board of Trustees. Each Trustee may be
reimbursed for any necessary cash expenditures actually made for personal
expenses incurred as such Trustee if an itemized and verified statement of all
such expenses and money paid out shall be made and filed with the Secretary,
and allowed by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board.
§ 12-206 SAME; BYLAWS, RULES, REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to do all and everything
necessary to properly conduct the hospital in accord with these ordinances and
not inconsistent with the laws of the state and of the city. The Board of
Trustees shall make and adopt such bylaws, rules and regulations for its own
guidance and for the governance and management of the hospital, as it may deem
expedient and required for the economical and proper conduct of the hospital,
not inconsistent with the laws of the state and of the city.
(Ord. 1280, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 12-207 VOUCHERS AND WARRANTS.
   The Board shall have control of the expenditures of all money collected and
placed to the credit of the General Hospital Fund, and of the supervision, care
and custody of the grounds, buildings and facilities. All monies received for
the hospital shall be deposited with the Treasurer of the Board of Trustees,
and shall be paid out only upon warrants or checks drawn and signed by one of
the following: administrator of the hospital; business manager of the hospital;
or a member of the Board upon proper authenticated vouchers. At each regular
meeting of the Board, there shall be a review of a list of all warrants or
checks drawn for the period since the last regular meeting.
(Ord. 1013, passed 6-2-1987)
§ 12-208 SUPERINTENDENT, ASSISTANTS; APPOINTMENT.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to appoint or remove a suitable
Superintendent and any necessary assistants, and fix their compensation.
(Ord. 1280, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 12-209 MEETINGS, RECORDS, REPORTS.
   The Board shall hold meetings at least once each month and shall keep a
complete record of its proceedings; one of the Board shall visit and examine
the hospital at least twice each month and the Board shall submit to the
governing body of the city at its first regular meeting in January of each year
a detailed report of the proceedings of the Board and a statement of all
receipts and expenditures and money received during the year.
§ 12-210 TRUSTEES, REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   For good cause shown any member of the Board may be removed by the Mayor, by
and with the consent of the governing body. Before any member shall be removed,
charges in writing duly verified by oath shall be filed with the Clerk of the
city and due notice thereof given to the member against whom such charges have
been lodged, and the governing body shall have power to hear and determine such
charges on sworn evidence and their finding shall be final unless within ten
days from the date of the finding of the governing body, the member shall
appeal to the District Court of Pottawatomie County.
§ 12-211 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies in the Board occasioned by expiration of term of office, death,
removals, resignations or otherwise, shall be reported to the governing body
and be filled in like manner as original appointments. Such appointees, except
those appointed to fill vacancies resulting from the expiration of a term of
office shall hold office for the unexpired term of such member.
§ 12-212 HOSPITAL ADMISSION.
   The hospital shall be open to all inhabitants of the city and the community
about the city and for any person falling sick or being injured or maimed, and
every such person who is not a pauper shall pay a reasonable compensation for
occupancy, nursing, care, medicine or attendants, according to the rules and
regulations prescribed by the Board. The Board may exclude from the use of the
hospital any and all persons who shall willfully violate such rules and
regulations.
§ 12-213 HOSPITAL RULES: APPLICATION.
   The physicians, nurses, attendants and persons sick therein, all persons in
and around the hospital, all furniture and other articles used or brought
there, shall be subject to such rules and regulations as shall be prescribed by
the Board.
§ 12-214 DONATIONS.
   Any person or persons, firm, organization, corporation or society, desiring
to make donations of money, personal property or real estate, or to bequeath or
devise any property for the purpose of maintaining the Wamego City Hospital,
for the treatment of persons ill with bodily ailments and disease or for
surgery in general or special, or for special classes of diseases, whether
contagious or infectious or otherwise, shall have the right to vest the title
to the money or property so donated, bequeathed or devised in the Board of
Trustees of the Wamego City Hospital of Wamego, Kansas.
§ 12-215 AUTHORITY TO INVEST DONATIONS, GIFTS, BEQUESTS, DEVISES.
   All sums received from gifts, donations, bequests and devises in any one
year, except such sums as may be necessary for operating, repair and
maintenance expense for such current year, shall be placed in an endowment
fund, and shall be invested by the Board only in assets eligible for the
investment of funds of legal reserve life insurance companies in the State of
Kansas as stated in K.S.A. 40-403 and acts amendatory thereof or supplemental
thereto. The term “admitted assets” stated in such section shall be deemed to
mean the amount of the fund, and the provisions relating to limitation of
investments as a percent of surplus and loans to policyholders shall be
inapplicable with respect to the investment of the fund. However, it is
intended that nothing in this section shall prohibit the Board from using any
sums received from gifts, donations, bequests or devises, or any endowment
funds for the purpose of constructing, purchasing or acquiring any new hospital
buildings, additions, facilities or equipment, or the purchase or acquisition
of additional land needed for such construction of buildings, additions or
facilities. The use to be made of such donations, gifts, bequests or devises
shall not be in conflict with the terms and conditions of the donations, gifts,
bequests or devises.
ARTICLE 3: LIBRARY
Section
   
12-301   Public library established; Library Board
   
12-302   Library Board; membership; appointment
   
12-303   Same: officers; meetings
   
12-304   Same; powers and duties
   
12-305   Same; funds; disbursements; treasurer
   
12-306   Destroying library property
   
12-307   Retaining library property
§ 12-301 PUBLIC LIBRARY ESTABLISHED; LIBRARY BOARD.
   The library of the city shall be known as “The Wamego Public Library”. The
Mayor with the approval of the governing body is hereby authorized to appoint a
Library Board for the operation and maintenance of such library as provided for
by K.S.A. 12-1218 through 12-1230 and all acts mandatory or supplemental
thereto; and the Board so appointed is authorized to continue the maintenance
of the library in accordance with provisions of the laws applicable thereto.
The Mayor shall be ex officio member of the Library Board with the same powers
as the appointed members but no person holding any office in the city shall be
appointed a member while holding such office.
§ 12-302 LIBRARY BOARD; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor shall appoint, with the approval of the governing body, a Library
Board for the city library. The Board shall consist of seven members to be
appointed in the manner and for terms provided by law and the Mayor of the city
who shall be ex officio a member of the Board with the same powers as appointed
members.
§ 12-303 SAME: OFFICERS; MEETINGS.
   (a)   The Board shall annually meet and organize by the election of a
Chairperson, a Secretary and a Treasurer and such other officers as they may
deem necessary. The Board shall fix the date and place of its regular meetings
and special meetings may be called by the Chairperson or upon written request
of a majority of the members in the manner provided by law.
   (b)   Any Board member who has three consecutive, unexcused absences from
Board meetings or who misses more than six meetings in a calendar year will be
considered inactive and informed in writing that a replacement to the Board
will be sought by the governing body.
(Ord. 1486, passed 9-5-2006)
§ 12-304 SAME; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall be responsible for the general operation and maintenance of
the library and shall make and adopt rules and regulations for the
administration thereof in accordance with applicable state law.
§ 12-305 SAME; FUNDS; DISBURSEMENTS; TREASURER.
   The funds received and set over to the Library Board by the city shall be
deposited in a separate fund in the city treasury and the Treasurer of the city
may be ex officio Treasurer of the Library Board. All funds of the Library
Board shall be disbursed upon claims properly itemized and certified as
required by law. Warrant checks shall be signed by the Chairperson of the
Library Board and the Secretary and countersigned by the Treasurer of the
Library Board.
(K.S.A. 12-1226)
§ 12-306 DESTROYING LIBRARY PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully injure or destroy any book,
map, chart or magazine or any property of like nature belonging to the library.
§ 12-307 RETAINING LIBRARY PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to take from the library any
book, map, chart, magazine or other personal property except in conformity with
the rules, or for any person willfully to retain any such personal property,
having lawfully or unlawfully obtained possession of same, after having been
notified by the librarian to return the same.
ARTICLE 4: AIRPORT
Section
   
12-401   Wamego Airport Board; creation; appointment; terms; vacancies
   
12-402   Same; organization
   
12-403   Same; compensation
   
12-404   Same; powers
   
12-405   Same; financial accountability
   
12-406   Same; limitations
§ 12-401 WAMEGO AIRPORT BOARD; CREATION; APPOINTMENT; TERMS; VACANCIES.
   The management and operation of the Wamego Municipal Airport shall be lodged
in a Board consisting of five suitable persons from the citizens of the city
and citizens who live within a three-mile radius of the city. They shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the governing body and shall be
known as and constitute the Wamego Airport Board. The appointed members of the
Board shall serve for three years except that the Mayor with the consent of the
governing body shall initially appoint one Board member for a term expiring one
year after the date of appointment, two Board members for a term expiring two
years after the date of appointment; and three Board members for a term
expiring three years after the date of appointment. Thereafter upon the
expiration of the term of any Board member, the Mayor with the consent of the
governing body shall appoint one person to serve as a Board member in each
vacancy created for a term of three years. Any member of the Board may be
removed by the governing body for the same cause as any appointive officer.
(Ord. 883, passed - -)
§ 12-402 SAME; ORGANIZATION.
   The appointed board members shall annually elect among themselves the
following officers: Chairperson; Vice Chairperson; and Secretary-Treasurer; and
shall meet on a regularly scheduled basis not less than quarterly at a location
to be determined by the Board. The Board shall keep minutes of each of their
meetings to be signed by the Chairperson and Secretary-Treasurer.
(Ord. 883, passed - -)
§ 12-403 SAME; COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board shall receive no compensation for their services.
(Ord. 883, passed - -)
§ 12-404 SAME; POWERS.
   The Board shall have the following powers and authority:
   (a)   To make long range plans for the operation and improvement of the
airport for presentation to the governing body;
   (b)   To have the power to rent and lease airport hangar structures on a
month to month basis;
   (c)   To spend such funds as are delegated to it by the governing body and
as are collected from rents for the maintenance, upkeep and improvement of the
airport; and
   (d)   To, with the approval of the governing body, make and adopt rules and
regulations for the administration of the airport.
(Ord. 883, passed - -)
§ 12-405 SAME; FINANCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY.
   The Board shall keep such books as are sufficient to undergo a yearly audit,
the cost of the yearly audit to be paid for by the Board. The Board shall
provide quarterly financial statements to the governing body.
(Ord. 883, passed - -)
§ 12-406 SAME; LIMITATIONS.
   The Board shall not have authority to levy taxes, make expenditure of funds
not appropriated to them specifically by the governing body, to convey real
estate or to lease real estate or personal property for any period longer than
month to month or to contract any form of debt or to do any other acts not
specifically set out under the terms of this article or any resolution made by
the governing body.
(Ord. 883, passed - -)
ARTICLE 5: CITY PARKS
Section
   
12-501   Parks and Recreation Department; created
   
12-502   Parks and Recreation Department Supervisor
   
12-503   Parks and Recreation Advisory Board; duties; membership; terms
   
12-504   Preservation of natural state
   
12-505   General regulations
   
12-506   City laws extended to park
   
12-507   Police jurisdiction over parks
   
12-508   City of Wamego parks; identification
   
12-509   Same; posting of special rules
   
12-510   Same; special use
   
12-511   Same; hours
   
12-512   Same; prohibited behavior
   
12-513   Dangerous weapons not allowed
   
12-514   Vehicle regulations
   
12-515   Hunting
   
12-516   Fires
   
12-517   Camping prohibited
   
12-518   Prohibition against alcoholic beverages and cereal malt beverages
   
12-519   Fireworks
§ 12-501 PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT; CREATED.
   For the purpose of providing for the operation, maintenance and improvement
of a park system and conducting a supervised recreation program, there is
hereby established in the city a Parks and Recreation Department to function
under the direction of the City Manager.
(Ord. 1367, passed 12-4-2001)
§ 12-502 PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT SUPERVISOR.
   The Parks and Recreation Department Supervisor, subject to the direction of
the City Manager, shall be in charge of the operation, maintenance and
improvement of the city park system and operation of the city recreation
program, including establishment of suitable rules and regulations for the
conduct of the program. The Parks and Recreation Department Supervisor shall
have assistants and employees as may be determined by the City Manager.
(Ord. 1367, passed 12-4-2001)
§ 12-503 PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY BOARD; DUTIES; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   For the purpose of advising the governing body in matters pertaining to the
operation, maintenance and improvements of a city park system and conducting a
supervised recreation program, including recommendations regarding suitable
rules for the conduct of the program, there is hereby established a Recreation
Advisory Board pursuant to K.S.A. 12-1930. Such Board shall be appointed by the
governing body of the city. No more than two members thereof shall reside
outside the corporate limits of the city. Members shall serve upon such Board
for the term for which they were appointed by the governing body to the
Recreation Commission and upon the expiration of the term of any member,
appointment shall be made to fill such position for a term of four years.
(Ord. 1367, passed 12-4-2001; Ord. 1443, passed 12-7-2004)
§ 12-504 PRESERVATION OF NATURAL STATE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except duly authorized city employees,
to take, injure, or disturb any live or dead tree, plant, shrub, or flower, or
otherwise interfere with the natural state of city parks.
§ 12-505 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   The city may post such rules and regulations, as are approved by the
governing body, pertaining to the use of the city parks in a conspicuous place
in each city park. Violations of these posted rules shall constitute a
violation of this code.
§ 12-506 CITY LAWS EXTENDED TO PARK.
   The laws of the city shall extend to and cover all city parks.
§ 12-507 POLICE JURISDICTION OVER PARKS.
   The city shall have police regulations governing any public parks belonging
to the city and the Chief of Police and law enforcement officers of the city
shall have full power to enforce city laws governing city parks and shall
maintain order therein.
§ 12-508 CITY OF WAMEGO PARKS; IDENTIFICATION.
   The following shall be defined as City of Wamego Parks: Miller Park, Morton
Park, Riverside Park; Railroad Park; Pennyland Park; Wamego City Park; Ball
Park located on 4th Street; and Wamego Recreation Complex, located at U.S. 24
and Balderson Boulevard.
(Ord. 1534, passed 12-2-2008)
§ 12-509 SAME; POSTING OF SPECIAL RULES.
   A city designee may post signs and notices informing the public of the
regulations regarding the use of the City of Wamego parks and recreational
facilities therein. The city designee may establish rules and regulations for
participation in all Recreation Department sponsored activities and special
events.
(Ord. 1534, passed 12-2-2008)
§ 12-510 SAME; SPECIAL USE.
   A city designee may authorize special uses for City of Wamego Parks and
accompanying facilities. Tents, canopies, awnings and other temporary
structures are prohibited in City of Wamego Parks except in designated areas
and upon special written approval by the city.
(Ord. 1534, passed 12-2-2008)
§ 12-511 SAME; HOURS.
   All City of Wamego Parks shall be open to the public between the hours of 5:
00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. inclusive. A city designee may authorize use of such
parks outside of the times specified herein.
(Ord. 1534, passed 12-2-2008)
§ 12-512 SAME; PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR.
   Disruptive behavior, including but not limited to: drunkenness, playing of
loud music, use of vile, offensive, obscene, or abusive language or gestures,
or engaging in noisy conduct that might cause alarm or anger to other park
visitors is hereby prohibited in City of Wamego Parks. Any person engaging in
such behavior shall be in violation of this article, and shall be subject to a
fine not to exceed $100.
(Ord. 1534, passed 12-2-2008)
§ 12-513 DANGEROUS WEAPONS NOT ALLOWED.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) below, it shall be unlawful for any
person to carry or have in his or her possession any firearm or dangerous
weapon or to shoot or discharge the same within the limits of any city parks.
   (b)   The provisions of division (a) above shall not apply to duly
authorized law enforcement officers in the performance of official duty.
§ 12-514 VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Motor vehicles, including any vehicle licensed to operate on public
streets, roads and highways and motorbikes, special purpose vehicles, go-carts
snowmobiles, off-road vehicles shall be always operated in a safe manner on
park roadways.
   (b)   Except as provided in division (c) below, it shall be unlawful for any
person to drive any motor driven vehicle over or across any portion of the city
parks or public grounds where decorative vegetation or grass exists except on
designated drives and parking areas.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in any park area unless it
is being driven by city staff for maintenance or emergency purposes or as part
of the set up or maintenance of a City Commission-approved or sponsored event.
(Ord. 1806, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 12-515 HUNTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pursue, catch, trap, maim, kill,
shoot or take any wildlife, either bird or animal, in any manner at any time
while in any city park.
§ 12-516 FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or kindle any fire in any city
park except in the ovens, stoves or grills provided for that purpose by the
city, and such fire must be extinguished by the person, persons or parties
starting such fire, immediately after use thereof.
§ 12-517 CAMPING PROHIBITED.
   Overnight camping is hereby prohibited in city parks except where posted.
§ 12-518 PROHIBITION AGAINST ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to use, consume or have on
the premises of any park or other city property within the city any alcoholic
liquor or cereal malt beverage.
§ 12-519 FIREWORKS.
   No fireworks shall be discharged or fired in any public park, except that
the governing body may issue special permits for fireworks displays on special
occasions to civic or patriotic organizations or to public school officials,
upon written application, only if the applicant agrees that such display shall
be open to the public and subject to the supervision and direction of the Fire
Chief.
(Ord. 1523, passed 6-17-2008)
CHAPTER XIII: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   Article
      
1.   STREETS
      
2.   SIDEWALKS
      
3.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
4.   SNOW AND ICE
ARTICLE 1: STREETS
Section
   
13-101   Excavation permit; fees
   
13-102   Same; bond
   
13-103   Same; filed
   
13-104   Same; barricades
   
13-105   Same; unlawful acts
   
13-106   Cutting curbs; pavement
   
13-107   Backfill and restoration
   
13-108   Payment to city required
   
13-109   Inspection of work
   
13-110   Excavation materials
   
13-111   Same; temporary backfill by contractor
   
13-112   Street excavation diagram
   
13-113   Same; compliance
   
13-114   Penalty
   
13-115   Altering drainage
   
13-116   Unfinished pavement
   
13-117   Using streets
   
13-118   Obstructing streets
   
13-119   Barbed wire
   
13-120   Dangerous objects
   
13-121   Petroleum products in streets
   
13-122   Burning in streets
   
13-123   Hauling loose material
   
13-124   Throwing in streets
   
13-125   Discharging water on streets
   
13-126   Hauling loose material
   
13-127   Obstructing rail crossing
   
13-128   Train crew; warning
§ 13-101 EXCAVATION PERMIT; FEES.
   (a)   No person, other than authorized city employees, shall dig or excavate
any hole, ditch, trench or tunnel in or under any street, alley, sidewalk, park
or other public property or public easement through private property without
first having secured a permit for such excavation. Application shall be made to
the City Clerk.
   (b)   An inspection fee of $10 shall be charged by the city for all
excavation permits for curb cuts or any other excavations where the permit
applicant or agent is to perform the backfill or the backfill and pavement
restoration work, rather than the city.
(Ord. 1211, passed 8-16-1994)
§ 13-102 SAME; BOND.
   (a)   No permit authorized in this article shall be issued until the
applicant has given to the city a good and sufficient bond in the sum of $5,000
conditioned that the applicant will faithfully comply with all the terms and
conditions of this article, and will indemnify and hold the city harmless
against all costs, expenses, damages and injuries by persons or by the city
sustained by reason of the carelessness or negligence of the permit holder. No
bond for this purpose shall run for longer than two years without being
renewed. The bond shall remain in full force and effect as to each excavation
for two years after the same has been made or completed.
   (b)   Any utility operating under a franchise or a contractor under contract
with the city for municipal improvement shall not be required to give bond as
provided in division (a) above.
   (c)   Each bond given under this section shall be approved by the City
Attorney and filed with the City Clerk.
§ 13-103 SAME; FILED.
   If the application is approved by the city, the City Clerk shall issue a
permit upon payment of a fee of $5. Each permit issued under the provisions of
this section shall cover only one specified excavation.
§ 13-104 SAME; BARRICADES.
   Any person to whom an excavation permit is issued shall enclose all
excavations which they make with sufficient barricades and danger signs at all
times, and shall maintain sufficient warning lights or flares at nighttime. The
holder of an excavation permit shall take all necessary precautions to guard
the public against all accidents from the beginning of the work to the
completion of the same.
§ 13-105 SAME; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except those having authority from the
city or any officer thereof to throw down, interfere with or remove any
barriers, barricades or lights placed in any street to guard and warn the
traveling public of any construction work thereon or adjacent thereto.
§ 13-106 CUTTING CURBS; PAVEMENT.
   (a)   No person shall cut any curb, gutter, pavement, blacktop, sidewalk or
excavate any street, alley or other public grounds of the city for any purpose
without first obtaining a permit authorizing the same from the City Clerk.
   (b)   Once the work for which the excavation was made has been completed the
city shall restore the pavement, blacktop, sidewalk or other surfacing at the
expense of the person from whom the excavation was made. Note that the city
will not typically repair curb or sidewalks after private work. The city shall,
however, restore the street.
   (c)   In lieu of the city replacing pavement, it may elect to authorize
utility companies or contractors to resurface streets or sidewalks with like
materials, subject to approval of the Street Superintendent.
§ 13-107 BACKFILL AND RESTORATION.
   (a)   Where a person has made any excavation, opening or cutting in any
street, alley, sidewalk, curb or gutter in the city, and it has been
established at the time of issuance of the excavation permit that the city is
to perform the backfill and restoration work, such person shall immediately
notify the Director of Public Works as soon as the excavation is ready for
backfill. The city will then proceed to fill the excavation, opening or cutting
in such a manner as to place the street, alley, sidewalk, curb or gutter in a
condition as nearly as possible like that which existed prior to the making of
such excavation, opening or cut.
   (b)   Where it has been established that the person who made the excavation,
opening or cut is to perform the backfill but not the surface paving or
restoration work, such person shall immediately notify the Director of Public
Works as soon as the excavation is ready for backfill. The Director of Public
Works and/or Building Official shall then inspect the backfill materials and
procedures used for conformance with city standards. Upon completion of the
backfill, the city shall proceed to resurface the excavation to a condition as
nearly as possible like that which existed prior to the making of such
excavation, opening or cut. Backflow work shall then be warranted by the
excavator for a period of one year.
   (c)   Where it has been established that the backfill and surface paving or
other restoration work is to be performed by the person who has made the
excavation, opening or cut, such as in the case of a curb cut, such person
shall immediately notify the Director of Public Works and/or Building Official
as soon as the excavation is ready for backfill, surface restoration materials,
forming and procedures used, for conformance with city standards. The Director
of Public Works and/or Building Official shall then inspect the backfill and
surface restoration.
   (d)   No person who has made any such excavation, opening or cut, shall
leave such excavation, opening or cut longer than is reasonably necessary.
   (e)   Restoration of paving materials for all streets shall only be done by
city crews, or by a contractor approved by the city. If the work is to be
performed by a contractor, work shall be warranted for a period of one year.
(Ord. 1211, passed 8-16-1994; Ord. 1282, passed 3-3-1998)
§ 13-108 PAYMENT TO CITY REQUIRED.
   When the city has performed the backfill and/or surface restoration of the
excavation, opening or cut, it shall submit a statement of the cost thereof,
including charges for labor, materials and equipment used, to the person who
caused the excavation, opening or cut to be made. Said person shall pay the sum
to the city within 30 days after being billed therefor by the city. All such
payments received by the city shall be placed in the city fund out of which the
charges for labor, materials and equipment were paid.
(Ord. 1211, passed 8-16-1994)
§ 13-109 INSPECTION OF WORK.
   The Director of Public Works shall inspect all excavation made under the
provisions of this article, except excavations on sidewalks or curbs and
gutters, which shall be inspected by the Building Official.
(Ord. 1211, passed 8-16-1994)
§ 13-110 EXCAVATION MATERIALS.
   (a)   All excavations in any street and in any paved surface other than the
street, as governed by this article shall be backfilled with dig-able, flow-
able fill, having specifications in accordance with city standards, to the
grade of the bottom of the adjacent paving material or, in the case of gravel
streets, eight inches below surface grade. Excavations extending two feet or
more beyond the edge of paved surfaces (to include curb and gutters) shall be
backfilled with flow-able fill to 12 inches below the surface.
   (b)   Backfill using other materials shall be permissable for unpaved
locations governed by this article, other than unpaved streets, where approved
by the Director of Public Works or the Building Official, providing such
backfill is compacted according to city standards. All excavated materials
shall be removed by the excavator and disposed of in an appropriate manner.
(Ord. 1398, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 13-111 SAME; TEMPORARY BACKFILL BY CONTRACTOR.
   The remaining eight inches between the excavation level and the surface
level shall be filled with AB-3 (crushed rock), leaving no more than one-inch
rise above the existing surrounding street grade after compaction.
§ 13-112 STREET EXCAVATION DIAGRAM.
   A minimum of 12 inches of street surface or material to compacted sub-grade
shall be removed for an excavation up to six feet in depth. An additional one
inch shall be removed for every foot of excavation over six feet.
§ 13-113 SAME; COMPLIANCE.
   Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of §§
13-110 through 13-112 shall be required to re-excavate and refill in accordance
with the approved method.
§ 13-114 PENALTY.
   Any person making any excavations, openings or cuts in the streets, alleys,
sidewalks, curbs, gutters or public grounds of the city without first complying
with the provisions of this article or who violates any of the provisions of
this article, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this code, and upon
conviction shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $100.
§ 13-115 ALTERING DRAINAGE.
   No person shall change or alter any gutter, storm sewer, drain or drainage
structure which has been constructed, or is being lawfully maintained or
controlled by the city unless such change or alteration has been authorized or
directed by the governing body.
§ 13-116 UNFINISHED PAVEMENT.
   No person shall walk upon, drive or ride over or across any pavement,
sidewalk or incomplete grading which has not been opened for traffic.
§ 13-117 USING STREETS.
   (a)   No person shall occupy any portion of any street, alley or sidewalk
for the purpose of temporarily storing building materials without first
obtaining a permit for such temporary use from the City Manager.
   (b)   No person may use any portion of any sidewalk or street right-of-way
for the purpose of displaying or offering for sale wares, goods, merchandise or
other items. Nothing in this article, however, shall be construed as
prohibiting the city governing body from temporarily waiving the prohibition of
this division (b) in connection with community promotions or community-wide
celebrations when such waiver is considered to be in the best interest of the
city. Note that the city does permit merchandise on sidewalks.
(Ord. 1359, passed 7-17-2001)
§ 13-118 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to throw, place, drop,
leave or otherwise deposit or cause to be thrown, placed, dropped, left or
otherwise deposited any trash, mud, dirt, rubbish or other material, in the
gutter on any of the streets of the city and leave the same in such gutter for
a period of more than 12 hours.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful to place boxes, barrels, samples, signs, vehicles
or any other obstruction upon any sidewalk, street, avenue or alley. However,
note that the Zoning Ordinance Sign Code permits signs on sidewalks downtown.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or be upon any crossing
or sidewalk or street so as unnecessarily to prevent, interrupt or obstruct the
travel on or free passage over the same.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain or permit
the construction or maintenance of any gate opening over or across any sidewalk
or so as to open or swing into the street.
§ 13-119 BARBED WIRE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, construct or maintain or to
permit the building, construction or maintenance of any barbed wire fence or
fence with barbed wire upon it, upon or along any street, avenue or alley.
§ 13-120 DANGEROUS OBJECTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, throw or cause to be placed or
thrown in or on any street, alley, sidewalk or other public grounds of the
city, any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, wire or other dangerous objects that
might wound any person or animal, or cut or puncture any pneumatic tire while
passing over the same.
§ 13-121 PETROLEUM PRODUCTS IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit or throw
any waste oil, fuel oil, kerosene, gasoline or other products of petroleum or
any acids into or upon any street or public grounds of the city, or willfully
to permit the same to be spilled, dripped or otherwise to come into contact
with the surface of any street, alley or sidewalk within the city.
§ 13-122 BURNING IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made, any fire
upon any of the paved streets, alleys or street intersections within the city.
§ 13-123 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful to haul over the streets or alleys of this city any
loose material of any kind except in a vehicle so constructed or maintained as
to prevent the splashing or spilling of any of the substances therein contained
upon the streets or alleys.
§ 13-124 THROWING IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to throw or bat any ball, stone or other hard substance
into, on or across any street or alley or at or against any building or
vehicle.
§ 13-125 DISCHARGING WATER ON STREETS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to throw or
discharge water into any ditch, street, avenue or alley in the city or to cause
any water to stand or form pools or to flow in a stream thereon.
   (b)   This section shall not apply to persons cleaning or flushing such
streets, avenues or alleys under the authority of the governing body, nor to
members of the Fire Department.
§ 13-126 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful to haul over the streets or alleys of this city any
loose material of any kind except in a vehicle having a tight box so
constructed as to prevent the splashing or spilling of any of the substances
therein contained upon the streets or alleys.
§ 13-127 OBSTRUCTING RAIL CROSSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company or any person operating a
railroad in the city, to allow its trains, engines or cars to stand upon any
crossing or street in excess of ten minutes at any one time without leaving an
opening in the traveled portion of the street or crossing of at least 30 feet
wide.
§ 13-128 TRAIN CREW; WARNING.
   It shall be unlawful for the conductor or engineer of any train, engine or
moving cars not preceded by an engine to cross any street, alley or public
place without causing a person to be stationed upon the end of the first car or
at the crossing to warn of the approaching cars.
ARTICLE 2: SIDEWALKS
Section
   
13-201   Permit required
   
13-202   Sidewalk grade
   
13-203   Same; specifications
   
13-204   Same; petition
   
13-205   Same; condemnation, reconstruction
   
13-206   Notice; publication
   
13-207   Right of abutting owner
   
13-208   Repairs by owner or city
   
13-209   Performance, statutory bond
   
13-210   Classification
   
13-211   Obstructing sidewalks; exceptions
   
13-212   Awnings
§ 13-201 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, reconstruct or repair any sidewalk within
the city until the plans first have been approved by the governing body and a
permit issued for such work by the City Clerk.
§ 13-202 SIDEWALK GRADE.
   Hereafter all sidewalks constructed or reconstructed in the city shall be
constructed on the established grade. When the governing body shall order a
sidewalk constructed as hereafter provided, the city shall pay the cost of
bringing the street to grade for the sidewalk. Where no grade has been
established, the owner of abutting property may construct a sidewalk on the
natural grade. If the grade has been established, the City Clerk shall furnish
the property owner with the official grade by reference to a stated distance
above or below the street grade.
(K.S.A. 12-1801, 12-1807)
§ 13-203 SAME; SPECIFICATIONS.
   Hereafter all sidewalks shall be of single-course construction and shall be
constructed and laid in accordance with standard plans and specifications
hereby adopted by reference and filed in the office of the City Clerk as
provided by K.S.A. 12-1802. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to construct, reconstruct or repair any sidewalk except as provided
by this article.
§ 13-204 SAME; PETITION.
   When a petition signed by no fewer than ten citizens owning real estate in
the city requesting construction of a sidewalk is filed with the City Clerk,
the governing body may in its discretion, by a resolution, order such sidewalk
constructed as herein provided.
(K.S.A. 12-1803)
§ 13-205 SAME; CONDEMNATION, RECONSTRUCTION.
   When any sidewalk, in the opinion of the governing body, become inadequate
or unsafe for travel thereon, the governing body may adopt a resolution
condemning such walk and providing for the construction of a new walk in the
place of the walk condemned.
(K.S.A. 12-1804)
§ 13-206 NOTICE; PUBLICATION.
   The resolution providing for the construction or reconstruction of a
sidewalk, as the case may be, shall give the owner of the abutting property not
less than 30 days nor more than 60 days after its publication one time in the
official city paper in which to construct or cause to be constructed or
reconstructed the sidewalk at his or her own expense. If the sidewalk is not
constructed by the property owner within the time specified, the governing body
shall cause the work to be done by contract.
(K.S.A. 12-1805)
§ 13-207 RIGHT OF ABUTTING OWNER.
   (a)   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prohibit the owner of
property abutting on a street, who desires to construct or reconstruct a
sidewalk at his or her own expense and in accordance with official plans and
specifications for the purpose and which meet such other requirements as would
have to be met if the sidewalk were constructed or reconstructed by the city,
to construct or reconstruct a sidewalk without any petition or a condemning
resolution by the governing body.
   (b)   If such property owner desires the sidewalk to be constructed and
reconstructed by the city and an assessment levied as provided by law in other
cases, he or she shall file a request with the governing body. The governing
body, in its discretion, may provide for the construction or reconstruction of
the sidewalk requested in the same manner as in other cases where citizens or
taxpayers petition the governing body.
(K.S.A. 12-1806)
§ 13-208 REPAIRS BY OWNER OR CITY.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the owner of the abutting property to keep the
sidewalk in repair, but the city may, after giving five days’ notice to the
owner or his or her agent, if known, of the necessity for making repairs or
without notice if the lot or piece of land is unoccupied, make all necessary
repairs at any time. The same shall be done and the cost thereof assessed
against the lot or piece of land abutting on the sidewalk so repaired as may be
provided by law.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to remove or cause to be
removed, without the approval by the governing body, an existing sidewalk,
without constructing or reconstructing a replacement sidewalk within 30 days
from removal thereof. Construction or reconstruction shall conform to the
standards contained in this article. Failure to provide a replacement sidewalk
within the 30-day period shall authorize the city to construct said replacement
sidewalk, and the costs thereof shall be assessed against the lot or piece of
land adjoining the sidewalk so replaced as may be provided by law.
(K.S.A. 12-1808) (Ord. 1260, passed 5-20-1197)
§ 13-209 PERFORMANCE, STATUTORY BOND.
   In any case where the reconstruction or construction of a sidewalk is
required to be done by contract as provided in §
13-206 of this code of ordinances, the governing body may require the
contractor to give a bond for the faithful performance of the contract and for
the construction of the sidewalk in accordance with the plans and
specifications, ordinances of the city or laws of Kansas, and for all contracts
exceeding $1,000 entered into by the city for any such purpose a statutory lien
bond required by K.S.A. 60-1111 shall be furnished.
§ 13-210 CLASSIFICATION.
   The classification of all sidewalks in the city shall be as follows.
   (a)   Sidewalks in the city shall be known and designated as first, second
and third class.
   (b)   Sidewalks of the first class shall be 15 feet wide. Sidewalks of the
second class shall be eight feet wide. Sidewalks of the third class shall be
five feet wide.
   (c)   First class sidewalks shall be laid from the line of the lot to the
inside of the curb, covering all space between the line of the lot and the
curbing running parallel with the line of the lot.
   (d)   Second class sidewalks shall be laid eight feet in width and shall be
constructed 14 inches from the line of the lot, leaving a space of 14 inches
between the lot line and the sidewalk.
   (e)   Third class sidewalks shall be five feet in width and shall be
constructed 14 inches away from the line of the adjoining lot, leaving a space
of 14 inches between the lot and the sidewalk, except third class sidewalks
may, upon approval of the governing body, be installed adjacent to the curb
line, in which case the sidewalk shall be six feet in width. In addition, the
Building Official may require greater width at intersections to accommodate
handicapped accessible ramps. (All new sidewalks shall be constructed with
handicapped accessible ramps based on current federal handicapped accessible
standards except where it can be shown that a ramp would have no merit. In such
cases this requirement may be waived by the Building Official.)
(Ord. 1207, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 13-211 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to build or
construct any steps or other obstruction, whether temporary or permanent. If
merchandise is placed on a sidewalk or public way, it shall be at the owners
risk and located in a manner that will not impede pedestrians or vehicular
traffic. However, under no circumstances shall such merchandise encroach upon
such sidewalk or public way beyond five feet from the street right-of-way line,
nor be placed beyond the right-of-way frontage of the corresponding business.
Loading or unloading of merchandise may be permitted across sidewalks and
public ways only for the time necessary for such loading or unloading;
provided, that the City Manager may authorize the granting of temporary permits
for limited times only to the construction of improvement thereon: provided
further, that no such permit shall be issued for such purpose until plans for
warning and safeguarding the public during such of sidewalks or public way
shall have been submitted by the owner or his or her contractor and approved by
the City Manager.
   (b)   Public appurtenances may be allowed on a sidewalk or public way and
placed so as not to impede pedestrians or vehicular traffic, provided that
approval is authorized by the City Manager. These may include the following:
      (1)   Flag poles;
      (2)   Trash receptacles;
      (3)   Benches;
      (4)   Planter boxes;
      (5)   Landscaping materials (i.e., trees, shrubs, flowers); and
      (6)   Other items designed to provide comfort or safety to the general
public.
(Ord. 1359, passed 7-17-2001)
§ 13-212 AWNINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, to construct,
install or maintain or cause to be constructed, installed or maintained on
Lincoln Avenue, any awning of wood, sheet iron or other material, which is
supported in whole or in part by posts or other supports set into the sidewalk,
street or parking. Any such awning as hereinbefore described now existing in
the city shall not be repaired or replaced, and when in the opinion of the
governing body the same shall be dangerous, they shall be removed.
ARTICLE 3: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
13-301   Definitions
   
13-302   Creation and establishment of a Tree Board
   
13-303   Duties and responsibilities
   
13-304   Operation
   
13-305   Recommended tree species to be planted
   
13-306   Spacing
   
13-307   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
13-308   Distance from street corners and fire plugs
   
13-309   Utilities
   
13-310   Public tree care
   
13-311   Tree topping
   
13-312   Pruning, corner clearance
   
13-313   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
13-314   Permit for removing, cutting, defacing the trees and shrubs
   
13-315   Removal of stumps from streets
   
13-316   Interference with City Tree Board
   
13-317   Arborists license and insurance
   
13-318   Review by the governing body
   
13-319   Penalty
§ 13-301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks and all areas owned by the city or to which the public has free access as
a park.
   PRIVATE TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on
private property not within the city right-of-way.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines and either side of the street, avenues or within
the city right-of-way.
(Ord. 1037, passed 12-20-1988; Ord. 1810, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 13-302 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF A TREE BOARD.
   There is hereby created and established a Tree Board for the city, which
shall consist of the full-time employees in the City Parks and Cemetery
Department, within the Department of Public Works.
(Ord. 1037, passed 12-20-1988; Ord. 1787, passed 12-6-2022; Ord. 1810, passed
11-19-2024)
§ 13-303 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (a)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate,
cancel and develop and/or update annually and administer a written plan for the
care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of
trees and shrubs in parks along streets and in other public areas.
   (b)   Such plans shall be presented to the City Commission and upon their
acceptance and approval shall constitute the official comprehensive city tree
plan for the city.
(Ord. 1037, passed 12-20-1988; Ord. 1810, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 13-304 OPERATION.
   A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 1037, passed 12-20-1988; Ord. 1810, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 13-305 RECOMMENDED TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The Board shall maintain a list of recommended trees for planting. This list
shall be available to residents of the city upon request to aid in the
selection of trees for private properties. The list of recommended trees shall
be updated as necessary. The City Clerk shall maintain the tree list on file in
the city office.
(Ord. 1037, passed 12-20-1988; Ord. 1810, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 13-306 SPACING.
   Planting trees is not permitted in the city right-of-way.
(Ord. 1037, passed 12-20-1988; Ord. 1810, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 13-307 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   Trees may be planted on private property outside of the city right-of-way.
(Ord. 1037, passed 12-20-1988; Ord. 1810, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 13-308 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIRE PLUGS.
   No trees shall be planted closer than 35 feet of any street corner, measured
from the point of the nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. No street trees
shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fire hydrant.
(Ord. 1037, passed 12-20-1988; Ord. 1810, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 13-309 UTILITIES.
   (a)   No trees other than those species specified as small trees in §
13-305 may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility
wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer
line, transmission line or other utility.
   (b)   By and with the consent of the owner of any tree involved, the City
Manager may authorize the reasonable and necessary trimming or cutting of any
tree or tree limbs which interfere with or constitute a hazard to the city's
electrical power lines regardless of whether such tree grows along a street,
sidewalk or alley or upon public or private grounds. If the property owner
refuses to give such consent, the City Manager is hereby authorized to refuse
electrical service to the property affected.
   (c)   If any utility company authorized by the city finds it necessary to
cut or trim any tree which is interfering with or creating a hazard to its
lines, it may, with the permission of the abutting lot owner or his or her
agent cut or trim the offending tree as necessary to eliminate the interference
or hazard. If permission is not granted, the City Manager shall have the
authority to determine the mode, manner and extent of the cutting and trimming
necessary and the decision shall be final.
(Ord. 1037, passed 12-20-1988; Ord. 1810, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 13-310 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants, shrubs and tree stumps, within the line of all streets, alleys,
avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, to ensure public safety or to
preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The tree
board may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part thereof
which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious
to the sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, public safety, or
other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or
other pest. The abutting property owners shall have the right to perform normal
tree care on all street trees.
(Ord. 1090, passed 12-4-1990; Ord. 1810, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 13-311 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or city
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than two
and one-half inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions, where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted
from this article at the determination of the Tree Board.
(Ord. 1037, passed 12-20-1988; Ord. 1810, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 13-312 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
   (a)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-or-way within
the city shall prune the branches so that the branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of 14 feet above the surface of the street
and eight feet of the sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased or
dangerous trees or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to safety
or the public. The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on
private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the
street from a streetlight or interferes with the visibility of any traffic
control device or sign.
   (b)   On corner lots in residential districts no shrubbery or planting shall
be allowed to grow in such a manner as to obstruct vision between a height of
two and one-half and 14 feet above the centerline grade of the intersecting
streets.
(Ord. 1037, passed 12-20-1988; Ord. 1810, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 13-313 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (a)   (1)   Whenever any competent city authority or competent state or
federal authority shall file with the Tree Board, a statement in writing based
upon a laboratory test or other supporting evidence that trees or tree
materials or shrubs located upon private property within the city are infected
or infested with or harbor any tree or plant disease or insect or larvae, the
uncontrolled presence of which may constitute a hazard to or result in the
damage or extinction of other trees or shrubs in the community, describing the
same and where located.
      (2)   The Tree Board shall issue a notice in writing requiring the owner
or agent of the owner of the premises to treat or to remove any such designated
tree, tree material or shrub within a time specified in the notice.
   (b)   Notice shall be served by a police officer or code enforcement by
delivering a copy thereof to the owner, and the person in possession of such
property, or if the same be unoccupied or the owner a nonresident of the city,
then the City Clerk shall notify the owner by mailing a notice by certified
mail to his or her last known address.
   (c)   If the owner or agent fails to comply with the requirements of the
notice within the 60-day time specified in the notice, then the Tree Board
shall proceed to have the designated tree, tree material or shrub treated or
removed and report the cost thereof to the City Clerk. In lieu of city
employees performing any such work, the governing body may contract with any
competent person, company or corporation for the performance of such work.
   (d)   The City Clerk shall, at the time of certifying other city taxes to
the County Clerk, certify the unpaid costs for treatment or removal performed
under the authority of this article and the County Clerk shall extend the same
on the tax roll of the county against the lot or parcel of ground. The cost of
such work shall be paid from the general fund or other proper funds of the
city, and such fund shall be reimbursed when payment is received or when such
assessments are collected and received by the city. (Ord. 1037, passed 12-20-
1988; Ord. 1810, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 13-314 PERMIT FOR REMOVING, CUTTING, DEFACING THE TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for a person without a written permit from the
city to prune, remove, destroy, cut, girdle, paint, whitewash or deface any
tree or shrub in any part of the streets, alleys, avenues or ways, or to injure
any of the said trees and shrubs by root cutting or exposure, or by placing oil
or any injurious chemical or substance on the ground around such tree or shrub,
or by tying animals to, or piling building materials about, or by attaching
signs, supports, wires or other devices to any of said trees or shrubs.
   (b)   The permit shall state specifically the work to be done under it and
shall be void after 30 days from the date thereof. A permit is to be obtained
at the City Clerk's office. There will be no fee for the permit.
(Ord. 1037, passed 12-20-1988; Ord. 1810, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 13-315 REMOVAL OF STUMPS FROM STREETS.
   Any tree, tree stump, shrub or vine that shall be removed from any of the
streets, avenues, alley or public ways shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump removed shall not project above the
surface of the ground.
(Ord. 1037, passed 12-20-1988; Ord. 1810, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 13-316 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
Tree Board, while engaging in and about the planting, cultivating, mulching,
pruning, spraying or removing of any street trees, park trees, or trees on
private grounds, as authorized in this article.
(Ord. 1037, passed 12-20-1988; Ord. 1810, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 13-317 ARBORISTS LICENSE AND INSURANCE.
   (a)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the
business or occupation of pruning, treating or removing trees within the city
without first applying for and procuring a license. Qualifications for the
license and operating procedures shall be formally adopted by the Tree Board.
Revocation of the license may be made by the Tree Board upon a hearing before
the Tree Board.
      (2)   The license fees shall be $50 for the remaining portion of the
calendar year for which application is made, to be paid in advance; provided,
however, that no license shall be required for any city employee doing such
work in the pursuit of their public service endeavors.
      (3)   Applicants shall procure and maintain a liability insurance policy
in the amount of $1,000,000 covering bodily injury and property damage on a
combined single limit basis and indemnifying the city or any person injured or
damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as herein described. Such
policies of insurance shall be issued by an insurance company authorized to do
business in the State of Kansas.
      (4)   An arborist may qualify as to the insurance requirements by filing
a certificate with the city executed by the resident agent of such company,
stating that the required policy of insurance has been issued by such company
for the purpose required by this article and that such insurer will not cancel
the policy except upon giving 30 days of notice in writing to the city. The
arborist license is to be purchased at the City Clerk's office.
   (b)   The city burn site is designated for residential use and city licensed
arborists only.
(Ord. 1037, passed 12-20-1988; Ord. 1657, passed 11-3-2015; Ord. 1765, passed
10-19-2021; Ord. 1810, passed 11-19-2024; Ord. 1812, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 13-318 REVIEW BY THE GOVERNING BODY.
   Any person may appeal against any ruling or order of any Tree Board to the
governing body who may hear the matter and make a final decision thereon.
(Ord. 1037, passed 12-20-1988; Ord. 1810, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 13-319 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty
of a code violation and upon conviction or a plea of guilty may be fined in any
sum less than $500 or by imprisonment for not more than six months or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 1037, passed 12-20-1988; Ord. 1810, passed 11-19-2024)
ARTICLE 4: SNOW AND ICE
Section
   
13-401   Snow and ice to be removed
   
13-402   Same: exception; alternate remedy
   
13-403   Same; penalty
   
13-404   Removal may be made by city
   
13-405   Costs on tax rolls
§ 13-401 SNOW AND ICE TO BE REMOVED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or the occupant of any lots
abutting upon any sidewalks to fail to cause to be removed from such sidewalks
all snow and ice within 12 hours from the time that the snow fall or ice storm
ceases. If the snow falls or ice accumulates upon the sidewalks in the
nighttime, removal of same must be made within 12 hours after sunrise on the
following day.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place snow removed from private
property upon any public street, alley or sidewalk.
§ 13-402 SAME: EXCEPTION; ALTERNATE REMEDY.
   Where there shall be ice or compacted snow on any such sidewalk of such a
character as to make it practically impossible to remove the same, the
sprinkling of ashes, sand or other noncorrosive chemicals on the accumulation
of ice or snow in such a manner as to make such sidewalk reasonably safe for
pedestrian travel shall be deemed a sufficient compliance with the provisions
of this article until the ice or snow can be removed.
§ 13-403 SAME; PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of §
13-401 shall, upon conviction, be fined $25.
§ 13-404 REMOVAL MAY BE MADE BY CITY.
   If any owner or occupant of any lot or lots shall refuse or neglect to clean
or remove from the sidewalk abutting the lot or lots all snow and ice within
the time specified, the city may cause such snow and ice to be removed from
sidewalks and the cost thereof shall be assessed against such abutting lot or
lots, and the City Clerk shall certify the same to the County Clerk for
collection as provided by law.
§ 13-405 COSTS ON TAX ROLLS.
   The City Clerk shall, at the time of certifying other city taxes to the
County Clerk, certify the unpaid costs for removal of snow or ice performed
under the authority of §
13-404 and the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax roll of the county
against the lot or parcel of ground. The cost of such work shall be paid from
the General Fund or other proper fund of the city, and such fund shall be
reimbursed when payments therefor are received or when such assessments are
collected and received by the city.
CHAPTER XIV: TRAFFIC
   Article
      
1.   STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE
      
2.   LOCAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
3.   PARKING
      
4.   RESERVED
      
5.   IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
      
6.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
ARTICLE 1: STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE
Section
   
14-101   Incorporating standard traffic ordinance
   
14-102   Same; traffic infractions and traffic offenses
   
14-103   Penalty for scheduled fines
   
14-104   Same; speed limits
   
14-105   Special purpose vehicles; definitions
   
14-106   Same; special purpose vehicle operation on city streets; special
conditions and restrictions on operation
   
14-107   Same; valid driver’s license required; penalty; duties and
responsibilities
   
14-108   Same; insurance required; penalty
   
14-109   Same; registration and license; fee; application; inspection
   
14-110   Same; penalty
§ 14-101 INCORPORATING STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE.
   (a)   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of
regulating traffic within the corporate limits of the City of Wamego, Kansas,
that certain standard traffic ordinance known as the “2024 Standard Traffic
Ordinance for Kansas Cities, 51st Edition,” prepared and published in book form
by the League of Kansas Municipalities, Topeka, Kansas, save and except such
articles, sections, parts or portions as are hereafter omitted, deleted,
modified or changed. No fewer than three copies of said Standard Traffic
Ordinance shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as Adopted by Ordinance No.
1803,” with all sections or portions thereof intended to be omitted or changed
clearly marked to show any such omission or change, with a copy of Ordinance
No. 1803 attached, and filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and
available to the public at all reasonable hours. The Police Department,
Municipal Judge and all administrative departments of the city charged with
enforcement of the ordinance shall be supplied, at the cost of the city, such
number of official copies of such Standard Traffic Ordinance similarly marked,
as may be deemed expedient.
   (b)   Section 51 of said “2022 Standard Traffic Ordinance for Kansas Cities,
49th Edition” is hereby amended to read as follows:
Sec. 51. U Turns and J Turns; Where Prohibited.
   U-Turns: The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to
proceed in the opposite direction upon any street in a business district, when
posted, nor upon any other street unless such movement can be made in safety
without interfering with other traffic. (K.S.A. 8-1546)
Ref.: Secs. 48, 50.
   J-Turns: It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to cross the
centerline of any street in the business district and angle park on the
opposite side of the street. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle
to back from an angle parking in such a fashion as to proceed forward on the
opposite side of the street from such angle parking.
   (c)   Section 182.1 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance adopted and
incorporated by Ord. 1664 is amended to read as follows:
Sec. 182.1 Seat Belts.
   (a)   Except as provided in subsection (b):
      (1)   Each occupant of either a passenger car manufactured with safety
belts in compliance with federal motor vehicle safety standard no. 208 or an
autocycle, who is 18 years of age or older, shall have a safety belt properly
fastened about such person’s body at all times when the passenger car is in
motion; and
      (2)   Each occupant of either a passenger car manufactured with safety
belts in compliance with federal motor vehicle safety standard no. 208 or an
autocycle, who is at least 14 years of age but less than 18 years of age, shall
have a safety belt properly fastened about such person’s body at all times when
the passenger car is in motion.
   (b)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   An occupant of a passenger car who possesses a written statement
from a licensed physician that such person is unable for medical reasons to
wear a safety belt system;
      (2)   Carriers of United States mail while actually engaged in delivery
and collection of mail along their specified routs; or
      (3)   Newspaper delivery persons while actually engaged in delivery of
newspapers along their specified routes.
   (c)   Law enforcement officers shall not stop drivers for violations of
subsection (a)(1) by a back seat occupant in the absence of another violation
of law. A citation for violation of subsection (a)(1) by a back seat occupant
shall not be issued without citing the violation that initially caused the
officer to effect the enforcement stop.
   (d)   (1)   Persons violating subsection (a)(1) shall be fined $30 and no
court costs; and
      (2)   Persons violating subsection (a)(2) shall be fined $60 and no court
costs.
   (e)   As used in this section, PASSENGER CAR means a motor vehicle,
manufactured or assembled after January 1,1968, or a motor vehicle manufactured
or assembled prior to 1968 which was manufactured or assembled with safety
belts, with motive power designed for carrying 10 passengers or fewer,
including vans, but does not include a motorcycle or a motor-driven cycle.
(K.S.A. 8-2502-8-2504) (Ord. 1575, passed 8-16-2011; Ord. 1681, passed 7-5-
2017; Ord. 1685, passed 10-3-2017; Ord. 1700, passed 10-16-2018; Ord. 1762,
passed 10-19-2021; Ord. 1777, passed 10-4-2022; Ord. 1793, passed 9-19-2023;
Ord. 1803, passed 7-16-2024)
§ 14-102 SAME; TRAFFIC INFRACTIONS AND TRAFFIC OFFENSES.
   (a)   An ordinance traffic infraction is a violation of any section of this
article that prescribes or requires the same behavior as that prescribed or
required by a statutory provision that is classified as a traffic infraction in
K.S.A. 8-2118.
   (b)   All traffic violations which are included within this article, and
which are not ordinance traffic violations, as defined in division (a) above,
shall be considered traffic offenses.
(Ord. 1513, passed 8-21-2007)
§ 14-103 PENALTY FOR SCHEDULED FINES.
   The fine for violation of an ordinance traffic infraction or any other
traffic offense for which the Municipal Judge establishes a fine in a fine
schedule shall not be less than $1 nor more than $1,500.
(Ord. 1513, passed 8-21-2007)
§ 14-104 SAME; SPEED LIMITS.
   (a)   Section 33(a), Maximum Speed Limits, of the Standard Traffic Ordinance
adopted in §
14-101 above is hereby amended to designate a maximum speed limit of 20 mph for
all streets within the corporate limits fo the city, unless noted under
divisions (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this section, or unless posted otherwise.
   (b)   The speed limit shall be 25 mph on the following streets within the
corporate limits of the city:
      (1)   Eighth Street from Hillcrest Road to Poplar Street and from Lincoln
Avenue to Balderson Boulevard.
      (2)   Walnut Street from Fourth Street to Highway 24.
   (c)   The speed limit shall be 30 mph on the following streets within the
corporate limits of the city:
      (1)   Lincoln Avenue from the south city limits center of Kansas River,
to a point 145 feet north of the centerline of Valley Street.
      (2)   Lincoln Avenue from a point 310 feet north of the centerline of
Sixth Street to the north city limits (north line of Highway 24), except the
speed limit shall be 20 mph at the times set out in Ord. 941.
      (3)   Fourth Street from Ash Street to the east city limits.
      (4)   Valley Street from Lincoln Avenue to the east city limits.
      (5)   Kaw Valley Road from Highway 24 to Say Road.
      (6)   Balderson Boulevard from Fourth Street to Highway 24.
      (7)   Columbian from Highway 24 to the north city limits.
   (d)   The speed limit shall be 35 mph on Columbian Road from Fourth Street
to Highway 24.
   (e)   The speed limit shall be ten mph for all streets and parking areas
within the City of Wamego parks and cemeteries.
(Ord. 1513, passed 8-21-2007; Ord. 1636, passed 9-16-2004; Ord. 1736, passed 9-
15-2020; Ord. 1800, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 14-105 SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
14-105 through
14-110, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A motor vehicle that has not less than three wheels in contact
with the ground, an unladen weight of not more than 1,800 pounds, is designed
to be operated at not more than 25 mph and is designed to carry not more than
four persons, including the driver.
   MICRO-UTILITY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle which is not less than 48 inches in
width, has an overall length, including the bumper, of not more than 160
inches, has an unladen weight, including fuel and fluids, of more than 1,500
pounds, can exceed 40 mph as originally manufactured and is manufactured with a
metal cab. MICRO-UTILITY TRUCK does not include a work-site utility vehicle.
   SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLE. Golf cart, micro-utility truck and work-site
utility vehicle, either individually or collectively.
   WORK-SITE UTILITY VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is not less than 48
inches in width, has an overall length, including the bumper, of not more than
135 inches, has an unladen weight, including fuel and fluids, of more than 800
pounds and is equipped with four or more low pressure tires, a steering wheel
and bench or bucket type seating allowing at least two people to sit side-by-
side, and may be equipped with a bed or cargo box for hauling materials. WORK-
SITE UTILITY VEHICLE does not include a micro-utility truck. Commonly referred
to as a UTV.
(Ord. 1547, passed 9-1-2009; Ord. 1806, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 14-106 SAME; SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLE OPERATION ON CITY STREETS; SPECIAL
CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a golf cart:
   (a)   On any interstate highway, federal highway or state highway;
   (b)   On any public highways, streets, roads and alleys within the corporate
limits of the city unless authorized by such city; or
   (c)   On any street or highway with a posted speed limit greater than 30
mph. However, the provisions of this division shall not prohibit a golf cart
from crossing a federal or state highway with a posted speed limit greater than
30 mph.
   (d)   Golf carts shall not be operated on any public highway, street, road
or alley between sunset and sunrise.
(Ord. 1547, passed 9-1-2009; Ord. 1806, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 14-107 SAME; VALID DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED; PENALTY; DUTIES AND
RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (a)   No person shall operate a special purpose vehicle on any interstate
highway, federal highway or state highway, street, road or alley within the
corporate limits of the city unless authorized by such city.
   (b)   Any operator of such special purpose vehicle must have a valid
driver's license.
   (c)   Every person operating a work-site utility vehicle on the public
highways, streets, roads and alleys of the city shall be subject to all the
duties applicable to a driver of a vehicle imposed by law.
(Ord. 1547, passed 9-1-2009; Ord. 1806, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 14-108 SAME; INSURANCE REQUIRED; PENALTY.
   (a)   Every owner of a special purpose vehicle shall provide liability
coverage in accordance with city and state requirements.
   (b)   All provisions of Section 200 of the 2022 Standard Traffic Ordinance,
and amendments thereto, including penalty provisions, shall be applicable to
all owners and operators of special purpose vehicles.
(Ord. 1547, passed 9-1-2009; Ord. 1777, passed 10-4-2022; Ord. 1806, passed 10-
15-2024)
§ 14-109 SAME; REGISTRATION AND LICENSE; FEE; APPLICATION; INSPECTION.
   Before operating any special purpose utility vehicle on any public highway,
street, road or alley within the corporate limits of the city, the vehicle
shall be registered with the city office and display a valid registration decal
affixed and displayed in such a manner as to be clearly visible from the rear
of the vehicle. The application shall be made upon forms provided by the city
and each application shall contain the name of the owner, the owner's residence
address, or bona fide place of business, a brief description of the vehicle to
be registered (including make, model and serial number, if applicable). Proof
of insurance, as required under §
14-110 shall be furnished at the time of application for registration. The
annual registration fee for a special purpose vehicle shall be $25. The full
amount of the license fee shall be required regardless of the time of year that
the application is made. The license issued hereunder is not transferable.
(Ord. 1547, passed 9-1-2009; Ord. 1806, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 14-110 SAME; PENALTY.
   Unless specifically provided for herein, a violation of this article shall
be deemed an ordinance traffic infraction.
(Ord. 1547, passed 9-1-2009; Ord. 1777, passed 10-4-2022; Ord. 1806, passed 10-
15-2024)
ARTICLE 2: LOCAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
14-201   Traffic control devices and markings
   
14-202   Violations
   
14-203   Careless driving
   
14-204   One-way streets
   
14-205   School zones; established
   
14-206   Same; speed limits
   
14-207   Same; times and days students normally en route
   
14-208   Promise to appear
   
14-209   Permit: operation of traction engines, tractors
   
14-210   Loading zones
   
14-211   Same; application
   
14-212   Same; unlawful use
   
14-213   Bicycles, skateboards, coasters, roller skates or similar devices
   
14-214   Same; penalty
   
14-215   Main trafficway
§ 14-201 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES AND MARKINGS.
   The Standard Traffic Ordinance as adopted is hereby modified by adding
thereto the following:
   The governing body may, by resolution, establish and fix the location of
such traffic control devices as may be deemed necessary to guide and warn
traffic under the provisions of this chapter, other traffic ordinances and the
state laws. The city shall place and maintain such traffic control signs,
signals and devices when and as may be required by the authority of the
governing body to make effective the provisions of this chapter and other
ordinances for the regulation of traffic. Any official traffic control device
placed pursuant to this section shall be marked and labeled on a map of the
City of Wamego for the purpose of displaying all such traffic control devices
and shall be filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available
to the public at all reasonable hours of business.
§ 14-202 VIOLATIONS.
   Unless otherwise specified, violations of the provisions of this article
shall be punishable as set out in Article 20 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance
incorporated in §
14-101 of this chapter.
§ 14-203 CARELESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a vehicle upon a
highway, street or alley in a careless or heedless or an inattentive manner, or
without due caution and circumspection, or in any manner not constituting
reckless driving but so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or
property.
(Ord. 804, passed 8-15-1977)
§ 14-204 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Vehicular traffic shall proceed only in a westerly direction upon the
following designated one-way street: that street extending from Lincoln Avenue
westerly to the first alley west of Lincoln Avenue and located between Fourth
Street and Fifth Street and more particularly described as being bounded on the
north by Lot 538 and on the south by Lots 539 through 544, all in the original
townsite of the City of Wamego.
(Ord. 858, passed 5-8-1980)
§ 14-205 SCHOOL ZONES; ESTABLISHED.
   There are hereby established the following school zones within the city:
   (a)   Lincoln Avenue, from a point 150 feet north of the centerline of 6th
Street, north to a point 250 feet north of the centerline of 8th Street;
   (b)   Elm Street, from 8th Street south to a point 180 feet south of the
centerline of 7th Street;
   (c)   Poplar Street, from 10th Street south to a point 180 feet south of the
centerline of 7th Street;
   (d)   7th Street, from Lincoln Avenue west to the alley between Poplar
Street and Vine Street;
   (e)   8th Street, from Lincoln Avenue west to the alley between Poplar
Street and Vine Street;
   (f)   4th Street, from Marsha Lane easterly to Sycamore Drive;
   (g)   6th Street Road, from a point 130 feet east of the centerline of J.C.
Rogers Drive east to Parkview Drive;
   (h)   Kaw Valley Road, from a point 210 feet north of the centerline of 14th
Street north to Say Road; and
   (i)   Say Road, from a point 1,240 feet east of the centerline of Columbian
Road east to Lilac Lane.
(Ord. 941, passed 2-21-1984; Ord. 1761, passed 10-5-2021)
§ 14-206 SAME; SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle in excess of 20 mph within a
school zone during any times and days when students are normally en route to or
from school.
(Ord. 941, passed 2-21-1984)
§ 14-207 SAME; TIMES AND DAYS STUDENTS NORMALLY EN ROUTE.
   (a)   The times that students are normally en route to or from school are
from: 7:00 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.
   (b)   The days that students are normally en route to or from school are
Monday through Friday of each week when school is in session.
(Ord. 941, passed 2-21-1984; Ord. 1761, passed 10-5-2021)
§ 14-208 PROMISE TO APPEAR.
   It is unlawful for any person to violate his or her promise to appear before
the Municipal Court, regardless of the disposition of the charge for which the
citation was issued.
(Ord. 758, passed 1-7-1975)
§ 14-209 PERMIT: OPERATION OF TRACTION ENGINES, TRACTORS.
   The governing body may, in its discretion, issue special permits authorizing
the operation upon a highway or street of traction engines or tractors having
movable tracks with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable
tracks or farm tracts or other farm machinery, the operation of which upon a
street or highway would otherwise be prohibited under this article.
§ 14-210 LOADING ZONES.
   The governing body, may, by resolution, designate curb areas as loading
zones either for vehicle passengers or freight for a period of one year and
renewable annually. Such zones shall be marked by appropriate signs in
accordance with the determination of the governing body.
§ 14-211 SAME; APPLICATION.
   (a)   The application for the establishment of loading zones shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Application shall be made in writing to the Chief of Police;
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall cause such application to be investigated
and determine the necessity for the proposed loading zone as set forth in the
application;
      (3)   The Chief of Police shall immediately thereafter report his or her
findings to the governing body in writing together with his or her
recommendation as to the disposition of the application; and
      (4)   After recommended disposition is made by the Chief of Police, the
entire file shall be submitted to the governing body who will either approve or
reject the recommendation.
   (b)   If the application is favorably acted upon, the City Clerk shall
notify the Chief of Police who will cause the loading zone to be marked with
appropriate signs or markings showing that such designated area is a loading
zone.
   (c)   The privilege granted under this section may be revoked at any time by
seven days’ written notice to the applicant. No rights granted hereunder are
transferable.
(Ord. 686, passed 7-6-1971)
§ 14-212 SAME; UNLAWFUL USE.
   No person or driver shall stop or park in any loading zone, when the same
has been designated, established or marked as such for a period of time longer
than is necessary for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers or
merchandise.
§ 14-213 BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES OR SIMILAR DEVICES.
   No person shall ride any bicycle, skateboard, coaster, roller skates or
similar devices, upon either C-1: Retail Business District, or C-2: General
Commercial District, or upon any public parking lot owned and operated by a
governmental unit in the city.
(Ord. 1128, passed 9-1-1992)
§ 14-214 SAME; PENALTY.
   (a)   A law enforcement officer detaining a person for violation of §
14-213 may impound the device ridden. If the person is 18 years of age or
older, the device shall be released by the City Police Department if the
violator appears at said Department and provides self-identification. Persons
under 18 years of age, must appear at the City Police Department with a parent
or guardian to obtain release of the device. If no parent or guardian resides
in the city, the device may be released if its owner provides a letter from a
parent or guardian requesting that it be released.
   (b)   Violation of §
14-213 is a municipal offense punishable by a fine of up to $100.
(Ord. 1128, passed 9-1-1992)
§ 14-215 MAIN TRAFFICWAY.
   (a)   It is hereby authorized, ordered and directed, under the authority of
K.S.A. 12-685 et seq., that Poplar Street, located within the limits of the
city, is hereby designated and established as a main trafficway.
   (b)   It is hereby authorized, ordered and directed, under the authority of
K.S.A. 12-685 et seq., that East Valley Street, Balderson Boulevard, Military
Trail Road and U.S. Highway 24 located within the limits of the city are
designated and established as main trafficways.
   (c)   It is hereby authorized, ordered and directed, under the authority of
K.S.A. 12-685 et seq., that 4th Street and Old U.S. Highway 24, and 8th Street
located within the limits of the city are designated and established as main
trafficways.
   (d)   It is hereby authorized, ordered and directed, under the authority of
K.S.A. 12-685 et seq., that Walnut Street, Chestnut Street, Spruce Street, Vine
Street and Plum Street located within the city are designated and established
as trafficway connections, between 8th Street and 4th Street, or Old U.S.
Highway 24.
(Ord. 1504, passed 5-15-2007; Ord. 1571, passed 4-19-2011; Ord. 1731, passed 6-
16-2020; Ord. 1747, passed - -)
ARTICLE 3: PARKING
Section
   
14-301   Large trucks; overnight parking prohibited
   
14-302   Same; parking, stopping, prohibited
   
14-303   Street cleaning; parking prohibited
   
14-304   Parking prohibited
   
14-305   Angle parking
§ 14-301 LARGE TRUCKS; OVERNIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or cause to be parked any truck,
(other than a pickup truck), truck tractor, trailer or semi-trailer owned or
operated under the physical control of such person, on any highway or street in
the city, for a period longer than 30 minutes of any day.
(Ord. 1813, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 14-302 SAME; PARKING, STOPPING, PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park any truck larger than those commonly known as pickup
and panel trucks on Lincoln Avenue between Fourth Street and Seventh Street at
any time; nor shall any person stop any such truck on Lincoln Avenue except
temporarily for loading or unloading, and then only in the event that access to
the premises where such loading or unloading is to be done is not available at
the rear of the premises.
§ 14-303 STREET CLEANING; PARKING PROHIBITED.
   In order to have access to clean the street and remove snow when necessary,
it is unlawful to park any motor vehicle on either side of Lincoln Avenue, from
the south city limits to the intersection on the south line of Seventh Street,
between the hours of 12:30 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. Sunday through Saturday of each
and every week.
(Ord. 943, passed 3-20-1984)
§ 14-304 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   It is unlawful to park any motor vehicle along the south side of
Seventh Street, from Lincoln Avenue westerly to the first alley west of Lincoln
Avenue at all times except from midnight Saturday night to midnight Sunday
night.
   (b)   Parking is prohibited along the east side of Balderson Boulevard, in
the City of Wamego, Kansas, from Military Trail Road (Fourth Street) to Eighth
Street, in order to enhance visibility for motorists, including drivers of
trucks entering and exiting the Caterpillar Work Tools plant.
(Ord. 851, passed 1-8-1980; Ord. 1535, passed 1-6-2009)
§ 14-305 ANGLE PARKING.
   Angle parking at the angle indicated on the curb, sidewalk or pavement or by
signs is hereby permitted on the following streets:
   (a)   Lincoln Avenue from Seventh Street to Valley Street; and
   (b)   Lincoln Avenue, being a state highway connection link; the State
Highway Commission has determined by resolution or order entered in its minutes
that the roadway is of sufficient width to permit angle parking without
interfering with the free movement of traffic.
ARTICLE 4: RESERVED
 
ARTICLE 5: IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
14-501   Definitions
   
14-502   Impounding vehicles
   
14-503   Same
   
14-504   Notice of impoundment; storage of vehicle
   
14-505   Impoundment after request to leave motor vehicle
   
14-506   Release of motor vehicle from impoundment
   
14-507   Hearing
   
14-508   Charges constitute a lien
   
14-509   Satisfaction of lien; notice of public sale
   
14-510   Redemption
   
14-511   Sale proceeds
   
14-512   Statutory procedures
   
14-513   Implementation of article
   
14-514   Reimbursement for discharged liens
§ 14-501 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel. Where the word HIGHWAY or the word STREET is used in this
article, it means street, avenue, boulevard, thoroughfare, alley and other
public way for vehicular travel by whatever name, unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
   OWNER or OCCUPANT. A party having fee simple title in the real property, or
a party having a leasehold interest in the real property, or a party who is the
beneficiary of a private easement for the purpose of egress or ingress to or
from real property.
§ 14-502 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   The Police Department may cause to be impounded:
   (a)   Any motor vehicle unlawfully parked on a highway in violation of any
provision of a city ordinance which prohibits the parking of vehicles at the
place where or time when the impounded motor vehicle is found;
   (b)   Any motor vehicle that has been abandoned and left on a highway or
other property open to use by the public for a period in excess of 48 hours
pursuant to K.S.A. 8-1102;
   (c)   Any motor vehicle which:
      (1)   Is subject to removal pursuant to K.S.A. 8-1570 or 8-1102;
      (2)   Is subject to seizure and forfeiture under the laws of the state;
or
      (3)   Is subject to being held for use as evidence in a criminal trial.
   (d)   Any motor vehicle, the continued presence of which, because of the
physical location or condition of the motor vehicle, poses a danger to the
public safety or to the motor vehicle; and
   (e)   Any motor vehicle which has been abandoned or parked on any real
property, other than public property or property open to use by the public, may
be moved and disposed of in accordance with the terms of this article by the
Police Department upon the request of the owner or occupant of such real
property. The real property referred to herein shall not be owned or leased by
the person who abandons or parks said vehicle or by the owner or lessee of such
vehicle. The city, or any person, partnership, corporation or their agent
conducting a business enterprise for the purpose of towing vehicles which
removes such vehicle from the real property at the request of the Police
Department shall have a possessory lien on such vehicle for the cost incurred
in removing, towing and storing such vehicle. For purposes of this article,
common areas shall be construed not to mean public property or property open to
the public.
§ 14-503 SAME.
   The Police Department may authorize storage of such impounded motor vehicles
at any location, public or private, which is zoned for the storage of motor
vehicles.
§ 14-504 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT; STORAGE OF VEHICLE.
   (a)   When owner present. When the Police Department intends to impound a
motor vehicle pursuant to §
14-502 and the owner of the motor vehicle is then present, the Police
Department shall before the motor vehicle is removed, provide the owner with a
notice, in the form prescribed by the Police Department that the motor vehicle
is being impounded, that towing and storage charges will be assessed against
the impounded motor vehicle, that the owner may claim and regain possession of
the impounded motor vehicle at the location to which it is being removed for
storage without prepayment of towing and storage charges and that the owner may
request a hearing as to the propriety of the impoundment and as to the amount
of and the owner’s liability for the towing and storage charges.
      (1)   The notice shall also state the location where the impounded motor
vehicle will be stored and the place where the owner may make his or her
request for the hearing. The notice shall also state, in prominent language,
that failure by the owner to request a hearing within five days after receipt
of the notice may act as a waiver of his or her right to a hearing and that
this may result in the placing of a lien against the motor vehicle for the
towing and storage charges without further notice to the owner; and that the
motor vehicle be sold at public auction to the highest bidder for cash after 15
days from the date of the mailing of the notice.
      (2)   The owner of the impounded motor vehicle shall sign the notice as
an acknowledgment that he or she has received a copy of the notice and a copy
of the notice shall be provided to the owner.
   (b)   When owner not present.
      (1)   When the Police Department impounds and remove a motor vehicle
pursuant to §
14-502(a) and the owner of the motor vehicle is not present at the time of the
impoundment, the Police Department shall, if such motor vehicle has displayed
thereon a registration plate issued by the Division of Vehicles and has been
registered with said Division, mail a notice by certified mail to the
registered owner thereof, addressed to the address as shown on the certificate
of registration, and to the lienholder, if any, of record in the county in
which the title shows the owner resides, if registered in this state. The
notice shall be in the form prescribed by the Police Department containing the
same information as required by division (a) above.
      (2)   The Police Department shall use reasonable diligence in determining
the title owner, or if from a non-title state, the registered owner, of the
vehicle, and shall inquire by mail of the office of the Register of Deeds of
the county in which the title shows the owner resides, if registered in this
state, as to whether there are any lienholders of record. If the owner cannot
be served by certified mail at the address on the motor vehicle registration
and there is no other known address of the owner, the owner shall be deemed to
be a resident of the state whose whereabouts are unknown and service shall be
made on the Secretary of State as provided in K.S.A. 8-401.
      (3)   If the owner does not reside in the state, as appears from the
motor vehicle registration and the owner cannot be served by certified mail at
the address on the motor vehicle registration and there is no other known
address of the owner, the owner shall be deemed a nonresident of the state and
service shall be made on the Secretary of State as provided in K.S.A. 8-401.
   (c)   Failure or refusal to sign notice. If any person required by this
section to sign a notice of impoundment willfully fails or refuses to do so, or
if such person cannot be found, the Police Department shall note this fact on
the face of the notice, which shall constitute prima facie evidence of delivery
or service of notice as required by this section.
§ 14-505 IMPOUNDMENT AFTER REQUEST TO LEAVE MOTOR VEHICLE.
   In all cases wherein the owner or operator of a motor vehicle which is on a
public street has requested that the motor vehicle be left unattended at that
location, in lieu of impoundment of the motor vehicle pursuant to §
14-502, the Police Department may honor said request for a period of time not
exceeding 24 hours, after which time the motor vehicle shall either be removed
from the location by the owner or operator or be impounded by the Police
Department pursuant to §
14-504. The Police Department shall be immune from liability for any damage,
loss or destruction of the motor vehicle occasioned by its being left
unattended pursuant to the request of the owner or operator thereof, in lieu of
impoundment. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority
of the Police Department to order the removal of a motor vehicle by its owner
or operator or to impound a motor vehicle pursuant to §
14-504 at any time whenever in his or her judgment the presence of the
unattended motor vehicle constitutes a danger to the public safety.
§ 14-506 RELEASE OF MOTOR VEHICLE FROM IMPOUNDMENT.
   (a)   Generally. Unless the vehicle is impounded pursuant to §
14-502(b) herein, the owner of an impounded motor vehicle may secure the
release of the motor vehicle from impoundment upon requesting such release and
presenting proof of ownership satisfactory to the custodian of the place where
the motor vehicle is stored. If the custodian is satisfied that the person
making the request is the owner or his or her authorized agent, he or she shall
release the motor vehicle to the owner or his or her agent. Nothing in the
preceding sentence shall preclude the owner of the impounded motor vehicle or
his or her agent from paying any towing and storage charges that may be
assessed against the motor vehicle, but neither the Police Department nor the
custodian of the storage space may require payment of any towing or storage
charges as a condition precedent to such release. At the same time as the owner
or his or her agent requests release of the impounded motor vehicle, and if
such request is made with 40 days after the owner receives a copy of the notice
of impoundment, the Police Department shall provide him or her an opportunity
to make a request for a hearing on the propriety of the impoundment and on the
amount and his or her liability for the towing and storage charges occasioned
by the impoundment; provided, that if the owner or his or her agent requests
release of the impounded motor vehicle more than 40 days after the owner
receives a copy of the notice of impoundment, no hearing may be requested on
the impoundment or on the towing and storage charges and the owner shall be
conclusively presumed to have consented to the impoundment and to the amount of
and his or her liability for the towing and storage charges.
   (b)   Security for payment of charges. If the ownership of the impounded
motor vehicle is evidenced by a title certificate issued by the Kansas
Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles, the owner or his or her agent
may secure the release of the motor vehicle from impoundment without the
payment of any towing or storage charges or the deposit of any security for the
payment thereof. If the ownership of the impounded motor vehicle is evidenced
by a foreign title instrument, or if the jurisdiction in which title is
recorded is not evidenced from the document establishing ownership, the owner
or his or her agent, before the custodian of the place where the motor vehicle
is stored authorizes release of the motor vehicle form impoundment, shall
deposit with the custodian cash in the amount of the towing and storage charges
to the date of the request. If the owner or his or her agent refuses to provide
the cash deposit, the custodian shall not authorize release of the impounded
motor vehicle but if the request is timely made, a date shall be set for the
hearing on the impoundment and charges.
§ 14-507 HEARING.
   (a)   (1)   If the owner of an impounded motor vehicle or his or her agent
timely requests the release of the motor vehicle from impoundment and a hearing
on the impoundment and charges, as provided in §
14-506, a date shall be set, not more than five days after the date of request,
for the hearing. The City Attorney shall provide a hearing examiner to conduct
the hearings required by this section.
      (2)   At the hearing, the owner, his or her agent, or his or her attorney
shall be afforded an opportunity to present, by oral testimony or documentary
evidence, his or her objections to:
         (A)   The impoundment of the motor vehicle; and
         (B)   1.   The amount of the towing and storage charges; and
            2.   His or her liability for the payment thereof.
      (3)   If the owner or his or her agent requested the hearing more than
five days but not more than 40 days after the owner received a copy of the
notice of impoundment, the owner, his or her agent or his or her attorney shall
be required at the hearing, as a condition precedent to the presentation of any
objections by the owner, to show good cause for the delay in making the request
more than five days after the owner received a copy of the notice of
impoundment; if good cause cannot be shown, the hearing officer shall dismiss
the hearing and make the finding stated in division (b)(2) below; otherwise,
the hearing examiner shall proceed to hear the owner’s objections.
   (b)   At the conclusion of the hearing on the owner’s objections, the
hearing examiner shall render his or her decision if the hearing examiner:
      (1)   Finds that the impoundment was improper, he or she shall:
         (A)   Find that the owner is not liable for any towing or storage
charges occasioned by the impoundment; and
         (B)   Determine whether and to what extent the city shall be the
expense of the towing and storage charges.
      (2)   Finds that the impoundment was proper, he or she shall establish:
         (A)   The amount of the towing and storage charges to be assessed
against the impounded motor vehicle; and
         (B)   The extent of the liability of the owner for payment of the
towing and storage charges so established. The decision of the hearing examiner
shall be final, and a copy of the decision shall be furnished to the owner of
the impounded motor vehicle, to the custodian of the place where the motor
vehicle is stored and to the city attorney.
      (3)   In the event that the impoundment was pursuant to K.S.A. 8-1102(6),
the owner or occupant of the real property upon which the abandoned vehicle was
located shall not be assessed the costs of towing and storage of the vehicle.
Further, nothing within this article shall be construed to modify or effect the
validity of the possessory lien of the person removing such vehicle from the
real property established by K.S.A. 8-1102(b).
§ 14-508 CHARGES CONSTITUTE A LIEN.
   The towing and storage charges occasioned by the impoundment of a motor
vehicle pursuant to §
14-502 shall be and constitute a lien upon the impounded motor vehicle, except
as provided in this section. If the hearing examiner finds pursuant to §
14-507 that the impoundment was improper and if he or she determines that the
city shall bear part or all of the towing and storage charges, the lien created
by this section shall be discharged. If the hearing examiner finds pursuant to
§
14-506 that the impoundment was proper but that the towing and storage charges
should be in an amount less than the amount of the lien, the lien created by
this section shall be discharged to the extent that it exceeds the amount
established by the hearing examiner. The holder of a lien created by this
section may perfect such lien in any manner provided by law, but he or she may
not retain possession of the motor vehicle when it has been released pursuant
to §
14-506(a). In the event that the impounded motor vehicle is released from
impoundment and the owner or his or her agent has provided security for payment
of charges as required by §
14-506(b), the lien created by this section shall also be a lien against the
security so provided, subject to being wholly or partially discharged as
provided in this section.
§ 14-509 SATISFACTION OF LIEN; NOTICE OF PUBLIC SALE.
   The holder of a lien against a motor vehicle created by §
14-508, to the extent that such lien has not been discharged as provided in §
14-508 or otherwise satisfied, may enforce such lien in any manner provided by
law after 60 days from the date the motor vehicle is impounded by the Police
Department. If the owner of the motor vehicle or his or her agent has provided
security for the payment of the lien as provided in §
14-506(b), the lien shall first be satisfied out of the security so provided
and, if any portion of the lien remains unsatisfied and undischarged, may then
be enforced in any manner provided by law. If the motor vehicle against which
the lien is created pursuant to §
14-508 is still under impoundment 60 days from the date it is impounded by the
Police Department and the owner has not requested release of the motor vehicle
from impoundment nor paid the towing and storage charges that are the basis for
the lien, the motor vehicle shall be sold at public sale to the highest and
best bidder for cash to satisfy the lien. Notice of the sale shall be given in
accordance with K.S.A. 8-1102. Publication, required by K.S.A. 8-1102, may be
made before the termination of the 60-day period for a sale thereafter.
§ 14-510 REDEMPTION.
   If the city is to conduct the sale:
   (a)   Any holder of a recorded lien or retained title on a motor vehicle to
be sold by the city under the provisions of §
14-509 may claim and take possession thereof, upon payment of accrued charges
and estimated costs of publication of the notice of sale to the Police
Department and the deposit with the Police Department of sufficient assurance
by surety bond or otherwise, approved by the City Attorney, that the motor
vehicle will be forthcoming for public sale thereof or upon claim of the
rightful owner prior to the sale. The Police Department shall, within three
days, make a report to the City Treasurer and deliver the charges and costs so
paid to the City Treasurer, taking a receipt therefor and filing it, together
with a duplicate copy of the report to the City Treasurer, with the records in
his or her office. The funds shall be held in a trust account until final
disposition of the motor vehicle. Not less than five days before the date for
sale of the motor vehicle, the Police Department shall notify the lienholder or
retained titleholder of the time and place for the sale, and the lienholder or
retained titleholder shall deliver such motor vehicle to the Police Department
at or before 12:00 noon of the day before the sale. At the sale the amount paid
shall be credited on the bid of the lienholder or retained titleholder. If the
lienholder or retained titleholder is the successful bidder for the motor
vehicle, the Police Department shall report this fact to the City Treasurer and
then the funds previously paid by the lienholder or retained titleholder shall
be relieved of the trust previously impressed and become the same as other
funds received by the city for storage and costs of impounded motor vehicles.
If the motor vehicle is sold for a higher bid to any person other than the
lienholder or retained titleholder, the Police Department shall report this
fact to the City Treasurer and the lienholder or retained titleholder shall be
refunded the amount previously paid by him or her out of the trust account.
   (b)   And if the rightful owner of the motor vehicle claims the same before
the sale by payment of the accrued charges, the Police Department shall
immediately notify the lienholder or retained titleholder in possession of the
motor vehicle and he or she shall return the same to the Police Department
within 12 hours. The Police Department shall report this redemption by the
rightful owner to the City Treasurer and the lienholder or retained titleholder
shall be refunded the amount previously paid by him or her out of the trust
account.
§ 14-511 SALE PROCEEDS.
   (a)   The proceeds of a public sale held pursuant to §
14-508 whether such sale was conducted by the city or by any other person,
after payment of the towing and storage charges and costs and expenses incident
to the sale, shall be deposited with the City Treasurer, if the owner of the
motor vehicle is absent from the sale, for credit to the trust account.
   (b)   The funds deposited in the trust account pursuant to this section
shall remain in the account subject to the order of the person legally entitled
thereto, but if no claim is made for these funds within a period of one year
after the sale, the funds shall become the property of the city, be released
from the trust account and be paid into the General Fund as miscellaneous
revenues.
§ 14-512 STATUTORY PROCEDURES.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to augment, diminish, supersede
or otherwise interfere with any statutory procedure established by the
legislature for the collection of unpaid towing and storage charges. The
procedures in this article are supplementary and cumulative to any statutory
procedures.
§ 14-513 IMPLEMENTATION OF ARTICLE.
   The Police Department and City Treasurer are authorized to make rules for
the implementation and administration of this article.
§ 14-514 REIMBURSEMENT FOR DISCHARGED LIENS.
   If a lien created by §
14-508 and held by a private wrecker or towing firm is discharged by §
14-508 pursuant to a determination by a hearing examiner that an impoundment
was improper and that the city shall bear part or all of the towing and storage
charges, the city shall pay to the firm the amount determined by the hearing
examiner. No payment shall be made until it is authorized by the City Attorney.
ARTICLE 6: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
   
14-601   Hazardous material defined
   
14-602   Same; exceptions
   
14-603   Transportation of hazardous materials
   
14-604   Hazardous materials routes
   
14-605   Parking of vehicles or trailers carrying hazardous materials
   
14-606   Removal of illegally parked trailers
§ 14-601 HAZARDOUS MATERIAL DEFINED.
   As used in this article, the term HAZARDOUS MATERIAL shall mean any material
or combination of materials that, because of its quantity, concentration or
physical, chemical, biological or infectious characteristics, poses a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health or safety or the
environment if released into the workplace or environment or when improperly
treated, stored, transported or disposed of or otherwise managed.
§ 14-602 SAME; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to any container that shall
have a capacity of 150 gallons or less that shall be used for the purpose of
supplying fuel for the vehicle on which it is mounted. These provisions shall
also not apply to vehicles, trailers, containers or tanks containing anhydrous
ammonia or other material primarily used by farmers for fertilizer purposes
when such vehicles, trailers, containers or tanks are parked or housed upon
property designated for the placement of such vehicle, trailer, container or
tank by any farmers cooperative, elevator company or farm supply store located
within the city limits.
§ 14-603 TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   Except as provided in §
14-604, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity
to transport any hazardous material upon any street, avenue, highway, road,
alley or any other public right-of-way in the city.
§ 14-604 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ROUTES.
   The provisions of §
14-603 shall apply to all streets, avenues, highways, roadways, alleys or other
public rights-of-way within the city, except those specified within this
section where transportation of hazardous materials shall be allowed.
Transportation of hazardous materials shall be allowed upon the streets,
avenues, highways or roadways as determined by the city.
§ 14-605 PARKING OF VEHICLES OR TRAILERS CARRYING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (a)   Except as provided in divisions (b) and (c) below, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity to park any vehicle,
trailer or semi-trailer carrying any hazardous material within any city zoning
districts as defined in
Chapter XVI of this code.
   (b)   Division (a) above shall not apply to vehicles, trailers or semi-
trailers parked for continuous periods of time not to exceed one hour where
such vehicles, trailers or semi-trailers are parked along those routes
specified in §
14-604 of this code.
   (c)   Division (a) above shall not apply to any vehicle, trailer or semi-
trailer carrying any hazardous material where such vehicle, trailer or semi-
trailer is not parked within 500 feet of any structure used for human
habitation.
§ 14-606 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED TRAILERS.
   If any vehicle, trailer or a semi-trailer is found parked in violation of
the provisions of this article, the Fire Chief or Assistant Chief or any law
enforcement officer may require the owner, operator or lessee of the trailer to
move it within two hours. If such removal is not accomplished on the order of
any such officer, it may be accomplished by any such officer, by any reasonable
means, if the continued presence of the trailer or semi-trailer at its parked
location constitutes, adds to or prevents correction of a situation threatening
imminent injury or damage to persons or property.
CHAPTER XV: UTILITIES
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   ELECTRICITY
      
3.   WATER
      
4.   SEWERS
      
5.   SOLID WASTE
      
6.   STORM WATER
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
15-101   Utilities division; duties
   
15-102   Definitions
   
15-103   Billings; payments due, Sunday/holiday/payments
   
15-104   Discontinuance of utility services
   
15-105   Disconnection for nonpayment of utility bills
   
15-106   Reconnection charges
   
15-107   Collection; collection fees
   
15-108   Cold weather terminations
   
15-109   Emergency health care utility service
   
15-110   Utility customer activation fee; tenant right-to-service verification
   
15-111   Service charge
   
15-112   Meters; testing
   
15-113   Same; obstructions; meter cards; off-site reading
   
15-114   Same; access
   
15-115   Discontinuance; repairs to system or emergencies
   
15-116   Emergency shortages
   
15-117   Permit required for extension of utilities outside corporate limits
§ 15-101 UTILITIES DIVISION; DUTIES.
   (a)   The Utilities Division Within the Department of Public Service shall
be responsible for maintaining and operating the following city facilities:
      (1)   Electric production plant;
      (2)   Electric distribution system;
      (3)   Water wells and water treatment system;
      (4)   Water distribution system;
      (5)   Wastewater collection system; and
      (6)   Wastewater treatment plant.
   (b)   The City Manager shall appoint a supervisor to direct the maintenance
and operation of each of the above facilities, or two or more of the above
facilities, as required for the efficient and effective operation of the
Utilities Division.
   (c)   The Utilities Division shall also be responsible for certain upgrades
to the above facilities, as directed by city codes and policies.
(Ord. 1209, passed 8-16-1994)
§ 15-102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. The utility service account holder of record.
   PERSON. Natural persons and all corporation partnerships, associations and
all other types and kinds of organizations and entities, without limitation.
   UTILITY SERVICES. Electrical service, sanitary sewer service and water
service and all applicable and authorized additions and penalties with respect
thereto.
(Ord. 1209, passed 8-16-1994; Ord. 1032, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 15-103 BILLINGS; PAYMENTS DUE, SUNDAY/HOLIDAY/PAYMENTS.
   (a)   (1)   All billings for utility services shall be due and payable at
the office of the City Clerk on the first day of each month and must be paid in
full either:
         (A)   In the office by 4:30 p.m. on the sixteenth day of that month;
or
         (B)   On-line (once this payment method becomes available) by 7:30
p.m. Central Time on the sixteenth day of that month, after which date it shall
be considered delinquent.
      (2)   A late payment charge of 10% of the total amount due shall be added
to any delinquent account prior to payment.
   (b)   When the sixteenth falls on a Saturday, Sunday or city designated
holidays, all over the counter, drop box and mailed in payments will be
credited without a penalty assessed when they are received either:
      (1)   In the office by 4:30 p.m. on the next day of regular business
hours; or
      (2)   On-line (once available) by 7:30 p.m. Central Time on the next day
of regular business hours.
   (c)   Customers have the right to a hearing before a designated hearing
officer whenever the billing amount is disputed. The request for a hearing must
be submitted in writing and filed with the City Clerk no later than three days
prior to the date specified under division (b) above.
   (d)   The governing body of the city hereby authorizes the city to accept
credit card payments from persons for utility fees or other city exactions.
Only payments made by Master Card, Visa and Discover cards are hereby
authorized. Any transaction involving payment by credit card pursuant to this
section shall not be subject to the provisions of K.S.A. 16a-2-403, and
amendments thereto. The governing body hereby authorizes the city to establish
a fee to be added to each credit card transaction equal to the charge paid by
the city for use of the credit card by the person. If the city imposes a fee
for payments made by credit card, the city shall provide notice of such fee to
the person making payment by credit card, pursuant to K.S.A. 12-16,125.
(Ord. 1576, passed 9-6-2011; Ord. 1614, passed 7-2-2013; Ord. 1648, passed 6-
16-2015; Ord. 1667, passed 11-1-2016)
§ 15-104 DISCONTINUANCE OF UTILITY SERVICES.
   (a)   The City Utility Department is hereby authorized to discontinue or
refuse a particular utility service to any customer, without notice or hearing,
for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   When the customer so requests; and
      (2)   When it is determined by an employee of the City Utility
Department, Fire Department or Police Department that the continuance of a
particular utility service constitutes a dangerous condition presenting a
likely immediate threat to health or safety of persons or to property on or
near the customer’s premises.
   (b)   The City Utility Department is hereby authorized to discontinue or
refuse a particular utility service to any customer, following compliance with
the notice and hearing requirements of §
15-105 of this article, for nonpayment of utility bills and charges as provided
in §
15-105 of this article.
   (c)   (1)   The City Utility Department is hereby authorized to discontinue
or refuse a particular utility service to any customer, following notice to the
customer, for any of the following reasons:
         (A)   When the customer misrepresents his or her identity or otherwise
intentionally provides false information for the purpose of obtaining utility
services from the city;
         (B)   When the customer refuses to grant employees of the city’s
Utility Department access to equipment installed upon the premises of the
customer for the purpose of inspection, meter reading, maintenance or
replacement;
         (C)   When the customer violates any regulation or ordinance of the
city pertaining to utility service, which violation adversely affects the
safety of the customer or other persons, or the integrity of the city’s utility
services delivery system; and
         (D)   When the customer attempts, causes or permits unauthorized
interference, diversions, theft, tampering, damage or use of utility service or
the utility services delivery system situated or delivered on or about the
customer’s premises.
      (2)   The customer shall have the right to a hearing within a reasonable
time, not to exceed five days, following termination or refusal of service. If
after such hearing, the hearing officer finds in favor of the customer, the
hearing officer may order connection or re-connection of the service at no cost
to the customer.
(Ord. 1209, passed 8-16-1994)
§ 15-105 DISCONNECTION FOR NONPAYMENT OF UTILITY BILLS.
   (a)   An account delinquency and termination notice shall be issued in
writing within five days after the delinquency occurs. Notice shall be sent by
U.S. mail, first class, to the customer (and a copy also sent by U.S. mail,
first class, to the occupant of the premises served if the occupant is not the
customer) at the last known address of the customer as shown on the records of
the city. Written notice may also be provided by personal service upon the
customer by an employee of the City Utility Department or by any city law
enforcement officer or by such city employee posting the written notice upon a
door of a building upon the property serviced.
   (b)   The notice of account delinquency and service discontinuance shall
provide the following information:
      (1)   Name of customer and address where service is being provided;
      (2)   Account number;
      (3)   Amount past due plus delinquency charges; and
      (4)   Notice that utility service shall be disconnected upon failure to
pay the delinquent billing plus delinquency charges prior to 8:00 a.m. on the
first Wamego City Office business day of the following month.
   (c)   The notice of account delinquency and disconnection shall be
substantially in the following form:
   NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY AND DISCONNECTION
         Name of Customer
         Service Address
         Account No.
   According to our records,_____________ is PAST DUE as of amounting to
$_________. (This amount includes a delinquency charge.)
   We realize this is probably just an oversight on your part, however, service
will be disconnected if the above amount is not paid in full prior to 8:00 a.m. on
the first Wamego City Office business day of the next month.
   In the event service is disconnected, the above amount plus the charge
established under §15-106(a) of the Wamego City Code must be paid before service
is restored.
   OFFICE HOURS: 8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Monday thru Friday (excluding city
designated holidays)
   A 24 hour depository is located at the north side of City Hall.
   If you have mailed your remittance since the date of this notice, please
contact this office to verify that the payment has been received.
   Utilities will only be reconnected between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30
p.m., Monday through Friday (excluding city designated holidays) unless an
emergency occurs.
 
   (d)   At the hearing, the applicant customer and the city shall have the
right to present such evidence as is pertinent to the issue, may be represented
by counsel, and may examine and cross-examine witnesses; however formal rules
of evidence shall not be followed. The hearing shall be conducted by the City
Manager or such designated hearing officer as may be appointed by the City
Manager with the consent of the governing body. In the event the hearing
officer finds utility service(s) should not be discontinued, the hearing
officer shall so order and advise the appropriate Utility Superintendent
thereof. In the event the hearing officer finds utility service(s) should be
discontinued, the hearing officer shall so order and advise the appropriate
Utility Superintendent. Utility service(s) shall be discontinued upon the order
of the hearing officer. Extensions up to ten days from the date of the order of
discontinuance may be granted to enable the customer to make arrangements for
reasonable installment payments or for other good cause shown. The customer
shall be given notice of order of discontinuance in person or by certified
mall. In making a determination of whether discontinuance should be ordered,
the hearing officer shall consider, but not be limited to, the following
factors: whether discontinuance is dangerous to the health of the customer, the
customer’s family or any other residents of the premises affected; the weather;
unforeseen financial hardship of the customer; and the medical conditions, ages
or disability of the customer, the customer’s family or other residents of the
premises.
(Ord. 1209, passed 8-16-1994; Ord. 1619, passed 10-1-2013; Ord. 1648, passed 6-
16-2015; Ord. 1668, passed 11-1-2016)
§ 15-106 RECONNECTION CHARGES.
   (a)   After services have been terminated for nonpayment of a delinquent
billing amount, the customer shall pay a $40 disconnection fee and any
applicable tax plus their delinquent billing amount before service will be
restored. Payment in the form of cash, credit card or a money order shall be
required.
   (b)   Where a utility service has been temporarily disconnected at the
customer’s or consumer’s request, a disconnection fee of $40 shall be made for
restoring service at the same connection for the same customer if the
disconnection is for a period of less than 90 days, the same to be payable with
the next ensuing bill.
   (c)   Utilities will only be reconnected between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday (excluding holidays) unless an emergency
occurs.
(Ord. 1209, passed 8-16-1994; Ord. 1345, passed - -; Ord. 1619, passed 10-1-
2013; Ord. 1667, passed 11-1-2016)
§ 15-107 COLLECTION; COLLECTION FEES.
   (a)   All delinquent accounts for utility services shall be turned over to
an attorney or collection agency for collection.
   (b)   A collection fee of $30 shall be added to all delinquent accounts for
utility services to reimburse the city for administrative expense incurred in
collection on the delinquent bill. This fee shall apply to any account turned
over to an attorney or collection agency to effect collection for nonpayment.
(Ord. 1032, passed 10-4-1988; Ord. 1209, passed 8-16-1994; Ord. 1546, passed 8-
4-2009)
§ 15-108 COLD WEATHER TERMINATIONS.
   For the period between November 1 and March 31, the most recent “Cold
Weather Rule” protocol, prescribed and promulgated by the Kansas Corporation
Commission, shall be adhered to by the city with respect to termination of a
residential customer’s electric service, and with respect to payment
arrangements with residential customers.
(Ord. 1347, passed 11-7-2000; Ord. 1702, passed 11-6-2018)
§ 15-109 EMERGENCY HEALTH CARE UTILITY SERVICE.
   The city shall not discontinue the utility service of customers who have
submitted to the city a letter from a family physician, written on doctor’s
letterhead and bearing the signature of the physician, stating that, because of
the health of a family member, utility services are not to be disconnected.
This provision is applicable where breathing machines, heart monitors or other
life supporting equipment using city utilities are employed. In cases where the
city utility departments must disconnect service for line maintenance or new
installations, the city shall make a diligent effort to notify customers who
have submitted such letter, prior to disconnection. Notification prior to
emergency disconnections in response to an immediate safety threat shall not be
required.
(Ord. 1209, passed 8-16-1994)
§ 15-110 UTILITY CUSTOMER ACTIVATION FEE; TENANT RIGHT-TO-SERVICE VERIFICATION.
   (a)   New customers establishing permanent utility services or existing
customers of the city establishing utility service at a new address shall at
the time of activation for such service pay a utility customer activation fee
of $75 which shall be prorated to the credit of the electric, water and
wastewater utility funds of the city.
   (b)   Such utility customer activation fee shall not be required of
landlords who have established service at an address and who request that
utility service at the address be placed in such landlord’s name following
termination of the tenant’s account.
   (c)   Tenants who are renting or leasing property for which permanent
utility services are to be established shall at the time of activation for such
service present the lease or a copy thereof or a letter from the landlord of
such property, substantiating the tenant’s right-to-service.
(Ord. 1209, passed 8-16-1994; Ord. 1446, passed 3-15-2005; Ord. 1592, passed 6-
19-2012; Ord. 1605, passed 1-15-2013; Ord. 1704, passed 12-4-2018)
§ 15-111 SERVICE CHARGE.
   Whenever a landlord who has established utility service at an address
requests that the utility service at that address be placed in such landlord’s
name following termination of the tenant’s account, such landlord shall pay a
$15 service charge to reimburse the city for the costs incurred in turning on
the service, reading the meter(s) or both. Such fee shall be credited to the
Electric Utility Fund.
(Ord. 1446, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 15-112 METERS; TESTING.
   In the event a dispute arises between the city and a customer as to the
correctness of the measurement by any meter, such meter may be removed and
tested by the city, and if upon such test such meter does not measure within 2%
of the correct amount, no charge shall be made to the consumer for checking the
accuracy of the meter. If, upon checking the meter, it proves to measure within
2% of the correct amount, the consumer shall pay the city the sum of $100 for
the testing of the meter.
(Ord. 1032, passed 10-4-1988; Ord. 1626, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 15-113 SAME; OBSTRUCTIONS; METER CARDS; OFF-SITE READING.
   (a)   No obstruction or debris or unsafe conditions of any kind shall be
allowed to block any meter. If a metering device is not readily accessible to
the reader so that it may be read with a minimum of effort for a period of two
or more successive billing periods, the city reserves the right to shut off
services to the premises.
   (b)   As an option to shutting off service, the city may provide meter cards
to the customer upon which the customer shall record the reading and return to
the city office by the seventeenth of each month, however, the city’s reader
shall still be provided access to verify the readings at least once every six
months. If the card is not returned, the city will estimate usage.
   (c)   The city also has the option of installing remote, off-site meter
reading equipment to read meters, at the customer’s expense, where it is
determined the obstruction or unsafe condition cannot be adequately remedied.
(Ord. 1209, passed 8-16-1994)
§ 15-114 SAME; ACCESS.
   Employees of the Utility Departments shall have access at all reasonable
hours to read, repair, remove or install all electric and water meters
operating in the city system.
(Ord. 1347, passed 11-7-2000)
§ 15-115 DISCONTINUANCE; REPAIRS TO SYSTEM OR EMERGENCIES.
   Except as provided in this article, the city reserves the right to
discontinue utility service without notice to any and all customers of
municipal utilities when the same becomes necessary for repairs to the system,
or any part thereof; or when any properly authorized official has determined
that emergency termination of utility service is required to protect the health
and safety of the public.
(Ord. 1347, passed 11-7-2000)
§ 15-116 EMERGENCY SHORTAGES.
   (a)   The City Manager, upon being advised of critical or emergency
conditions or shortages with respect to electrical energy, generation capacity,
electrical usage, water availability or any circumstances or conditions
adversely affecting normal usage of electric, water or other municipal
utilities, shall have the executive authority to direct by executive order the
limitation or restriction of usage of any such utility under such conditions;
and for such period of time as shall be deemed by the City Manager to be in the
best interests of the community, its citizens and the utility facilities.
   (b)   Any such executive order restricting utility usage issued by the City
Manager may be modified or revoked by the affirmative vote of a majority of the
governing body at any regular or special meeting called for that purpose.
   (c)   Any violation of the terms and provisions of any executive order
issued under the authority of this section shall be reported to the office of
the City Clerk who shall, by delegation or otherwise, immediately notify the
billed party to whom utility usage with respect to the premises is billed, of
the violation and the City Clerk shall be authorized to add to the next utility
bill a violation assessment of $25, each separate day constituting a separate
executive order violation.
(Ord. 1032, passed 10-4-1988)
§ 15-117 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR EXTENSION OF UTILITIES OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   Any utility customer that adds additional infrastructure or substantially
increases use that alters their demand to the city utility system must acquire
a permit through the city prior to any work being performed. Such alterations
shall include but shall not be limited to extending service to structures not
already being served by city utilities, implementation of solar panels or other
alternative energy solutions, conducting manufacturing activities, operating an
event center or other gathering place, and any other activity that
substantially increases demand on the city utility system. This will pertain to
all electric, water, sewer and storm utilities provided by the city with all
standard permit fees being applicable. Plan requirements are consistent with
all permits. Inspections are required at the connection point to the city
system, but not within the structure.
(Ord. 1795, passed 11-7-2023)
ARTICLE 2: ELECTRICITY
Section
   
15-201   Definitions
   
15-202   Service connections; application
   
15-203   Same; connection charges
   
15-204   Same; installation and maintenance
   
15-205   Damages; liability
   
15-206   Unauthorized electric use
   
15-207   Billing: temporary service; defective meter
   
15-208   City residential service rates
   
15-208-A   Residential and commercial behind the meter service rate
   
15-209   Public and parochial schools, churches and public building rates
   
15-210   Commercial service rates
   
15-211   City industrial service rates
   
15-212   Rural residential service rates
   
15-213   Rural commercial rates
   
15-214   Rural industrial rates
   
15-215   Energy cost adjustment
   
15-216   Rates for space lighting
   
15-217   Guarantees of electric service delivery
   
15-218   New electrical system area; plan required
   
15-219   Same; cost charged to developer
   
15-220   Same; labor and materials; cost
   
15-221   Same; excess costs prorated
   
15-222   Same; advance deposit required
   
15-223   Same; ownership
   
15-224   Electric rate incentives
   
15-225   Inspection
   
15-226   Extension of system
   
15-227   Disconnecting and connecting fee
   
15-228   Parallel electric generating facilities
§ 15-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLING MONTH. The period of time elapsed between one regular monthly meter
reading and the subsequent regular meter reading taken approximately 30 days
thereafter.
   CITY. The City of Wamego.
   CONSUMER. The party using the service.
   CUSTOMER. The party in whose name the account is carried.
   MATERIALS. Includes, but not be limited to, underground primary wire, pad
mounted transformers, transformer pads, overhead primary wire, poles,
transformers mounted on poles, street light poles, street lights and all
connectors, fittings, brackets and other devices necessary to convey
electricity to parties who will be consumers of the electricity.
   NEW ELECTRICAL SYSTEM. The system of providing electrical services to
consumers of electricity in any new addition or area annexed into the city and
in existing areas which may be developed within the boundaries of the city.
   NEW ELECTRICAL SYSTEM AREA. The area covered by a new electrical system plan
as described in this article.
   OWNER. The legal or equitable owner of the real property connected to the
electric system of the city.
   SERVICE. The sale or supply of electrical energy by the city to customer or
consumers.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of electric distribution of the city.
(Ord. 839, passed 5-15-1979; Ord. 1209, passed 8-16-1994)
§ 15-202 SERVICE CONNECTIONS; APPLICATION.
   Before any residential, commercial or industrial property is connected with
the city’s electrical system, application must be made to the Electrical
Department by the owner, or his or her agent, of the property on which such
electricity is to be used, giving the voltage, amperage and phase required.
(Ord. 1209, passed 8-16-1994)
§ 15-203 SAME; CONNECTION CHARGES.
   The following charges shall be made prior to and for connection to the city
electrical distribution system.
   (a)   Standard connections: all new services 200 amperes or less,
underground or overhead, 115-230 volt, single phase, with appropriate meter,
meter socket, meter loop, wire (up to 100 feet) and fittings - $1,200.
   (b)   Non-standard connections: including all installations requiring
service wire in excess of 100 feet or where special circumstances require
additional labor and/or materials (e.g., transformer, boring, yard pole), all
installations above 200 amperes, all changeovers from overhead to underground
and all service reinstallations shall be charged to the customer at the cost of
the labor, equipment and materials employed in the installation thereof.
   (c)   The city, its contractors, agents or employees shall supply all labor
and equipment necessary to complete installation of materials in divisions (a)
and (b) above.
   (d)   Commercial and industrial customers may apply to repay the city for
the material, labor and equipment cost of new or changeover services as
described under division (b) above, over a five-year period. The city shall
require monthly payments equal to 1.79166% of said cost. The city reserves the
right to reject any application, and shall not consider applications by any
owner for under $2,500.
   (e)   The city may grant credits against the cost of new or changeover
service(s) as described under divisions (b) and (c) above, according to the
following provisions:
      (1)   $1,250 shall be credited against the cost of new service only, for
each single-family and two-family residential lot served;
      (2)   For service to lots intended for multiple-family residential,
commercial and industrial development, $75 shall be credited for each $1,000
increase in assessed valuation of the lot, as a result of the new or changeover
service. This increase shall be verified with the County Appraiser’s office by
the city one year after completion of the electric extension to the lot(s), and
the reimbursable credit shall be issued at that time;
      (3)   For new or expanding business, a $500 credit shall be applied for
each new full-time equivalent (2,000 hours/year) job created as a result of the
new or upgrade/changeover service. The hours of part-time or temporary
employees may be consolidated to obtain a full-time equivalent of 2,000 hours.
Creation of new jobs shall mean an increase in the employment capacity of a
business. For a new business expansion, this shall mean jobs added as a result
of the expansion. For business relocation within the electric service area,
only new jobs added after the relocation shall apply toward a credit. Job
creation shall be verified by the city one year after the business expansion or
start-up in the city’s electric service area, and the reimbursable credit shall
be issued at that time;
      (4)   New or expanding businesses shall also qualify for a $75 credit for
each $1,000 increase in assessed valuation, less the credits applied under
division (e)(2) above. This increase shall be verified with the County
Appraiser’s Office by the city one year after the business expansion or startup
in the city’s electric service area, and the reimbursable credit shall be
issued at that time;
      (5)   Where a building is constructed for speculation, rental or leasing
purposes, credits may be applied for by the party responsible for paying the
electric extension or upgrade-changeover costs when the building is occupied
and permanent electrical service has been provided. The city may provide
temporary electric service, including a 25 KVA transformer, 200 amp single
phase service with metering and necessary wiring at no cost to the developer
until permanent electric installation is made;
      (6)   Total credits issued shall not exceed total material costs; and
      (7)   Compliance with minimum standards shall be evaluated at the end of
each year.
(Ord. 1209, passed 8-16-1994; Ord. 1483, passed 8-1-2006; Ord. 1502, passed 5-
15-2007; Ord. 1590, passed 4-17-2012; Ord. 1624, passed 1-21-2014; Ord. 1653,
passed 9-1-2015)
§ 15-204 SAME; INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   Where the primary electrical wires of the city are adjacent to the premises
desiring service, the city will make the necessary connection at the electric
supply line, extend the drop line or wire to the meter box and supply the meter
and meter box. The building wiring, breaker box and service entrance shall be
provided and installed at the expense of the owner. All service entrances and
metering equipment will be installed at or on the premises requiring electrical
service. The city shall be responsible for the care and maintenance of the
wiring and apparatus from the service entrance to the city’s primary power
lines and the meter and all wiring and equipment installed by the city shall
remain the property of the city. The city reserves the right at its option to
remove and replace any such installation and the materials and equipment
thereto attached. All extensions of the city’s primary electrical system in
order to serve a particular customer shall be under the conditions set forth in
§
15-218 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1209, passed 8-16-1994)
§ 15-205 DAMAGES; LIABILITY.
   Any person who damages. or defaces any electric line, meter, light, lamp,
pole, transformer or other electric apparatus, device or equipment owned and
used by the city, shall be held liable for the damages and billed for the total
cost of repairs or replacement, including labor charges.
(Ord. 1209, passed 8-16-1994)
§ 15-206 UNAUTHORIZED ELECTRIC USE.
   (a)   No person shall take any electric energy from any electric
transmission or distribution lines or wires belonging to the city without the
permission of the governing body to do so. Nothing herein shall be construed as
limiting authorized departments of the city from using electricity for
authorized public purposes.
   (b)   Any person who shall in any way tamper with or break any seal on any
electric meter or who shall connect any service so that electricity may be used
without the same being properly measured and registered on a meter, shall be in
violation of the code. Nothing in this article shall be construed as applying
to any employee of the city in the lawful discharge of his or her duty of
connecting, repairing or testing any such meter.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to turn on any electric service
after the same has been turned off by the city for any reason.
(Ord. 1209, passed 8-16-1994)
§ 15-207 BILLING: TEMPORARY SERVICE; DEFECTIVE METER.
   (a)   Where a meter has been found defective or has ceased to register, the
amount of electrical current used shall be determined by adding the consumption
for a like seasonable period of three months when the meter registered properly
and dividing by three. When an electric meter is installed on other than the
first day of a billing month at premises to which the city has been providing
service but which service previously has not been metered, the amount of
current used shall be determined by ascertaining the average daily consumption
for the period during which the meter has been in operation and multiplying
such average by the number of days in the billing month.
   (b)   If a customer’s first bill or final bill for electric service is for a
period of less than one billing month, the charge for electric current used
shall be determined either by dividing the minimum monthly service charge for
such service by the number of days in the billing and multiplying the number of
days in which service was rendered during the billing month, or by applying the
schedule of rates applicable to such service to the first or final consumption
reading as taken from the meter. Both methods of figuring the charge for
current used in such cases shall be calculated with the largest amount
representing the amount to be charged.
(Ord. 1209, passed 8-16-1994)
§ 15-208 CITY RESIDENTIAL SERVICE RATES.
   (a)   The city will charge the rates set out in the following schedule. This
schedule of rates is available to all residential customers within the city
limits, subject to rules and regulations of the city; and service under this
schedule is limited to individual single-phase motors up to and including five
horsepower, having 60 hertz alternating current and 115-230 volts.
 
RATES:
   First 800 KWH @ 8.50 cents each
   All over 800 KWH @ 9.50 cents each
   Customer charge of $30 for each monthly billing period
 
   (b)   Water heater rate. If a customer installs and uses, for all their
water requirements in their residence, a solidly connected electric water
heater, of not to exceed 5.5 KW demand, with an insulated tank of 30 or more
gallons capacity, operating on 230 volts, and with thermostats so arranged as
to allow only one element to operate at a time, and has so informed the city,
the following rates apply:
 
RATES:
   All KWH @ 8.50 cents each
   Customer charge of $30 for each monthly billing period
 
   (c)   Total electric rate.
      (1)   Total electric rate shall apply if a consumer permanently installs
and uses all electric equipment for space heating, preparation of meals and
water heating in their residence, of not less than 2 KW capacity, and has so
informed the city in writing:
 
RATES:
   All KWH @ 8.50 cents each
   Customer charge of $30 for each monthly billing period
 
      (2)   The total electric rate shall apply only for monthly bills dated
November through May.
   (d)   Right to inspection. The city shall have the right of inspection as to
installed KW capacity and use of electric equipment.
(Ord. 1797, passed 12-5-2023; Ord. 1809, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 15-208-A RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL BEHIND THE METER SERVICE RATE.
   (a)   Generally. 
      (1)   The KWH step rate charges and customer charges corresponding to the
various consumer service categories established under this article are
applicable for electric service of a single character supplied at one point of
delivery and used for commercial, small industrial, three-phase, and
residential consumers who install alternative renewable generation, behind the
utility meter, for purposes of supplying a portion of their electric service
and who are located within the city limits; service to be 60 hertz, single and
three-phase at available voltages. In addition to KWH step rate charges, a KW
capacity charge shall apply to all metered, 30-minute demands. The capacity
charge shall be calculated at $3.90 per measured KW demand, but not less than
the highest demand established each year beginning July 1.
   (b)   Condition of service. Consumer has installed renewable generation
behind the utility meeting in accordance to the approved interconnection
standards and has completed the behind the meter application in accordance to
the renewable behind the meter policy. Motors having a rating in excess of five
horsepower must be three-phase. Consumers having their homes on the same
premises as their business establishment may include both the home and business
on the same meter and be billed under this schedule, or if the consumer
prefers, he or she may make provisions for two meters, in which case his or her
home will be billed on the applicable residential schedule and his or her usage
for other purposes will be billed under this schedule. If it is necessary to
make three-phase extensions or to replace existing line to provide three-phase
service, the minimum monthly bill will be determined in accordance with the
line extension policy or as set forth in the rules and regulations. Three-phase
service shall be metered separately from single-phase service. Single-phase
service may be combined for metering purposes if the capacity exceeds 15 KW.
(Ord. 1797, passed 12-5-2023; Ord. 1809, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 15-209 PUBLIC AND PAROCHIAL SCHOOLS, CHURCHES AND PUBLIC BUILDING RATES.
   (a)   The city will charge the following rates for standard electric service
to public and parochial schools, churches and public buildings.
   (b)   Character of service. 60 hertz alternating current, at the voltage and
phase of the established distribution system most available at the location of
the customer:
 
RATES:
   All KWH @ 8.35 cents each
   Customer charge of $55 for each monthly billing period
 
(Ord. 1452, passed 7-6-2005; Ord. 1797, passed 12-5-2023; Ord. 1809, passed 11-
19-2024)
§ 15-210 CITY COMMERCIAL SERVICE RATES.
   (a)   Generally.
      (1)   This schedule of rates is available for all electric service of a
single character supplied at one point of delivery and used for commercial,
small industrial, three-phase and other consumers for which no specific rate
schedule is provided, and who are located within the city limits; service to be
60 hertz, single and three-phase at available voltages.
 
RATES:
   First 800 KWH @ 8.00 cents each
   All over 800 KWH @ 9.50 cents each
   Customer charge of $60 for each monthly billing period
 
      (2)   In addition to KWH step rate charges, a KW capacity charge shall
apply to all metered, 30-minute demands. Capacity charge shall be calculated at
$3.90 per measured KW demand in excess of 40 KW, but not less than the highest
demand established each year beginning July 1.
   (b)   Condition of service. Motors having a rating in excess of five
horsepower must be three- phase. Consumers having their homes on the same
premises as their business establishment may include both the home and business
on the same meter and be billed under this schedule, or if the consumer
prefers, he or she may make provisions for two meters, in which case his or her
home will be billed on the applicable residential schedule and his or her usage
for other purposes will be billed under this schedule. If it is necessary to
make three-phase extensions or to replace existing lines to provide three-phase
service, the minimum monthly bill will be determined in accordance with the
line extension policy or as set forth in the rules and regulations. Three-phase
service shall be metered separately from single-phase service. Single-phase
service may be combined for metering purposes if the capacity exceeds 15 KW.
(Ord. 1452, passed 7-6-2005; Ord. 1797, passed 12-5-2023; Ord. 1809, passed 11-
19-2024)
§ 15-211 CITY INDUSTRIAL SERVICE RATES.
   (a)   Generally.
      (1)   This rate schedule is available and applicable to consumers located
within the city limits receiving electric service of a single character,
supplied at one point of delivery and used for large industrial accounts with a
connected load equal to or greater than 40 KW or 40 horsepower; service to be
60 hertz, single and three-phase at available voltages. Service to a customer
at any one location may, at the option of the city, be measured by more than
one meter.
 
RATES:
   First 20,000 KWH @ 7.50 cents each
   All over 20,000 KWH @ 8.41 cents each
   Customer charge of $275 for each monthly billing period
 
      (2)   In addition to KWH step rate charges, a KW capacity charge shall
apply to all metered, 30-minute demands. Capacity charge shall be calculated at
$3.90 per measured KW demand in excess of 30 KW, but not less than the highest
demand established each year beginning July 1.
   (b)   Condition of service. Motors having a rating in excess of five
horsepower must be three- phase. In the event it is necessary to make three-
phase extensions or to replace existing lines to provide three-phase service,
the minimum monthly bill will be determined in accordance with the line
extension policy or as set forth in the rules and regulations. Three-phase
service shall be metered separately from single-phase service. Single-phase
service and three-phase service may be combined for metering purposes if the KW
demand exceeds 15 KW.
(Ord. 1797, passed 12-5-2023; Ord. 1809, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 15-212 RURAL RESIDENTIAL SERVICE RATES.
   The city will charge for electricity sold for rural residential service from
its generating and/or distribution system, the rates set out in the following
schedule:
   (a)   Rural service schedule. This rate schedule is available to all rural
residential and farm consumers which are outside the city limits. Service under
this schedule is limited to individual single-phase motors up to and including
five horsepower, having 60 hertz alternating current and 115-230 volts.
 
RATES:
   First 800 KWH @ 8.84 cents each
   All over 800 KWH @ 9.88 cents each
   Customer charge of $35 for each monthly billing period
 
   (b)   Rural water heater rate and rural all electric rate.
 
RATES:
   All KWH @ 8.84 cents each
   Customer charge of $35 for each monthly billing period
 
(Ord. 1797, passed 12-5-2023; Ord. 1809, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 15-213 RURAL COMMERCIAL RATES.
   The city will charge for electricity sold for rural service from its
generating and/or distribution system, the rates set out in the following
schedule.
   (a)   Rural commercial schedule.
      (1)   This rate schedule is available and applicable to consumers
receiving electric service of a single character supplied at one point of
delivery and used for commercial, small industrial, three-phase and other
consumers for which no specific rate schedule is provided, and who are located
outside the city limits; service to be 60 hertz, single and three-phase at
available voltages. Service to a customer at any one location may, at the
option of the city, be measured by more than one meter.
 
RATES:
   First 800 KWH @ 8.32 cents each
   All over 800 KWH @ 9.88 cents each
   Customer charge of $63 for each monthly billing period
 
      (2)   In addition to KWH step rate charges, a KW capacity charge shall
apply to all metered, 30-minute demands. Capacity charge shall be calculated at
$4.06 per measured KW demand in excess of 40 KW, but not less than the highest
demand established each year beginning July 1.
   (b)   Condition of service. Motors having a rating in excess of five
horsepower must be three- phase. Consumers having their homes on the same
premises as their business establishment may include both the home and business
on the same meter and be billed under this schedule, or if the consumer
prefers, he or she may make provisions for two meters, in which case his or her
home will be billed on the applicable residential schedule and his or her usage
for other purposes will be billed under this schedule. If it is necessary to
make three-phase extensions or to replace existing lines to provide three-phase
service, the minimum monthly bill will be determined in accordance with the
line extension policy or as set forth in the rules and regulations. Three-phase
service shall be metered separately from single-phase service. Single-phase
service may be combined for metering purposes if the capacity exceeds 15 KW.
(Ord. 1452, passed 7-6-2005; Ord. 1797, passed 12-5-2023; Ord. 1809, passed 11-
19-2024)
§ 15-214 RURAL INDUSTRIAL RATES.
   (a)   Generally.
      (1)   This rate schedule is available and applicable to consumers located
outside the city limits receiving electricity service of a single character,
supplied at one point of delivery and used for large industrial accounts with a
connected load equal to or greater than 40 KW or 40 horsepower; service to be
60 hertz, single and three-phase at available voltages. Service to a customer
at any one location may, at the option of the city, be measured by more than
one meter.
 
RATES:
   All usage @ 8.75 cents each
   Customer charge of $284 for each monthly billing period
 
      (2)   In addition to KWH step rate charges, a KW capacity charge shall
apply to all metered, 30-minute demands. Capacity charge shall be calculated at
$4.06 per measured KW demand in excess of 30 KW, but not less than the highest
demand established during the period beginning July 1 of each calendar year.
   (b)   Condition of service. Motors having a rating in excess of five
horsepower must be three- phase. In the event it is necessary to make three-
phase extension or to replace existing lines to provide three-phase service,
the minimum monthly bill will be determined in accordance with the line
extension policy as set forth in the rules and regulations. Three-phase service
shall be metered separately from single-phase service. Single-phase service and
three-phase service may be combined for metering purposes if the KW demand
exceeds 15 KW.
(Ord. 1797, passed 12-5-2023; Ord. 1809, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 15-215 ENERGY COST ADJUSTMENT.
   (a)   All rates hereby established are based on a total fuel and purchased
power cost of $0.032 per net KWH generated and/or purchased from another
electrical utility, including all delivery and transmission cost associated
with delivering resources to the city. Whenever the actual average total cost
per KWH of power purchased or generated over the previous 12 months multiplied
by the system loss factor differs from the base cost of $0.032 the rates
established shall be increased/decreased by $0.00001 per KWH for each $0.00001
of such difference from the base cost.
   (b)   This adjustment shall be made each month. The system loss factor is
hereby established as 10% to account for distribution losses and energy
furnished free by the municipal electric utility to the city. Energy costs
shall be determined from the cost of natural gas, diesel oil, lubricating oil
and all components of purchased power contracts. Application of the energy cost
adjustment shall be at the option of the city. Amounts added to or deducted
from bills under the above adjustment shall not be reduced by any other
adjustment or discount, nor shall such amounts reduce the minimum bill.
(Ord. 1451, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 1482, passed 7-3-2006; Ord. 1506, passed 7-
3-2007; Ord. 1524, passed 7-1-2008; Ord. 1537, passed 3-24-2009; Ord. 1644,
passed 3-17-2015)
§ 15-216 RATES FOR SPACE LIGHTING.
   The following rates shall apply to space lights:
 
Electric Usage Charge:
   100-watt high pressure sodium lig$10 per month
   250-watt high pressure sodium lig$17 per month
   LED replacement light            $20 per month
Installation Without Pole:             $525
Installation With Pole:                $1,111
 
(Ord. 1427, passed 2-17-2004; Ord. 1797, passed 12-5-2023; Ord. 1809, passed
11-19-2024)
§ 15-217 GUARANTEES OF ELECTRIC SERVICE DELIVERY.
   The city shall not be liable to any consumer of electricity for failure to
provide electricity or for damages resulting from low voltage or power surges
unless the city is grossly or wantonly negligent or intends to create damages
to the electric customer or consumer. The city does not guarantee the delivery
of electricity through any of its conductors at any time except only when its
interconnections, generators, conductors and transformers are in good working
order and the peak electrical capacity of the system is sufficient for the
usual peak demand of its consumers.
(Ord. 1225, passed 5-2-1995)
§ 15-218 NEW ELECTRICAL SYSTEM AREA; PLAN REQUIRED.
   Before work is commenced in a new electrical system area, the developer
shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, for submission to the Superintendent
for his or her approval, a new electrical system plan, which shall consist of a
drawing on a plat of the area of the electrical system proposed to be
installed. The drawing shall indicate the approximate location and size of
underground primary wires, transformers and street lights. If overhead
construction is proposed, the drawing shall indicate the approximate locations
and sizes of poles, wires, transformers and street lights. Before any materials
are procured or installed as hereinafter provided, the plan shall be approved
by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 1225, passed 5-2-1995)
§ 15-219 SAME; COST CHARGED TO DEVELOPER.
   The developer of any property contained within a new electrical system area
shall pay to the city the cost of all materials necessary to complete the new
electrical system. The cost of materials charged to the developer shall include
the cost of materials used to connect the new electrical system to an existing
portion of the electrical system of the city even though the connection may be
outside the new electrical system area. The cost of construction of feeder
lines from the power plant or other similar points shall not be charged to the
developer.
(Ord. 1225, passed 5-2-1995)
§ 15-220 SAME; LABOR AND MATERIALS; COST.
   (a)   The city, its contractors, agents or employees shall supply all labor
necessary to complete installation of materials in a new electrical system.
   (b)   The materials to be used in a new electrical system shall be procured
by the city.
   (c)   The developer shall be responsible for payment of the city’s cost in
providing the labor specified in division (a) above.
   (d)   The developer shall be responsible for payment of the procured
materials specified in division (b) above at the same cost as is charged to the
city by its wholesalers, including freight and applicable taxes.
(Ord. 1225, passed 5-2-1995)
§ 15-221 SAME; EXCESS COSTS PRORATED.
   In the event the new electrical system plan prepared and submitted by the
developer and approved by the Superintendent requires installation of wire
larger in size than is necessary to serve the new electrical system area, then
the city shall pay the difference between the cost of the wire required to be
installed and the cost of wire of the size necessary to serve the area, but the
difference in cost may be charged by the city to subsequently developed new
electrical system areas that are served by the wire.
(Ord. 1225, passed 5-2-1995)
§ 15-222 SAME; ADVANCE DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, after an electrical system plan
has been approved and before any materials are procured or installed by the
city in a new electrical system area, the developer of such area shall deposit
with the City Clerk the sum of $2,000 from which the Clerk shall make such
withdrawals from time to time as are necessary to pay the cost of purchasing
materials for installation in the new electrical system.
      (2)   If the deposit of $2,000 is insufficient to pay the cost of
materials needed to complete the new electrical system, then such additional
deposits of $2,000 may be required of the developer as are necessary to
complete installation of materials within the new electrical system area.
   (b)   If, after a new electrical system plan has been approved, the
Superintendent shall certify to the city that a sum of less than $2,000 shall
be sufficient to complete installation of materials within the new electrical
system area, and the city shall approve a deposit in a lesser amount, the
developer may deposit such sum less than $2,000 as the city shall approve.
   (c)   Upon completion of a new electrical system area, the City Clerk shall
refund to the developer any monies on deposit which shall not have been used
for the purchase of materials.
(Ord. 1225, passed 5-2-1995)
§ 15-223 SAME; OWNERSHIP.
   Upon completion of a new electrical system, it shall become the property of
and shall be maintained by the city and shall thereafter be a part of the
electrical system of the city.
(Ord. 1225, passed 5-2-1995)
§ 15-224 ELECTRIC RATE INCENTIVES.
   (a)   The city may consider rate incentives for new upgrade/changeover
commercial or industrial customers subject to each of the following criteria:
      (1)   An annual usage of at least 250,000 KWH shall be maintained;
      (2)   (A)   The assessed valuation of the customer’s property shall have
increased by at least $50,000 at the time of the new or upgrade/changeover
service.
         (B)   This increase shall be computed from actual costs paid for
property and improvements, and shall be verified by the city with the County
Appraiser’s Office one year after the business expansion or start-up in the
city’s electric service area.
      (3)   (A)   At least five full-time equivalent (2,000 hours/year) jobs
must be created as a result of the new or upgrade/changeover service. The hours
of part-time temporary employees may be consolidated to obtain a full-time
equivalent of 2,000 hours. Creation of new jobs shall mean an increase in the
employment capacity of a business. For businesses relocating within the
electric service area, only new jobs added after the relocation shall qualify
the business for the incentives.
         (B)   Job creation and employee hours shall be verified with payroll
records or certified statements from payroll records, provided by the customer
annually after the business expansion or start-up in the city’s electric
service area over the five-year period.
      (b)   The electric rate incentives shall be based on a five year period
with a declining percentage of billing credit, as follows:
 
Year Percent Reduction In Monthly KWH Charge
1    25
2    20
3    15
4    10
5    5
6    0
 
(Ord. 1181, passed - -)
§ 15-225 INSPECTION.
   The Superintendent of Distribution shall, at all reasonable hours, have free
access to all parts of every building in which electric current is connected,
to examine the condition of lines, fixtures and apparatus used in connection
with the electric service and to read, repair, remove or install meters.
§ 15-226 EXTENSION OF SYSTEM.
   The city may extend its electric system within or without the city limits by
construction or purchase, when application for service has been made and
agreements entered into by persons along the proposed extension and when such
services will produce a revenue which in the judgment of the governing body
will be sufficient to pay interest on the cost of the extension, and for the
operating costs of the service. The governing body may, at their option,
require any proposed customer situated within or without the city limits to
whom it may decide to sell electricity to construct his or her own connection
to the electric system within the city limits at his or her own expense. The
construction and maintenance is to be subject to the supervision and approval
of the Superintendent of Distribution.
(K.S.A. 12-821)
§ 15-227 DISCONNECTING AND CONNECTING FEE.
   (a)   A service charge of $20 shall be made for a trip for collection of a
bill, and/or for disconnecting or reconnecting a service discontinued for
nonpayment of a bill. Such charge shall be paid before service is restored. A
service charge of $20 shall be made for restoring service at the same
connection for the same customer which shall have been temporarily disconnected
at the customer’s or consumer’s request if the disconnection is for a period of
less than 90 days, the same to be payable with the next ensuing bill.
   (b)   When continuous service is taken for a 12-month period by the same
customer although the service is taken at more than one connection, no
additional charge shall be made for connecting or disconnecting such service.
(Ord. 981, passed 5-20-1986)
§ 15-228 PARALLEL ELECTRIC GENERATING FACILITIES.
   (a)   Adoption.
      (1)   In order to establish standards, policies and procedures for
eligible residential and commercial customers to interconnect and operate
customer-owned inverter-based solar and wind generation facilities with a rated
output of 25 kilowatts AC or less for residential service and 200 kilowatts AC
or less for commercial service in parallel with the City of Wamego electric
distribution system, there is hereby incorporated by reference the document
known as “Interconnection Standards for Installation and Parallel Operation of
Customer-Owned Renewable Electric Generation Facilities 25 kWAC or Less for
Residential Service and 200 kWAC or Less for Commercial Service, City of
Wamego, Kansas”, including a template for interconnection agreements between
the city and customers of the city proposing to operate renewable electric
generation facilities in parallel with the city electric distribution system,
dated October 2021, together with the document known as “Behind the Meter
Generation Policy & Procedure For Customer-Owned Renewable Energy Resources”,
dated September 2019.
      (2)   No fewer than three copies of said interconnection standards and
said behind the meter generation policy shall be marked or stamped “Official
Copy as Adopted by Ord. 1760”, with a copy of said ordinance attached, and
filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public
at all reasonable hours.
   (b)   Available. Service is available at points on the utility’s existing
electric distribution system for customers operating renewable energy
resources. The service is available to customer-generators on a first-come,
first-served basis until the total rated generating capability of all
interconnections served under parallel generation equals or exceeds 4% of the
city’s peak load for the previous calendar year. Upon reaching this limit, no
additional service shall be available under this rate schedule. This rate
schedule shall not be available for any electric service schedule allowing for
resale.
   (c)   Application.
      (1)   Service under this renewable parallel generation rate schedule is
available to city (“utility”) customers in good standing with a customer-owned
renewable electric generation facility as defined in the Interconnection
Standards for Installation and Parallel Operation of Customer-Owned Renewable
Electric Generation Facilities 25kWAC or Less for-Residential Service and 200
kWAC or Less for Commercial Service, City of Wamego, Kansas, that wish to-
receive a billing credit for surplus renewable energy supplied to the utility
subject to the terms and conditions of this schedule.
      (2)   Customer-owned renewable generation and associated equipment are
collectively referred to as a generation facility.
      (3)   The utility may refuse interconnection of any generating facility
with a rated generating capacity greater than a customer’s annual peak electric
load. For calculation, see Interconnection Standards for Installation and
Parallel Operation of Customer-Owned Renewable Electric Generation Facilities
25kWAC or Less for-Residential Service and 200 kWAC or Less for Commercial
Service, City of Wamego, Kansas, Part 1, §8, page 2.
   (d)   Character of service. Single phase and three-phase, 60 hertz,
alternating current will be supplied at standard voltages as available through
one transformer. A QUALIFYING CUSTOMER is a customer in good standing,
connected to the utility electric distribution system for the purpose of
receiving retail electric service that also owns and operates a generation
facility, as defined in the Interconnection Standards for Installation and
Parallel Operation of Customer-Owned Renewable Electric Generation Facilities
25kWAC or Less for-Residential Service and 200 kWAC or Less for Commercial
Service, City of Wamego, Kansas. The generation facility shall be installed and
operated in accordance with the requirements of said Interconnection Standards.
   (e)   Rates.
      (1)   Rates for residential and commercial users shall be as follows:
 
RATES:
   First 400 KWH @ 6.55 cents each
   Next 400 KWH @ 5.00 cents each
   All over 800 KWH @ 4.00 cents each
   Customer charge of $6.00 for each monthly billing period
 
      (2)   In addition to KWH step rate charges, a KW capacity charge shall
apply to all metered 30-minute demands. Capacity charge shall be calculated at
$3.90 per measured KW demand, but not less than the highest demand established
each year beginning July 1.
      (3)   The minimum monthly charge of $6 plus the capacity charge shall be
the minimum bill. Any credits applied to the bill will not result in a total
bill less than the minimum bill. Additional installation fees may be applied as
detailed in the fee structure for a basic energy generation plan. The basic
energy generation plan is available upon request.
   (f)   Metering. Metering shall be accomplished by use of a utility-approved
electric meter or meters capable of registering the flow of electricity in each
direction. The utility may, at its own expense and with written consent of the
customer, install one or more additional meters to monitor the flow of
electricity.
   (g)   Customer billing. The measurement of net electricity supplied by the
electric utility and delivered to the electric utility shall be calculated in
the following manner. Electric utility shall measure the amount of electricity
delivered by electric utility to customer and the amount of electricity
generated by the customer and delivered to electric utility during the billing
period, in accordance with normal metering practices. The kWh delivered by
electric utility to the customer shall be billed to the customer at the rates
contained in this section. The kWh generated by the customer and delivered to
the electric utility shall be credited as described in customer billing credit
below. The calculated credit applied to the bill will not result in a total
bill less than the minimum bill.
   (h)   Customer billing credit. The billing credit for surplus energy
generated by the generation facility and delivered to the electric distribution
system that exceeds the customer’s instantaneous load, but is not in excess of
the appropriate generator size, the city shall credit 150% of the city’s actual
cost of purchased energy ($/kWh) for the periods in which energy was delivered
to the city.
   (i)   Terms and conditions.
      (1)   The utility shall offer this renewable parallel generation rate
schedule to customers that wish to receive billing credit for surplus renewable
energy supplied to the utility from eligible customer-owned solar generation
facilities.
      (2)   The utility may limit the number and size of renewable generators
to be connected to the utility’s system due to the capacity of the distribution
line to which such renewable generator would be connected, and in no case,
shall the utility be obligated to purchase an amount greater than 4% of
utility’s peak power requirements.
      (3) This schedule shall only be available to customers in good standing.
All agreements hereunder shall be between the customer and the city and will
not include third parties.
      (4)   This schedule is subject to the provisions of the Interconnection
Standards for Installation and Parallel Operation of Customer-Owned Renewable
Electric Generation Facilities 25kWAC or Less for-Residential Service and 200
kWAC or Less for Commercial Service, City of Wamego, Kansas.
      (5)   The interconnection agreement between the utility and customer must
remain in effect and the customer-owned generation facility must be in full
compliance with the terms and conditions of the interconnection standards for
installation and parallel operation of customer-owned renewable electric
generation facilities.
      (6)   Any required insurance coverage is specifically addressed in the
Interconnection Standards for Installation and Parallel Operation of Customer-
Owned Renewable Electric Generation Facilities 25kWAC or Less for-Residential
Service and 200 kWAC or Less for Commercial Service, City of Wamego, Kansas.
      (7)   Nothing in this schedule shall abrogate any customer’s obligation
to comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws, codes or
ordinances.
      (8)   This schedule shall remain in place for a minimum of 12 months.
(Ord. 1724, passed 11-19-2019; Ord. 1760, passed 10-5-2021)
ARTICLE 3: WATER
Section
   
15-301   Service connections; application and permit fee
   
15-302   Same; connection charges
   
15-303   Installation and maintenance
   
15-304   Damages; liability
   
15-305   Unauthorized water use
   
15-306   Schedule of rates
   
15-307   Sales for tank trucks
   
15-308   Guarantees of water service delivery
   
15-309   Water shortages; definitions
   
15-310   Declaration of a water emergency
   
15-311   Voluntary conservation measures
   
15-312   Mandatory conservation measures
   
15-313   Same; emergency water rates
   
15-314   Same; regulation
   
15-315   Same; violations, disconnections and penalties
   
15-316   Emergency termination
   
15-317   Water supply; hazards; purity or potability
   
15-318   Same; definitions
   
15-319   Same; cross-connections; in general
   
15-320   Enforcement
   
15-321   Inspection
   
15-322   Same; fee
   
15-323   Double check-double gate valves
   
15-324   Backflow preventer requirements
   
15-325   Testing of back flow devices
§ 15-301 SERVICE CONNECTIONS; APPLICATION AND PERMIT FEE.
   Before any residential, commercial or industrial property within the city is
connected with the water system, application must be made to the Water
Department by the owner, or his or her agent, of the property on which such
water is to be used, giving the location of the property and the size of tap
and service line required.
(Ord. 998, passed 11-18-1986)
§ 15-302 SAME; CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (a)   The following charges shall be made prior to and for connections to
the city water distribution system within the corporate limits of the city:
 
Tap and Meter Size         Charge
1 inch                     $1,300
2 inch                     $2,600
Over 2 inch or other sizes $500 plus the actual cost of material and labor for
                           the installation thereof
 
   (b)   For one-inch and two-inch services, where the size of the main being
tapped, the length of the service line and/or special service requirements add
significant cost to the city’s installation, the Building Official will require
an additional fee to recoup the added cost of materials and labor.
(Ord. 1215, passed 11-15-1994; Ord. 1483, passed 8-1-2006; Ord. 1561, passed 8-
3-2010)
§ 15-303 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (a)   Where the water mains of the city are adjacent to the property
desiring service, the City Water Department will make the necessary connection
to the water distribution system, tap the water main, extend and furnish the
supply line to the parking area, install and furnish the curb stop, meter pit
and meter in the parking area. All equipment and materials installed or used by
the city shall remain the property of the city.
   (b)   Each residential dwelling or commercial or industrial structure shall
have a separate water meter and connection, unless permission otherwise is
granted by the City Manager.
   (c)   No person shall extend any water pipes from one property or street
number to another without permission of the City Manager.
   (d)   The property owner shall install one or more stop and waste cocks in
his or her supply line so that the water may be shut off and the house plumbing
entirely drained, and no smaller service line than three-fourths inch shall be
installed from the main to any structure.
   (e)   No water line shall be installed in the same excavation with sewer and
other utilities.
   (f)   All meters now installed or re-installed shall be placed in the
parking area except that in the business district where meters shall be
installed in the parking (if possible) or at the most accessible location (if
there is no parking), the meter and curb stop shall be placed in a metal tile
or concrete meter box with cover furnished by the Water Department. For meters
installed or re-installed in an area approved by the City Manager but other
than the parking area, the property owner shall pay all additional material and
labor costs for the installation thereof.
   (g)   The Water Department shall, at its own expense, maintain and keep in
repair all water service lines from point of connection to the water main, to
and including curb stop valve, meter and enclosures if located in the parking
area. Maintenance costs for water service lines located outside the parking
area shall be the responsibility of the customer.
   (h)   Where the water mains of the city are not adjacent to the property
desiring service, the City Water Department may extend a new water main from an
existing main to the property. The owner of the property will be charged for
the cost of the material, labor (including any contracted labor), and equipment
required for the extension. Commercial and industrial customers may apply to
repay the city for up to $2,500 of the cost of the extension over a five-year
period. The city shall require monthly payments equal to 1.79166% of said cost.
The city reserves the right to reject any application.
(Ord. 998, passed 11-18-1986; Ord. 1623, passed 1-7-2014)
§ 15-304 DAMAGES; LIABILITY.
   Any person who damages or defaces any water service line, water main, meter,
curb stop valve or meter enclosures owned and used by the city shall be held
liable for the damages and billed for the total cost of repairs or replacement,
including labor charges.
(Ord. 956, passed 2-5-1985)
§ 15-305 UNAUTHORIZED WATER USE.
   (a)   No person shall take water from any city fire hydrant, draw cock or
hose pipe for private use without first securing authorization from the City
Manager, and having paid for such water. Nothing herein shall be construed as
limiting the Fire Department or other authorized departments of the city from
using water for authorized public purposes.
   (b)   Any person who shall in any way tamper with or break any seal on any
water meter or who shall connect any service so that water may be used without
the same being properly measured and registered on a meter, shall be in
violation of this code. Nothing in this article shall be construed as applying
to any employee of the city in the lawful discharge of his or her duty of
connecting, repairing or testing any such meter.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to turn on any water service after
the same has been turned off by the city for nonpayment of a water bill or an
unrepaired leak on the service line.
(Ord. 946, passed 8-21-1984; Ord. 956, passed 2-5-1985)
§ 15-306 SCHEDULE OF RATES.
   All water bills shall be paid monthly on or before the sixteenth day of the
month following the service rendered.
   (a)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, CUSTOMER shall mean the
water service account holder of record. Any water service account holder
assigned a city water meter is a customer. The following rates shall be charged
for each meter serving a customer.
   (b)   All city customers. The following are hereby established as rates for
water used by all residential customers within the city, for water obtained
from the municipal water system:
 
Customer charge: $17 per month
Use charge:      $3 per 1,000 gallons per month
 
   (c)   All rural customers. The following are hereby established as rates for
water used by all residential customers outside the city, for water obtained
from the municipal water system:
 
Customer charge: $34 per month
Use charge:      $6 per 1,000 gallons per month
 
(Ord. 1295, passed 10-6-1998; Ord. 1741, passed 1-9-2021; Ord. 1783, passed 11-
15-2022; Ord. 1799, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 15-307 SALES FOR TANK TRUCKS.
   Where water is sold for tank trucks or pick-up type containers, the charge
shall be $5 per 1,000 gallons.
(Ord. 1295, passed 10-6-1998)
§ 15-308 GUARANTEES OF WATER SERVICE DELIVERY.
   The city shall make every effort to deliver water to its water customers
through city mains, having a quality consistent with State of Kansas Department
of Health and Environment standards. The city shall not be liable to any
consumer of water for failure to deliver water unless the city is grossly or
wantonly negligent or intends to create damages to the water customer or
consumer. The city does not guarantee the delivery of water through any of its
mains and connecting services at any time except only when its mains, pumping
machines and power service connections are in good working order, and the
supply of water is sufficient for the usual demands of its consumers.
(Ord. 1081, passed 9-18-1990)
§ 15-309 WATER SHORTAGES; DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   For the purposes of §
15-309 through 15-315, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CUSTOMER. The customer of record using water for any purpose from the
city’s water distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made
or, in the case of sales, sales from the city fill pipe at the power plant, or
from any city water hydrant, a cash sale is made.
      WASTE OF WATER. Includes, but is not limited to:
         (A)   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch or other surface
drain; or
         (B)   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water due to defective
plumbing.
      WATER. Water available to the city for treatment by virtue of its water
rights or any treated water introduced by the city into its water distribution
system, including water offered for sale at any coin operated site, the city
fill pipe at the power plant and from any city water hydrant.
   (b)   The following classes of uses of water are established:
      CLASS 1. Water used for outdoor watering, either public or private, for
gardens, lawns, trees, shrubs, plants, parks, golf courses, playing fields,
private swimming pools or other recreational areas; or the washing of motor
vehicles, boats, trailers or the exterior of any building or structure.
      CLASS 2. Water used for any commercial or industrial, including
agricultural, purposes; and for public swimming pools, owned and operated by
the city, except water necessary to maintain the health and personal hygiene of
bona fide employees while such employees are engaged in the performance of
their duties at their place of employment.
      CLASS 3. Domestic usage, other than that which would be included in
either Classes 1 or 2.
      CLASS 4. Water necessary only to sustain human life and the lives of
domestic pets and maintain standards of hygiene and sanitation.
(Ord. 1045, passed 6-6-1989)
§ 15-310 DECLARATION OF A WATER EMERGENCY.
   (a)   Whenever the governing body of the city finds that an emergency exists
by reason of a shortage of water supply needed for essential uses, it shall be
empowered to declare by resolution that a water supply emergency exists and
that it will encourage voluntary water conservation or impose mandatory
restrictions on water use during the period of the emergency.
   (b)   Such an emergency shall be deemed to continue until it is declared by
resolution of the governing body to have ended. The resolutions declaring the
existence and end of a water supply emergency shall be effective upon their
publication in the official city newspaper, The Times.
(Ord. 1045, passed 6-6-1989)
§ 15-311 VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in §
15-310, the Mayor or the City Manager is authorized to call on all water
consumers to employ voluntary water conservation measures to limit or eliminate
non-essential water uses including, but not limited to, limitations on the
following uses:
   (a)   Sprinkling of water on lawns, shrubs or trees (including golf
courses);
   (b)   Washing of automobiles;
   (c)   Use of water in swimming pools, fountains and evaporative air
conditioning systems; and
   (d)   Waste of water.
(Ord. 1045, passed 6-6-1989)
§ 15-312 MANDATORY CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in §
15-310, the Mayor or the City Manager is also authorized to implement certain
mandatory water conservation measures, including, but not limited to, the
following:
   (a)   Suspension of new connections to the city’s water distribution system,
except connections of fire hydrants and those made pursuant to agreements
entered into by the city prior to the effective date of the declaration of the
emergency;
   (b)   Restrictions on the uses of water in one or more classes of water use,
wholly or in part;
   (c)   Restrictions on the sales of water at coin-operated facilities or
sites, from the pipe at the power plant or from any city fire hydrant;
   (d)   The imposition of water rationing based on any reasonable formula
including, but not limited to, the percentage of normal use and per capita or
per consumer restrictions;
   (e)   Complete or partial bans on the waste of water; and
   (f)   Any combination of the foregoing measures.
(Ord. 1045, passed 6-6-1989)
§ 15-313 SAME; EMERGENCY WATER RATES.
   (a)   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in §
15-310, the governing body shall have the power to adopt emergency water rates
by ordinance designed to conserve water supplies.
   (b)   Such emergency rates may provide for, but shall not be limited to:
      (1)   Higher charges for increasing usage per unit of use (increasing
block rates);
      (2)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit
rate); or
      (3)   Extra charges in excess of a specified level of water use (excess
demand surcharge).
(Ord. 1045, passed 6-6-1989)
§ 15-314 SAME; REGULATION.
   During the effective period of any water supply emergency as provided for in
§
15-310, the Mayor or City Manager is empowered to promulgate such regulations
as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this article, any water
supply emergency resolution or emergency water rate ordinance. Such regulations
shall be subject to the approval of the governing body at its next regular or
special meeting.
(Ord. 1045, passed 6-6-1989; Ord. 1298, passed 10-20-1998)
§ 15-315 SAME; VIOLATIONS, DISCONNECTIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   If the Mayor, City Manager, Water Production or Distribution
Superintendents, or other city official or officials charged with
implementation and enforcement of this article or a water supply emergency
resolution learn of any violation of any water use restrictions imposed
pursuant to §§
15-312 or 15-314 of this article, they are empowered to immediately disconnect
or cause to be disconnected the violating fixture, provided the fixture is
located in an exterior area or interior area readily accessible to the public.
In addition, a written notice of the violation shall be affixed to the property
where the violation occurred and the customer of record and any other person
known to the city who is responsible for the violation or its correction shall
be provided with either actual or mailed notice. The notice shall describe the
violation and order that it be corrected, cured or abated immediately or within
such specified time as the city determines is reasonable under the
circumstances, or if disconnected by the city, that the violation not reoccur.
If the order is not complied with, the city may terminate water service to the
customer subject to the following procedures:
      (1)   The city shall give the customer notice by mail or actual notice
that water service will be discontinued within a specified time due to the
violation and that the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the
termination by requesting a hearing scheduled before the city governing body or
a city official designated as a hearing officer by the governing body;
      (2)   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered; and
      (3)   The governing body or hearing officer shall make findings of fact
and order whether service should continue or be terminated.
   (b)   A fee of $20 shall be paid for the reconnection on any water service
terminated pursuant to division (a) above. In the event of subsequent
violations, the reconnection fee shall be $80 for the second violation and $120
for any additional violations.
   (c)   Any consumer may also be charged with violation of this section and
prosecuted in Municipal Court. Any person so charged and found guilty in
Municipal Court of violating the mandatory conservation measures provided in
this section shall be guilty of a code violation.
(Ord. 1045, passed 6-6-1989; Ord. 1298, passed 10-20-1998)
§ 15-316 EMERGENCY TERMINATION.
   Nothing in this section shall limit the ability of any properly authorized
city official from terminating the supply of water to any or all customers upon
the determination of such city official that emergency termination of water
service is required to protect the health and safety of the public.
(Ord. 1045, passed 6-6-1989)
§ 15-317 WATER SUPPLY; HAZARDS; PURITY OR POTABILITY.
   (a)   The Superintendent of Distribution and the plumbing inspector are
hereby authorized to discontinue or cause to be discontinued, all the water
service or services to any and all premises, lands, buildings or structures
where it is found that an immediate hazard exists to the purity or potability
of the city water supply.
   (b)   The Superintendent of Water Distribution and the plumbing inspector
are hereby authorized and directed to take such steps as are necessary to avoid
all potential hazards to the purity or potability of the city water supply.
Upon determining that a hazard or potential hazard exists, it shall be their
duty to immediately cause notice to go to the owner or such other person as may
be responsible for the premises, specifying the hazards and stating that if the
hazard is not corrected within 30 days from the date of the notice, all water
services shall be discontinued thereafter until the requirements of this code
shall have been complied with.
§ 15-318 SAME; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP. A physical separation between a supply and receptor, of at least
twice the supply outlet, but never less than one inch.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER, REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE TYPE. An assembly of
different valves and check valves, including an automatically opening spillage
port to the atmosphere, and properly located test cocks.
   CONTAMINATE. Any substance that, upon contacting potable water, would render
it a danger to life and health.
   CROSS-CONNECTIONS. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water, and the
other, water of unknown or questionable safety, steam, gases or chemicals,
where there may be a flow from one system to the other. No physical cross-
connections shall be permitted between public or private water distribution
systems containing potable water and any other system containing water of
questionable quality or containing contaminating or polluting substances.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. A device consisting of two internally loaded
soft seated check valves with positive shut-off valves on both upstream and
downstream ends, and properly located test ports.
   FREE WATER SURFACE. A water surface that is at atmospheric pressure.
   FROST PROOF CLOSET. A hopper with no water in the bowl and with the trap and
water supply control valve located below frost line.
   PLUMBING. The practice, materials and fixtures used in the installation,
maintenance, extension and alteration of all piping fixtures, appliances and
appurtenances in connection with any of the following: sanitary drainage or
storm drainage facilities, the venting system and/or the private water supply
systems, within or beyond the supply point to any building, structure or
conveyance; also, the practice and materials used in the installation,
maintenance, extension or alteration of storm water, liquid waste or sewage,
and water supply systems from any premises to a connection with any point of
public disposal or other acceptable terminal.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water, that tends to degrade its quality but
does not constitute a health hazard.
   VACUUM. Any pressure less than that exerted by the atmosphere.
   VACUUM BREAKER. A device that permits air into a water supply distribution
line to prevent backsiphonage.
(Ord. 1051, passed 9-5-1989)
§ 15-319 SAME; CROSS-CONNECTIONS; IN GENERAL.
   (a)   Generally. The potable water supply system of the city and the potable
water system of private users shall be designed, installed and maintained to
best prevent contamination or pollution from non-potable liquids, solids or
gases from being introduced into the potable water supply through cross-
connections or any other piping connections to the system. Any water being
provided by the city will fall under the rules and regulations of the cross-
connection program. All public or private users being supplied by city water
directly or indirectly shall conform to standards set by the city.
   (b)   Prohibited connections of fixtures and equipment. Connection to the
potable water supply system for the following is prohibited unless protected
against backflow in accordance with Section 1003 of the Uniform Plumbing Code
set out herein:
      (1)   Bidets;
      (2)   Operating, dissection, embalming and mortuary tables or similar
equipment: in such installations the hose used for water supply shall terminate
at least 12 inches away from every point of the table or attachments;
      (3)   Pumps for non-potable water, chemicals or other substances; priming
connections shall be made only through an air gap or an approved reduced
pressure principle assembly;
      (4)   Building drainage, sewer or vent systems;
      (5)   Commercial buildings or industrial plants using a contaminating or
polluting substance; and
      (6)   Any other fixture or similar hazard.
(Ord. 1051, passed 9-5-1989)
§ 15-320 ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   The City Building Official/Codes Enforcement Officer is hereby
authorized to prescribe the proper type, usage, placement and location of
backflow prevention devices and to require the installation of the devices as
determined for all plumbing installations or modifications of existing plumbing
systems for which a city plumbing permit is required. Examples of installations
requiring backflow prevention devices shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Refrigerating unit condensers and cooling jackets. Except when
potable water provided for a refrigerator condenser or cooling jacket is
entirely outside the piping or tank containing a toxic refrigerant, the inlet
connection shall be provided with an approved backflow preventer. Heat
exchangers used to heat water for potable purposes shall be of the double wall
type;
      (2)   All new yard sprinkler systems for which a plumbing permit may be
required;
      (3)   Sill cocks; and
      (4)   Boilers.
   (b)   The City Building Official/Code Enforcement Officer is hereby
authorized to prescribe the proper maintenance and overhaul of backflow
prevention devices already in service, in accordance with the age and condition
of the device, and the manufacturer’s instruction. Overhaul intervals should
not exceed eight years.
(Ord. 1051, passed 9-5-1989)
§ 15-321 INSPECTION.
   The City Building Official/Codes Enforcement Officer shall be required to
inspect and test all testable backflow prevention equipment after the initial
installation to ensure proper placement, and once every two years thereafter.
The Building Official/Codes Enforcement Officer may designate a certified
backflow prevention inspector to conduct the inspection and tests. Testing
procedures shall be in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.
(Ord. 1051, passed 9-5-1989)
§ 15-322 SAME; FEE.
   The City Building Official/Code Enforcement Officer or designated certified
backflow prevention inspector is hereby authorized to collect an inspection and
testing fee from the owner or owner’s agent having possession of the backflow
prevention equipment.
(Ord. 1051, passed 9-5-1989)
§ 15-323 DOUBLE CHECK-DOUBLE GATE VALVES.
   The Building Official/Codes Enforcement Officer may approve installation of
double check-double gate valve assemblies with test cocks, as protective
devices against backflow in connections between a potable water system and
other fluid systems which present no significant health hazard in the judgment
of the Building Official/Code Enforcement Officer. Approved double check valve
assemblies may be used on lawn irrigation systems if no means of injecting
chemicals is incorporated.
(Ord. 1051, passed 9-5-1989)
§ 15-324 BACKFLOW PREVENTER REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Generally. The City Building Official/Codes Enforcement Officer, in
performing the duties specified in §§
15-320 and
15-321 of this article, shall follow the regulationsset by the city.
   (b)   Installation. Approved devices to protect against backflow
backsiphonage shall be installed at all fixtures and equipment where backflow
or backsiphonage may occur and where a minimum air gap cannot be provided
between the water outlet to the fixture or equipment and its flood-level rim.
Devices for the prevention of backflow shall be installed as follows.
      (1)   Vacuum breakers. Vacuum breakers shall be installed with the
critical level at least six inches above the flood level rim of the fixture
they serve and on the discharge side of the last control valve to the fixture.
No shutoff valve or faucet shall be installed on the discharge side of the
vacuum breaker. For closed equipment or vessels such as pressure sterilizers
the top of the vessels shall be treated as the flood level rim but a check
valve shall be installed on the discharge side of the vacuum breaker.
      (2)   Reduced pressure principle backflow preventer. A reduced pressure
principle type backflow preventer may be installed subject to full static
pressure.
      (3)   Devices of all types.
         (A)   Backflow and backsiphonage preventing devices shall be
accessibly located, preferably in the same room with the fixture they serve.
Installation in the utility or service spaces, provided they are readily
accessible, is also permitted.
         (B)   No installation shall be made in pits or other locations not
properly drained, unless specifically authorized by the installation
instructions of the backflow prevention device.
      (4)   Connections not subject to back pressure. Where a water connection
is not subject to back pressure, a vacuum breaker shall be installed on the
discharge side of the last valve on the line serving the fixture or equipment.
A list of some conditions requiring protective devices of this kind is given in
Table 1, “Cross-Connections Where Protective Devices are Required and Critical
Level (C-L) Settings for Vacuum Breakers”.
      (5)   Connections subject to back pressure. Where a potable water
connection is made to a line, fixture, tank vat, pump or other equipment with a
hazard of backflow or backsiphonage where the water connection is subject to
back pressure, and an air gap cannot be installed, the Building Official/Code
Enforcement Officer may require the use of an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow preventer assembly or double check valve assembly. A partial
list of such connections is shown in Table 2.
      (6)   Automatic fire suppression system.
         (A)   All new installations of automatic fire suppression systems of
15 heads or more or having a Fire Department connection shall be protected from
backflow with-an approved double check valve assembly.
         (B)   Any fire suppression system into which chemicals of any type
(corrosion, antifreeze and the like) can be added shall be protected at the
service connection with an approved reduced pressure principle assembly.
         (C)   In lieu of such protection, an antifreeze loop may be
individually protected with an approved reduced pressure principle assembly in
addition to proper service line protection.
(Ord. 1051, passed 9-5-1989)
§ 15-325 TESTING OF BACK FLOW DEVICES.
   Testing and repair of backflow devices will be done by licensed plumbers,
trained as tester/repair technicians. Maintenance workers, who are certified as
test/repair technicians can service backflow preventers in their place of
employment.
(Ord. 1051, passed 9-5-1989)
Table 1
Cross-Connections Where Protective Devices are Required And Critical Level (C-
L) Settings for Vacuum Breakers
Fixture or Equipment Method of Installation
Table 1
Cross-Connections Where Protective Devices are Required And Critical Level (C-L)
Settings for Vacuum Breakers
Fixture or     Method of Installation
Equipment
Aspirators and C-L at least six inches above flood level of receptacle served
ejectors
Dental units   On models without built-in vacuum breakers, C-L at least six inches
               above flood level rim of bowl
Commercial     C-L at least six inches above flood level of machines; install on both
dishwashing    hot and cold water supply lines
machines
Garbage can    C-L at least six inches above flood level of machine; install on both
cleaning       hot and cold water supply lines
machines
Hose outlets   C-L at least six inches above highest point on hose line
Commercial     C-L at least six inches above flood machines level of machine; install
laundry        on both hot and cold water supply lines
machines
Lawnsprinklers C-L at least 12 inches above highest sprinkler or discharge outlet
Tanks and vats C-L at least six inches above flood level rim or line
Through        C-L at least 30 inches above perforated flush pipe
urinals
Flush tanks    Equip with approved ball cock, installed according to manufacturer’s
               instructions
Hose bibs
(where
aspirators or  C-L at least six inches above flood level of receptacle served
ejectors could
be connected)
Critical level (C-L) is defined as the level to which the vacuum breaker may be
submerged before backflow will occur; where the C-L is not shown on the preventer,
the bottom of the device shall be taken as the C-L
 
(Ord. 1051, passed 9-5-1989)
 
Table 2
Partial List of Cross-Connections Which May be Subject To Back Pressure
Chemical lines                 Pumps
Dock water outlets             Steam lines
Individual water supplies      Swimming pools
Industrial process water lines Tanks and vats- -bottom inlets
Pressure tanks                 Hose bibbs
 
(Ord. 1051, passed 9-5-1989)
ARTICLE 4: SEWERS
Section
   
15-401   Rules and regulations; severability
   
15-402   Definitions
   
15-403   Public sewers; use required
   
15-404   Same; connection required
   
15-405   Sanitary sewers; permits
   
15-406   Same; classes; application; fees
   
15-407   Same; costs; liability
   
15-408   Same; separate connections; exceptions
   
15-409   Old sewers; use
   
15-410   Construction codes
   
15-411   Connections; how made
   
15-412   Gravity flow; exceptions
   
15-413   Public sewer not available; private system
   
15-414   Same; permit; application; fee
   
15-415   Same; inspection
   
15-416   Same; requirements
   
15-417   Same; operation and maintenance costs
   
15-418   Same; additional requirements
   
15-419   Storm sewers
   
15-420   Public sewers; prohibited materials; preliminary treatment
   
15-421   Wastewater discharges; limitations
   
15-422   Discharge of prohibited materials; options
   
15-423   Interceptors; when required
   
15-424   Observation, sampling, measuring devices
   
15-425   Information required
   
15-426   Measurement standards
   
15-427   Special agreements
   
15-428   Unlawful acts
   
15-429   Inspector; power and authority
   
15-430   Same; confidential data protected
   
15-431   Same; liability of city
   
15-432   Same; entry over easements
   
15-433   Violations; notice
   
15-434   Same; penalty; liability
   
15-435   Guarantees of sewer service
   
15-436   Users classified
   
15-437   Use charges; basis for calculations
   
15-438   Schedule of rates
   
15-439   Same; extra strength surcharge
   
15-440   Same; water from non-city source
   
15-441   Same; exception
   
15-442   Billing procedure; discontinuance of service
   
15-443   Unpaid charges; property liens
§ 15-401 RULES AND REGULATIONS; SEVERABILITY.
   (a)   The following rules and regulations are hereby adopted to govern the
sewer services furnished by the city in a uniform manner for the benefit of the
city and its sewer users. They are subject to change from time to time.
   (b)   If any section, division, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
article is for any reason held invalid, or unconstitutional by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions thereof.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-402 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Superintendent of Utilities or other designated
official of the city or his or her duly authorized deputy, agent or
representative.
   B.O.D. (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   CITY. The City of Wamego, Kansas or its duly authorized representatives.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive wastewater and storm or surface
water.
   CONTRIBUTOR. Any person responsible for the production of sanitary sewage or
industrial waste which is directly or indirectly discharged in the city’s sewer
system.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of FLOATABLE OIL if it is
properly pre-treated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or
business, as distinguished from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly appointed by the city to inspect and
approve the installation of building sewers and their connections to the public
sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged therefrom.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body surface or
ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration in
moles per liter. It is used to indicate the concentration of free acid and
alkali.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   ROOF DRAIN. A conduit for conveying the storm or rain water from a roof.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary sewage and industrial wastes
and into which storm, surface and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SANITARY SEWER. Sewage discharged from the sanitary conveniences of
dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office buildings, factories
or institutions, and free from storm, surface water and industrial wastes.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds five times the average 24
hour concentration of flows during normal operation for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes and adversely affects the collection system and/or
performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer for conveying water,
groundwater, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in, water or wastewater, or is in suspension in, water,
wastewater or other liquids, and that is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in”Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater” and
referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER. A person or legal entity producing or causing to be produced
wastewater requiring processing and treatment to remove pollutants and having
premises connected to the wastewater facilities.
   WASTEWATER. Sewage, the combination of liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with any groundwater, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The system of structures; equipment and processes
required to collect, carry away and treat the wastewater and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-403 PUBLIC SEWERS; USE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or objectionable waste.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any wastewater or
other polluted wastes, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this article.
   (c)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-404 SAME; CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for
human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the
city and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city,
is/are hereby required at the owner(s) expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this article, within 90 days
after date of official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is
within 100 feet (30.5 meters) of the property line.
      (2)   Any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal
facilities shall be cleared of sludge and filled with suitable material.
   (b)   It shall be the responsibility of such owner(s) to properly maintain
the sewer lateral and saddle tap to the public sewer main.
   (c)   (1)   Where it is determined that intrusion of roots or other
obstructions from a sewer lateral or saddle tap is impeding the proper flow of
wastewater in the public sewer main, or where the condition of such lateral or
tap is causing damage to the public sewer main, the city shall give notice to
the owner of the sewer lateral or tap, establishing a period of 90 days from
receipt of the notice, to abate the condition giving rise to the intrusion,
obstruction or damage to the public sewer.
      (2)   If, following passage of the established period, the condition is
not abated to the satisfaction of the city inspector, the city shall make or
cause to be made the necessary corrective action, and shall charge the owner
for the work, which charge if left unpaid, shall be certified as an abatement
payable along with the taxes against the owner’s property served by the lateral
or tap.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977; Ord. 1676, passed 1-3-2017)
§ 15-405 SANITARY SEWERS; PERMITS.
   The use of sewers and drains of the city for the purpose of removing
sanitary sewage and industrial waste, from property situated outside the city
limits is hereby declared to be a privilege granted to the owners of such
property upon approval of the governing body, and upon payment of all fees and
charges and upon compliance with all requirements established by this article.
(Ord. 956, passed 2-5-1985)
§ 15-406 SAME; CLASSES; APPLICATION; FEES.
   (a)   (1)   There shall be three classes of building sewer permits:
         (A)   For residential and commercial service;
         (B)   For service to establishments producing industrial waste; and
         (C)   For any sewer user outside the city limits.
      (2)   In any case, the owner(s) or his or her agent shall make
application for a permit on a special form furnished by the city.
   (b)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent by the City Manager.
   (c)   A sewer inspection fee of $25 shall be charged for each class of
building sewer located within the corporate limits of the city, prior to
connection with the sanitary sewer system.
   (d)   A tapping permit and inspection fee of $350 shall be charged for any
sewer user outside the corporate limits of the city, which shall be paid to the
city at the time the application is filed. No sewer building permit for any
area outside the corporate limits of the city shall be granted unless the
permit is first presented to the governing body and approved thereby. Any such
permit shall specify all the terms upon which the use of city sewer services by
persons outside the city limits has been granted and shall be signed by the
Mayor and City Clerk on behalf of the city and by the person requesting and
receiving the permit.
   (e)   Dump station user fee:
      (1)   Fifteen dollars for 2,000 gallon minimum; and
      (2)   One dollar for each 1,000 gallon thereafter.
(Ord. 956, passed 2-5-1985; Ord. 1015, passed 7-21-1987)
§ 15-407 SAME; COSTS; LIABILITY.
   (a)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner (s).
   (b)   The owners shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-408 SAME; SEPARATE CONNECTIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; with the following exceptions.
   (a)   Where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot
and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, court yard or driveway, the front building sewer
may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building
sewer.
   (b)   Where two buildings are located on adjacent lots in the I-P:
Industrial Park District, as defined by the zoning ordinance of the City of
Wamego, Kansas, both buildings may connect to the same sewer lateral, providing
that:
      (1)   The owners of said tracts have signed an agreement, running with
the property, providing for installation and maintenance of the shared sewer
lateral, and individual building laterals which encroach upon the adjacent lot;
      (2)   A manhole is provided at the point of connection of the building
laterals to the shared lateral, and at the point of connection of the shared
lateral to the public sewer main;
      (3)   The shared lateral has a minimum six-inch diameter; and
      (4)   The City Building Official/and or City Engineer has determined that
estimated flow will not exceed the capacity of the shared lateral or public
sewer main.
(Ord. 1152, passed 2-2-1993)
§ 15-409 OLD SEWERS; USE.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the inspector to meet all
requirements of this article.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-410 CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   (a)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city.
   (b)   In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-411 CONNECTIONS; HOW MADE.
   Each connection shall be made at the “Y” designated for that property. The
only exception shall be where the designated “Y” is not located within three
feet of the point of measurement furnished by the city. Any connection not made
at the designated “Y” in the main sewer shall be made under the direct
supervision of the Superintendent of Distribution.
§ 15-412 GRAVITY FLOW; EXCEPTIONS.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-413 PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE; PRIVATE SYSTEM.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available, the building
sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system complying with
the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-414 SAME; PERMIT; APPLICATION; FEE.
   (a)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit from the City Manager.
The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as are deemed necessary by the governing body.
   (b)   A tapping permit and inspection fee of $25 shall be paid to the city
at the time the application is filed.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-415 SAME; INSPECTION.
   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the inspector. The
inspector shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction,
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the city when the
work is ready for the final inspection, and before any underground portions are
covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of notice
by the city.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-416 SAME; REQUIREMENTS.
   The type, capacities, locations and layout of a private wastewater disposal
system shall comply with all requirements and recommendations of the Kansas
Department of Health and Environment and the Pottawatomie County Health
Department. No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal
system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the
lot is less than that required by the current standards of the Pottawatomie
County Health Department. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-417 SAME; OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS.
   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-418 SAME; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this article shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the governing body.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-419 STORM SEWERS.
   (a)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
specifically designated storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved by the
city and other regulatory agencies.
   (b)   Unpolluted industrial cooling water or process waters may be
discharged, on approval of the city, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord.786, passed - -)
§ 15-420 PUBLIC SEWERS; PROHIBITED MATERIALS; PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.
   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (a)   Any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage (including interior and exterior foundation drains), uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters;
   (b)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (c)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in
sufficient quantity either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
   (d)   Any waters or waste having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the wastewater works;
   (e)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size as to be
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference
with the proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited
to, ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the
like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (f)   “Disposable wipes”, “flushable wipes”, “baby wipes” and similar named
products, other than standard toilet paper;
   (g)   Any waters or wastes having:
      (1)   A five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300 parts per
million by weight;
      (2)   More than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended solids; or
      (3)   An average daily flow greater than two percent of the average
sewage flow of the city, shall be subject to the review of the Superintendent.
   (h)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall
provide at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight;
      (2)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight; or
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes.
   (i)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until the approvals are obtained in writing; and
   (j)   Pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her
expense.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977; Ord. 1647, passed 5-5-2015)
§ 15-421 WASTEWATER DISCHARGES; LIMITATIONS.
   (a)   (1)   The following described substances, materials, waters or water
shall be limited in discharges to the sewerage system to concentrations or
quantities which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process
or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or will
not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance.
      (2)   The city may lower these limitations where necessary to meet the
above objectives. In forming an opinion as to acceptability, the city will give
consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to
flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, degree of treatability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant
and other pertinent factors.
   (b)   The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewater discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without the approval of the city are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oils or products of mineral oil
origin;
      (3)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat or
grease;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded (see §
15-402). Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes,
hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or
similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food in
kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when served by
caterers;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the city for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the city;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a slug
as defined herein;
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
      (10)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-422 DISCHARGE OF PROHIBITED MATERIALS; OPTIONS.
   (a)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewer, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
15-421 of this article, and which in the judgment of the city may have a
deleterious effect upon the wastewater facilities, processed, equipment or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to same or constitute a
public nuisance, the city may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment, under the provisions of §
15-427 of this article to cover added cost of handling and treating the wastes
not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.
   (b)   When considering the above alternatives, the city shall give
consideration to the economic impact of each alternative on the discharge. If
the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design
and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and
approval of the city.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-423 INTERCEPTORS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (a)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the city, such are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing floatable oils, fat or grease-in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units.
   (b)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the city,
and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. In maintaining these interceptors the owner(s) shall be responsible
for proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of captured material and
shall maintain records of the dates, and means of disposal which are subject to
review by the city. Any removal and hauling of collection materials not
performed by owner(s) personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste
disposal firms.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-424 OBSERVATION, SAMPLING, MEASURING DEVICES.
   (a)   When required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure
together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such
structures, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be
constructed in accordance with the plans approved by the city.
   (b)   The structure shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense
and shall be maintained so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-425 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   The city may require a user of sewer services to provide information needed
to determine compliance with this article. These requirements may include:
   (a)   Wastewaters discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
   (b)   Chemical analyses of wastewaters;
   (c)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
   (d)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid; sludge, oil, solvent or
other materials important to sewer use control;
   (e)   A plot plan of sewers of the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
   (f)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and/or
   (g)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-426 MEASUREMENT STANDARDS.
    All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater”, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, durations and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the city.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-427 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this article shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-428 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   No person(s) shall maliciously, willful or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any person(s) violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-429 INSPECTOR; POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The inspector and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing
pertinent to discharge to the community system in accordance with the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-430 SAME; CONFIDENTIAL DATA PROTECTED.
   The city is authorized to obtain information concerning industrial processes
which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the
wastewater collection system. The industry may withhold information considered
confidential. The industry must establish that revelation to the public of the
information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-431 SAME; LIABILITY OF CITY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
15-429 the inspector or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees, and
the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by
city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required in section 15-424.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-432 SAME; ENTRY OVER EASEMENTS.
   The inspector and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within the easements. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-433 VIOLATIONS; NOTICE.
   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this article except §
15-428 shall be notified in writing by the city, stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the initiation and
completion of the correction thereof. The notified person shall, within the
period of time stated in the notice, certify to the city that corrections have
been initiated.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-434 SAME; PENALTY; LIABILITY.
   (a)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
15-403 through 15-432 of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be fined a sum not to exceed $500 for each offense, at the
discretion of the court, and every such person shall be deemed guilty of a
separate offense for every day on which such violation shall continue.
   (b)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
15-403 through 15-432 of this article shall become liable to the city for any
expense incurred as a result of such violations.
   (c)   In cases of repeated violations, the city may revoke the permit for
the discharge of wastes into the sewer system, and effect the discontinuation
of water and sewer service or both.
(Ord. 786, passed 2-1-1977)
§ 15-435 GUARANTEES OF SEWER SERVICE.
   (a)   The city shall not be liable to any sewer customer for failure to
provide adequate sewer service or for damages resulting from sewer backups
unless the city is grossly or wantonly negligent or intends to create damages
to the sewer customer.
   (b)   The city does not guarantee the provision of adequate sewer service
through any of its mains and connecting services at any time except only when
its mains are in good working order to meet the usual demand of its customers.
(Ord. 1081, passed 9-18-1990)
§ 15-436 USERS CLASSIFIED.
   All users of the wastewater facilities of the city are hereby classified in
the following manner.
   (a)   Individual domestic. Individual domestic shall mean any single-family
residence, commercial business, office, institution, school, church or public
entity having an individual direct or indirect connection to the wastewater
facilities of the city and an individual city or private water service meter.
   (b)   Multi-domestic. Multi-domestic shall mean any multi-family residence,
apartment or mobile home and any commercial business, office, institution,
school, church or public entity having a direct or indirect connection to the
wastewater facilities of the city and not having an individual water service
meter, however served with city or private metered water by the owner of the
property on which it is located.
   (c)   Industrial. Industrial shall mean any individual business engaged in
the manufacturing or processing of one or more products, and in which
wastewaters are produced from such manufacturing or processing, which are
discharged, directly or indirectly, to the wastewater facilities of the city.
(Ord. 801, passed 6-21-1977)
§ 15-437 USE CHARGES; BASIS FOR CALCULATIONS.
   (a)   Generally. For the purposes of this article, CUSTOMER shall mean the
account holder assigned a city water meter (excluding irrigation only meters)
and having city wastewater service. For all residential and non-residential
customers of the city, except as provided under division (b) below, the basis
for the monthly use charges shall be the average monthly metered water
consumption for January, February and March each year, which shall be effective
from April 1 of the year until April 1 of the following year. New customers
shall be billed by the average for the same customer class, until an average
monthly metered water consumption for the January, February and March usages
can be established. When the city is unable to read the water meter within the
base period, the meter consumption shall be estimated based on the customer’s
prior history.
   (b)   Car washes.
      (1)   Where water consumption is totally or partially used for a car
wash, the basis for the monthly wastewater use charge shall be the average
monthly water consumption over the most recent six-month period, from the April
reading to the September reading, effective October 1 of each year, and from
the October reading to the March reading, effective April 1 of each year.
      (2)   If no average water consumption is available for the applicable
period, then the actual monthly water consumption shall be used for monthly
wastewater billing purposes until the applicable average water consumption can
be established.
(Ord. 1377, passed 4-2-2002; Ord. 1742, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 1784, passed 11-
15-2022; Ord. 1798, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 15-438 SCHEDULE OF RATES.
   All wastewater bills shall be paid monthly on or before the sixteenth day of
the month following the service rendered. The following rates shall be charged
for each water meter serving a customer:
   (a)   All city customers. The following is hereby established as rates for
wastewater service use by all customers within the city:
 
Customer charge: $25 per month
Use charge:      $3 per 1,000 gallons water use per month
 
   (b)   All rural customers. The following is hereby established as rates for
wastewater service use by all customers outside the city who also receive city
wastewater service:
 
Customer charge: $50 per month
Use charge:      $6 per 1,000 gallons water use per month
 
(Ord. 1239, passed 11-21-1995; Ord. 1296, passed 10-6-1998; Ord. 1742, passed
1-19-2021; Ord. 1784, passed 11-15-2022; Ord. 1798, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 15-439 SAME; EXTRA STRENGTH SURCHARGE.
   (a)   An extra strength surcharge is hereby established for those users who
produce wastewater with a five-day biochemical oxygen demand (B.O.D.) greater
than 300 milligrams per liter (mg/l) or a suspended solids (SS concentration in
excess of 350 mg/l).
   (b)   The surcharge shall be computed in accordance with the following
formula:
   S=Vw x 8.34 x $0.0946 (BOD-300) + $0.0565 (SS-350)
      Where:
         S = Surcharge in dollars monthly
         Vw = Volume of wastewater in million gallons per month
         8.34 = Unit weight of water in pounds per gallon
         $0.0946 = Unit charge for B.O.D. in dollars per pound
         BOD = five-day biochemical oxygen demand in milligrams per liter
         $0.0565 = Unit charge for SS in dollars per pound
         SS = Suspended solids concentration in milligrams per liter
         300 = Allowable B.O.D. in milligram per liter
         350 = Allowance SS in milligrams per liter
(Ord. 801, passed 6-21-1977)
§ 15-440 SAME; WATER FROM NON-CITY SOURCE.
   If any rural user obtains water from a source other than the city’s water
system, the charge to such user shall be based on the average monthly metered
water consumption by water customers during the months of January, February and
March.
(Ord. 801, passed 6-21-1977; Ord. 1742, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 1784, passed 11-
15-2022; Ord. 1798, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 15-441 SAME; EXCEPTION.
   Where no wastewater of any kind has been discharged into the wastewater
facilities, and the city’s water system has been disconnected from the premises
for the entire month, the user shall not receive the monthly billing for use of
the wastewater facilities.
(Ord. 801, passed 6-21-1977)
§ 15-442 BILLING PROCEDURE; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   Sewer bills and bills for industrial cost recovery charges shall be rendered
to the person or legal entity designated by the owner, his or her agent, tenant
or occupant to receive the water bill. Sewer bills shall be rendered monthly
and shall be due on the first day of each month. If any bill is not paid by the
fifteenth day of the month in which it becomes due, a written notice shall be
given of the city’s intention to disconnect water service to such premises if
the bill is not paid within ten days of such notice, and that if the bill is
not paid within ten days, the water service shall be disconnected and shall not
be reconnected until all past due bills for wastewater facilities service are
paid in full, together with a charge of $20 for reconnecting.
(Ord. 801, passed 6-21-1977)
§ 15-443 UNPAID CHARGES; PROPERTY LIENS.
   In the event any charges for the use of the city’s wastewater facilities are
not paid within the time and in the manner as provided by this chapter, the
City Clerk shall certify to the County Clerk of Pottawatomie County the legal
description of the real property enjoying the use and benefit of the wastewater
facilities, together with the amount of such charge or charges remaining
unpaid. Such amount shall be placed on the tax roll for collection, be subject
to the same penalties and be collected in like manner as are other taxes, and
shall become a lien upon the real property so served.
(Ord. 801, passed 6-21-1977)
ARTICLE 5: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
15-501   Definitions
   
15-502   Containers
   
15-503   Frequency of collection
   
15-504   Contracts
   
15-505   Refuse collectors; license required; exceptions
   
15-506   Licenses
   
15-507   Same; issuance
   
15-508   Same; fees
   
15-509   Age of licensee
   
15-510   Licensed vehicle standards
   
15-511   Parking exception
   
15-512   Rules and regulations
   
15-513   Leaf, limb and grass burn site; public use restrictions
   
15-514   Violations
§ 15-501 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Consists of all organic household waste, offal, animal and
vegetable matter such as has been prepared or intended to be used as food or
which shall have resulted from the preparation of food and like matter from
wholesale or retail grocers, warehouses, restaurants and all empty food
containers.
   REFUSE. Garbage and/or trash as defined in this section.
   TRASH. Consists of combustibles such as paper, cartons, boxes, wood, trees
and yard trimmings, beddings and non-combustibles including metals, tin cans,
glass and similar refuse; provided that TRASH shall not include earth and waste
from building operations or resulting from wash rack residue or sand
interceptor residue, felled trees, waste masonry, scrap lumber or large tree
limbs.
(Ord. 887, passed 2-16-1982)
§ 15-502 CONTAINERS.
   (a)   Each and every owner, tenant, housekeeper or other person or persons
occupying any dwelling house, apartment house or other buildings or portions
thereof, shall provide and renew when necessary a sufficient number of
containers to hold accumulated refuse thereat. All garbage containers shall be
metal or plastic construction, with substantial lids or covers which shall fit
close enough to retain all odors, and keep out flies, other insects and
rodents.
   (b)   Each and every owner, tenant, housekeeper or other person or persons
occupying any dwelling house, apartment house or other buildings or portions
thereof, shall provide and renew when necessary a sufficient number of
containers to hold trash accumulated thereat. The same containers may be used
for both trash and garbage if the containers are of tapered and watertight
metal or plastic construction with substantial lids or covers which fit close
enough to keep out flies, other insects and rodents.
(Ord. 836, passed 8-26-1979)
§ 15-503 FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
   (a)   Refuse shall be collected in all residential areas once a week,
weather permitting.
   (b)   Refuse shall be collected in business areas twice a week, weather
permitting; additional collections may be made at any business establishment
when it has been determined by the governing body that such collections are
necessary.
(Ord. 836, passed 8-26-1979)
§ 15-504 CONTRACTS.
   (a)   The city shall from time to time enter into contracts with individuals
or corporations for the removal of refuse in the city in accordance with K.S.A.
12-2101 and any amendments thereto.
   (b)   Contracts for the collection and disposal of refuse shall be awarded
only to refuse collectors licensed in accordance with this code.
(Ord. 836, passed 8-26-1979)
§ 15-505 REFUSE COLLECTORS; LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or corporations to collect, transport or
haul on any streets or alleys in the city or dispose of in any manner any
refuse accumulated in the city without first having obtained a refuse haulers
license as hereinafter set out. Provided that this section shall not be
construed to apply to the following:
   (a)   Sanitation department or other departments of the city;
   (b)   Any governmental agencies;
   (c)   Persons who collect and transport refuse produced on premises owned or
occupied by them;
   (d)   Builders, wrecking or demolition contractors or other persons engaged
in construction or similar occupations; and
   (e)   Persons, firms or corporations engaged in the occupations known as
tree trimmers or tree surgeons, agriculture, gardening, arboriculture,
horticulture, lawn care, landscaping, nursery work or similar occupations.
(Ord. 887, passed 2-16-1982)
§ 15-506 LICENSES.
   Each person or corporation required by this article to be licensed to
collect or remove refuse within the city shall make application for such
license to the City Clerk. A separate application shall be made for operation
of each refuse collection vehicle, which must comply with all pertinent Kansas
Department of Transportation motor vehicle carrier laws. The City Clerk shall
issue a license for operation of each vehicle, as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 887, passed 2-16-1982; Ord. 1764, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 15-507 SAME; ISSUANCE.
   The license required herein shall be issued by the City Clerk and shall be
signed by the Mayor and the City Clerk with the corporate seal of the city
affixed thereto and shall state the number of the license, name, address and
telephone number of the person or corporation to whom issued, the amount paid
for such license and the description of the vehicles to be operated by the
licensee.
(Ord. 887, passed 2-16-1982)
§ 15-508 SAME; FEES.
   (a)   The license fees shall be determined as follows:
      (1)   A fee of $50 shall be charged for the operation of each truck of
three-quarter ton or less; and
      (2)   A fee of $100 shall be charged for the operation of each truck in
excess of three-quarter ton.
   (b)   No license shall be issued for a smaller amount than the rates as
specified. Every license issued shall expire the following December 31.
(Ord. 887, passed 2-16-1982)
§ 15-509 AGE OF LICENSEE.
   No license required by this article shall be granted to any person under 18
years of age.
(Ord. 887, passed - -)
§ 15-510 LICENSED VEHICLE STANDARDS.
   The following standards and requirements are hereby established as the
minimum for the sanitary transportation of refuse:
   (a)   Every vehicle used for the transportation of refuse shall be included
in the license unless exempted as hereinbefore described;
   (b)   Construction of vehicles used shall be such that refuse loaded therein
or transported thereby shall be securely contained, and shall be similar to
those manufactured for refuse collection by the following manufacturers:
Garwood, Heil, Leach and Lionneway;
   (c)   All vehicles shall be equipped with a tight metal hood having adequate
openings with smooth operating loading and unloading doors. The metal hood
shall be similar in make and function to the metal hoods manufactured for
refuse trucks by Garwood, Heil, Leach, Loadmaster and Nuway; and
   (d)   Every vehicle used for transporting refuse shall carry an identifying
sign on each side. The sign shall be painted on the side of the vehicle with
letters no less than two inches high and one inch in width and shall be clearly
legible. A metal sign in lieu of a sign painted on each side of the vehicle
will be permitted if firmly affixed to the vehicle. The sign shall include the
name and telephone number under which the vehicle is licensed.
(Ord. 887, passed 2-16-1982)
§ 15-511 PARKING EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful to park a refuse collection truck on any street, alley
or upon private property within the city limits for any time exceeding 30
minutes, except that parking on private property shall be permitted where the
truck is located within a completely enclosed building and such use is located
within the I-P: Industrial Park Zoning District of the city.
(Ord. 1205, passed 6-21-1994)
§ 15-512 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The governing body shall have the power to establish such rules and
regulations by resolution as may be deemed necessary to make effective the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. 887, passed 2-16-1982)
§ 15-513 LEAF, LIMB AND GRASS BURN SITE; PUBLIC USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   The city may maintain a leaf, limb and grass burn site for use by city
residents and property owners for debris from within the city limits and the
city employees performing city duties, subject to the regulations and penalties
set forth under this article. Commercial arborists and landscapers are
prohibited from using the facility.
   (b)   Regulations. Disposal of plastic bags, trash and construction
materials is not permitted. Disposed limbs shall not exceed six inches in
diameter, nor have lengths exceeding five feet.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to dispose of any materials other than those
specified above.
(Ord. 1811, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 15-514 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction or a plea of guilty may be fined in any
sum less than $500 or by imprisonment for not more than six months or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 887, passed 2-16-1982; Ord. 1811, passed 11-19-2024)
ARTICLE 6: STORM WATER
Section
   
15-601   Storm water utility
   
15-602   Same; duties
   
15-603   Same; operating budget
   
15-604   Same; fees
   
15-605   Same; billing procedures
   
15-606   Same; enterprise fund
   
15-607   Same; easements
§ 15-601 STORM WATER UTILITY.
   There is hereby established a storm water utility, to assist the city in its
responsibility for the operation, construction, maintenance and repair of storm
water drainage system facilities, to provide for adequate collection,
conveyance, detention and release of storm water and the reduction of potential
hazards to property and life resulting from storm water runoff.
(Charter Ord. 16, passed 5-15-2004)
§ 15-602 SAME; DUTIES.
   The City Manager shall be authorized to administer the storm water utility
and may delegate such duty and responsibility as is necessary to carry out the
provisions of this article within the limits of the budget, directives and
storm drainage regulations adopted by the governing body for said utility. Such
duties and responsibilities are set forth as follows:
   (a)   To develop a storm drainage master plan for the city for the
construction, operation, reconstruction, repair and maintenance and update of
various facilities that make up the city’s existing and future storm drainage
system, including, but not limited to, curbs and gutters, storm drain inlets,
storm drain pipes, ditches, culverts, canals, detention basins, berms and
levees, subject to approval by the governing body;
   (b)   To develop and update a recommended five-year capital plan for needed
improvements to existing facilities, or for new facilities;
   (c)   To carry out a program of work as adopted by the governing body;
   (d)   To enforce all regulations pertaining to storm water including the
retention of or discharge from private property;
   (e)   To review private storm water systems as necessary to determine
compliance of such system with city requirements;
   (f)   To advise the governing body on matters relating to this utility; and
   (g)   To review plans and approve, deny, inspect and accept extensions and
connections to the system.
(Charter Ord. 16, passed 5-15-2004)
§ 15-603 SAME; OPERATING BUDGET.
   The city shall adopt an annual operating budget for the storm water utility,
setting forth the estimated revenues and expenses for operations and
maintenance, extension, replacement and debt service. The initial operating
budget shall be for the fiscal year commencing January 1, 2002.
(Charter Ord. 16, passed 5-15-2004)
§ 15-604 SAME; FEES.
   The following storm water fees are hereby established:
   (a)   Residential electric, water and/or sewer utility customers of the city
receiving service within the corporate limits of the city shall pay a fee of $2
per month; and
   (b)   Non-residential electric, water and/or sewer utility customers of the
city receiving service within the corporate limits of the city shall be charged
a storm water fee corresponding to the area of the lot or tract, or contiguous
lots or tracts owned, rented or leased by the customer, upon which such utility
service is received, in accordance with the following rate schedule:
Lot Size Category and Range Monthly Storm Water Fee
Lot Size Category and Range  Monthly Storm Water Fee
Under 10,000 square feet     $5.50
10,000 to 19,999 square feet $11
20,000 to 29,999 square feet $16.15
30,000 to 39,999 square feet $22
Over 40,000 square feet      $27.50
T*                           $5.50
*Category T customers are non-residential tenants of multi-occupancy lots or
tracts, where the landlord has a separate utility account and is charged a
storm water fee
 
(Charter Ord. 16, passed 5-15-2004; Charter Ord. 20, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 15-605 SAME; BILLING PROCEDURES.
   Billing for the storm water utility shall be as set forth under Article 1,
“General Provisions”, of this chapter, applicable to “utility services” defined
by §
15-102(c).
(Charter Ord. 16, passed 5-15-2004)
§ 15-606 SAME; ENTERPRISE FUND.
   (a)   All storm water utility fees collected shall be paid into an
enterprise fund hereby created, to be known as the Storm Water Utility Fund.
Such funds shall be used for paying the costs of operation, construction,
reconstruction, repair and maintenance of the storm water facilities of the
city and to carry out all other purposes of this utility. To the extent that
the storm water utility fees collected are insufficient to construct the needed
storm water drainage facilities, the costs of same may be paid from such city
funds as may be determined by the governing body, but the city may order
reimbursement of such Fund if additional fees are thereafter collected. When
the Fund has surplus dollars on hand in excess of current needs, the surplus
dollars shall be invested to return the highest yield consistent with proper
safeguards. Any interest earned on invested surplus dollars shall be placed in
the Storm Water Utility Fund.
   (b)   The fees and charges paid and other income received shall not be used
for general or other governmental or proprietary purposes of the city.
   (c)   Nothing in this Article shall be so construed as to limit or restrict
the planning, engineering, construction, reconstruction, repair, operation or
maintenance of storm water facilities through other means, including, but not
limited to, other city fees and taxes, grants, special improvement districts,
contributions from other agencies, interlocal cooperation agreements or private
contributions.
(Charter Ord. 16, passed 5-15-2004)
§ 15-607 SAME; EASEMENTS.
   The city’s “utility easements” shall not be construed as allowances for
construction and maintenance of storm water facilities. Easements for such
facilities must be specifically identified (e.g. “storm drainage easement).
(Charter Ord. 16, passed 5-15-2004)
CHAPTER XVI: ZONING AND PLANNING
   Article
      
1.   CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
      
2.   COMPREHENSIVE COMMUNITY PLAN
      
3.   RESERVED
      
4.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
5.   FLOOD REGULATIONS
      
6.   EARTH SHELTERED STRUCTURES
      
7.   AIRPORT ZONING
ARTICLE 1: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
16-101   Commission re-establishment
   
16-102   Membership, terms, interest and compensation
   
16-103   Meetings, officers and records
   
16-104   Powers and duties
   
16-105   Budget
§ 16-101 COMMISSION RE-ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby re-established the Wamego City Planning Commission which is
composed of seven members of which five members shall be residents of the city
and two members shall reside outside the city, but within the designated
planning area of the city which is within at least three miles of the corporate
limits of the city. The Planning Commission was originally created by ordinance
and codified in the 1974 code of ordinances, § 17-101.
§ 16-102 MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, INTEREST AND COMPENSATION.
   The Planning Commission members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
consent of the governing body at the first regular meeting of the governing
body in May of each year and take office at the next regular meeting of the
Commission. All members shall be appointed for staggered terms of three years
each. The appointments shall be so made that the terms of office of the members
residing outside of the corporate limits of the city do not expire within the
same year. By the re-establishment of the Commission, all current members
continue to serve their present terms of office. In case of death, incapacity,
resignation or disqualification of any member, appointment to such a vacancy on
the Commission shall be made of the unexpired term of the member leaving the
membership. Should any member have a conflict of interest, either directly or
indirectly, in any matter coming before the Commission, he or she shall be
disqualified to discuss or vote on the matter. The governing body may adopt
rules and regulations providing for removal of members of the Commission.
Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for expenses actually incurred in the performance of their duties as
deemed desirable by the governing body.
(Ord. 1104, passed 8-6-1991)
§ 16-103 MEETINGS, OFFICERS AND RECORDS.
   The members of the Planning Commission shall meet at such time and place as
may be fixed in the Commission’s bylaws. The Commission shall elect one member
as Chairperson and one member as Vice Chairperson who shall serve one year and
until their successors have been elected. A secretary shall also be elected who
may or may not be a member of the Commission. Special meetings may be called at
any time by the Chairperson, or in the Chairperson’s absence, by the Vice
Chairperson. The Commission shall adopt bylaws for the transaction of business
and hearing procedures. All actions by the Commission shall be taken by a
majority vote of the entire membership of the Commission; except that, a
majority of the members present and voting at the hearing shall be required to
recommend approval or denial of an amendment to the zoning regulations, a
rezoning amendment or a special use permit. A proper record of all the
proceedings of the Commission shall be kept. The Commission, from time to time,
may establish subcommittees, advisory committees or technical committees to
advise or assist in the activities of the Commission.
§ 16-104 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The governing body and Planning Commission shall have all the rights, powers
and duties as authorized in K.S.A. 12-741 et seq., and amendments thereto,
which are hereby incorporated by reference as part of this section and shall be
given full force and effect as if the same had been fully set forth. The
Commission is hereby authorized to make or cause to be made, adopted and
maintained a comprehensive plan for the city and any unincorporated territory
lying outside of the city but within Pottawatomie County in which the city is
located, which in the opinion of the Commission forms the total community of
which the city is a part. The Commission shall also cause to be prepared,
adopted and maintained zoning and subdivision regulations on all land within
the jurisdiction designated by the governing body. The comprehensive plan and
zoning and subdivision regulations are subject to final approval of the
governing body by ordinance. Periodically, the governing body may request the
Commission to undertake other assignments related to planning and land use
regulations.
§ 16-105 BUDGET.
   The governing body shall approve a budget for the Planning Commission and
make such allowances to the Commission as it deems proper, including funds for
the employment of such employees or consultants as the governing body may
authorize and provide, and shall add the same to the general budget. Prior to
the time that monies are available under the budget, the governing body may
appropriate monies for such purposes from the General Fund. The governing body
may enter into such contracts as it deems necessary and may receive and expend
funds and monies from the state or federal government or from any other
resource for such purposes.
ARTICLE 2: COMPREHENSIVE COMMUNITY PLAN
Section
   
16-201   Adoption of Comprehensive Community Plan by reference
§ 16-201 ADOPTION OF COMPREHENSIVE COMMUNITY PLAN BY REFERENCE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference Section 1 through 8 and Appendixes
A and B of the document known as the “City of Wamego, Kansas, Comprehensive
Community Plan, 2023 Edition” prepared at the direction of the Wamego City
Planning Commission by Wilson & Company, Engineers & Architects, Salina, Kansas
and the Wamego City Staff. Not less than three copies of the Plan shall be
marked or stamped “Official Copy as Adopted by Ordinance No. 1801,” and filed
with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public at all
reasonable business hours.
(Ord. 1750, passed 4-6-2021; Ord. 1766, passed 3-15-2022; Ord. 1790, passed 4-
4-2023; Ord. 1801, passed 3-19-2024)
ARTICLE 3: RESERVED
ARTICLE 4: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
16-401   Regulations incorporated
§ 16-401 REGULATIONS INCORPORATED.
   The Subdivision Regulations portion of the document known as “Zoning
Ordinance and Subdivision Regulations for the City of Wamego, Kansas, Edition
of 1992” the same incorporated by reference under Ord. 1117 of the City of
Wamego, Kansas, is hereby retained, along with subsequent amendments thereto.
Not less than three copies of said Zoning Ordinance Edition of 2016 and
retained Subdivision Regulations shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as
Incorporated by Ord. 1663 (Zoning Ordinance) and Ord. 1117 (Subdivision
Regulations)”, as provided by law, with all sections or portions thereof
intended to be amended, modified or omitted clearly marked to show any such
change or omission or showing the sections, articles, chapters, parts or
portions that are incorporated, as the case may be, and to which shall be
attached a copy of the incorporating ordinance, and filed with the City Clerk
to be open to inspection and available to the public at all reasonable business
hours.
(Ord. 1117, passed 6-2-1992; Ord. 1663, passed 10-4-2016)
ARTICLE 5: FLOOD REGULATIONS
Section
   
16-501   Incorporation of floodplain management ordinance
§ 16-501 INCORPORATION OF FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE.
   (a)   Pursuant to the provisions of K.S.A. 12-3009, 12-3010 and 12-3301,
there is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of providing
floodplain zoning regulations within the City of Wamego, and the City of Wamego
Extraterritorial Zoning Jurisdiction, all of the zoning regulations contained
in the document known and referred to as the “City of Wamego Floodplain
Management Ordinance, Edition of 2021”, which is based upon and modeled after
the Model Floodplain Management Ordinance as approved and recommended by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency Region VII and the Kansas Department of
Agriculture, Division of Water Resources, Floodplain Program.
   (b)   No fewer than three copies of the “City of Wamego Floodplain
Management Ordinance, Edition of 2021” shall be marked or stamped “Official
Copy as incorporated by Ord. 1759 of the City of Wamego, Kansas”, and such
copies shall be filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and
available to the public at all reasonable business hours.
(Ord. 1759, passed 9-21-2021; Ord. 1775, passed 9-6-2022; Ord. 1779, passed 10-
4-2022; Ord. 1780, passed 10-11-2022)
ARTICLE 6: EARTH SHELTERED STRUCTURES
Section
   
16-601   Earth sheltered structures
   
16-602   Same; review required
§ 16-601 EARTH SHELTERED STRUCTURES.
   Earth sheltered and partially earth sheltered buildings or structures shall
be used for single-family dwellings only, in districts where single-family
dwellings are a permitted use.
(Ord. 861, passed 6-17-1980)
§ 16-602 SAME; REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Before any earth sheltered or partially earth sheltered building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged, plans for such building or
structure shall be submitted to the building inspector for review and approval.
Such plans as submitted to the building inspector, shall have the approval of a
registered architect endorsed thereon or affixed thereto. In reviewing such
plans, the building inspector shall take into consideration the intent and
purpose of the district in which the building or structure is to be erected,
altered or enlarged and the exterior architectural and aesthetic appeal of the
proposed building or structure in relation to the character of the neighborhood
in which it is to be situated.
(Ord. 861, passed 6-17-1980)
ARTICLE 7: AIRPORT ZONING
Section
   
16-701   Adoption of Wamego Municipal Airport Zoning Ordinance by reference
   
16-702   Airport Zoning Commission
§ 16-701 ADOPTION OF WAMEGO MUNICIPAL AIRPORT ZONING ORDINANCE BY REFERENCE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference that certain Wamego Municipal
Airport Zoning Ordinance and accompanying Wamego Municipal Airport Vicinity
Zoning map, recommended by the Wamego Planning Commission in its final report,
approved November 16, 1998 and prepared pursuant to K.S.A. 3-703 et seq. No
less than three copies of the Airport Zoning Ordinance and map shall be marked
or stamped “Official Copy as Incorporated by Ord. 1300”, with all sections or
portions thereof intended to be amended, modified or omitted clearly marked to
show any such change or omission and showing the sections or portions thereof
that are incorporated, to which shall be attached a copy of the incorporating
ordinance, and filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available
to the public at all reasonable business hours.
(Ord. 1300, passed 12-1-1998)
§ 16-702 AIRPORT ZONING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission is hereby designated as the Wamego Municipal Airport
Zoning Commission, for the purpose of making recommendations to the governing
body regarding possible amendments to the Wamego Municipal Airport Zoning
Ordinance or Wamego Municipal Airport Vicinity Zoning map, pursuant to K.S.A.
3-705(2).
(Ord. 1300, passed 12-1-1998)
CHAPTER XVII: ZONING
Article
      
1.   TITLE
      
2.   INTERPRETATION, SCOPE AND JURISDICTION
      
3.   RULES AND DEFINITIONS
      
4.   DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES
      
5.   “A-L” AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
      
6.   “F-P” FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT
      
7.   “R-L” RESIDENTIAL LOW- DENSITY DISTRICT
      
8.   “R-M” RESIDENTIAL MEDIUM DENSITY DISTRICT
      
9.   “R-H” HISTORIC TOWNSITE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
      
9-A.   “RH-O” HISTORIC TOWNSITE RESIDENTIAL OVERLAY DISTRICT
      
10.   “R-1" SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
      
11.   “R-2" TWO-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
      
12.   “R-3" MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
      
13.   “PUD” PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
      
14.   “M-H” MANUFACTURED HOME OVERLAY DISTRICT
      
15.   “M-P” MANUFACTURED HOME PARK
      
16.   “P-I” PUBLIC AND INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT
      
17.   “C-S” HIGHWAY SERVICE DISTRICT
      
18.   “C-1" RETAIL BUSINESS DISTRICT
      
19.   “C-2" GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
      
20.   “C-3" ADULT ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICT
      
21.   “I-P” INDUSTRIAL PARK DISTRICT
      
22.   “I-1" LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
      
23.   “I-2" HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
      
24.   SIGN REGULATIONS
      
25.   PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
      
26.   LANDSCAPING AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS
      
27.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
28.   BUILDINGS AND USES AFFECTED
      
29.   ADDITIONAL HEIGHT, AREA AND USE REGULATIONS
      
30.   SITE PLAN REVIEW
      
31.   NON-CONFORMING USES
      
32.   ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATION AND PENALTY
      
33.   BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
      
34.   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
      
35.   AMENDMENTS
      
36.   VALIDITY
      
37.   CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL
ARTICLE 1: TITLE
Section
   
17-101   Title
§ 17-101 TITLE.
   This Title XVII shall be known and may be cited as the Zoning Ordinance for
the City of Wamego, Kansas, and shall repeal Ordinance No. 1433 and subsequent
amendments.
ARTICLE 2: INTERPRETATION, SCOPE AND JURISDICTION
Section
   
17-201   Interpretation
   
17-202   Jurisdiction
   
17-203   Scope
§ 17-201 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this Title, the provisions of this
Title shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of
the public health, safety, and welfare. Where this Title imposes a greater
restriction upon land, buildings, or structures than is imposed or required by
existing provisions of law, ordinance, contract or deed, or resolution, the
provisions of this Title shall govern.
§ 17-202 JURISDICTION.
   This Title shall be applicable to the Wamego Zoning Jurisdiction, defined as
all land situated within the City of Wamego, Kansas, and all land situated
outside the corporate limits of the City of Wamego, but within the following
described boundaries:
Beginning at the intersection of the West Boundary of the Old Pottawatomie
Indian Reservation and the main channel of the Kansas River, said channel
forming the southerly boundary of Pottawatomie County, Kansas; Thence upstream
along said main channel, to the South line of Section 8, Township 10 South,
Range 10 East of the 6th P.M.; Thence West along said South line, to the West
line of said Section 8; Thence North along said West line, to the Northwest
corner of said Section 8; Thence West along the South line of Section 6,
Township 10 South, Range 10 East of the 6th P.M., to the Southwest corner of
said Section 6; Thence West along the South line of Section I, Township 10
South, Range 9 East of the 6th P.M., to the southeast corner of the John Chmiel
tract, as recorded in Book 229 and Page 185 at the Pottawatomie County, Kansas,
Register of Deeds, said corner being 139.16 feet East of the Southwest corner
of the Southeast Quarter of said Section 1; Thence North along the East line of
said Chmiel tract 468.41 feet, to the Northeast corner of said Chmiel tract;
Thence West along the North line of said Chmiel tract 466.55 feet, to the
Northwest corner of said Chmiel tract, the same being the Southwest corner of
the Ronald Wilson tract, as recorded in Book 244 and Page 340 at the
Pottawatomie County, Kansas, Register of Deeds; Thence North along the West
line of said Wilson tract 860 feet, more or less, to the Northwest corner of
said Wilson tract; Thence East along the North line of said Wilson tract 330
feet, more or less, to the West line of the Southeast Quarter of said Section
1; Thence North along the West line of the Southeast Quarter of said Section 1,
to the Northwest corner of the Southeast Quarter of said Section 1; Thence East
along the North line of the Southeast Quarter of said Section 1, to the
Northeast corner of the Southeast Quarter of said Section 1; Thence East along
the North line of the Southwest Quarter of Section 6, Township 10 South, Range
10 East of the 6th P.M., to the Center Corner of said Section 6; Thence North
along the West line of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 6 to the Southwest
Corner of the Southeast Quarter of Section 31, Township 9 South, Range 10 East
of the 6th P.M.; Thence North along the West line of the Southeast Quarter of
said Section 31, and along the West line of the South half of the Northeast
Quarter of said Section 31, to the Northwest Corner of said South half of the
Northeast Quarter; Thence East along the North line of said South half of the
Northeast Quarter to the Northeast Corner of said South half of the Northeast
Quarter; Thence South along the East line of said South half of the Northeast
Quarter and along the East line of the Southeast Quarter of said Section 31, to
the Northwest corner of said Section 5; Thence East along the North line of
said Section 5 and along the North line of Section 4 and Section 3, Township 10
South, Range 10 East of the 6th P.M., to the West Boundary of the Old
Potawatomi Indian Reservation; Thence South along said West Boundary, to the
Point of Beginning.
§ 17-203 SCOPE.
   Except for floodplain regulations in areas designated as a floodplain
district, the regulations contained in this Title shall not apply to the use of
land under one ownership in excess of three acres which is used for
agricultural purposes.
ARTICLE 3: RULES AND DEFINITIONS
Section
   
17-301   Rules
   
17-302   Definitions
   
17-303   Corner lot sight control triangle
   
17-304   Block diagram
§ 17-301 RULES.
   For the purpose of this Title, the following rules shall apply:
   (a)   Words and numbers used singularly shall include the plural. Words and
numbers used plural shall include the singular. Words used in the present tense
shall include the future.
   (b)   The word "persons" includes a corporation, members of a partnership or
other business organization, a committee, board, trustee, receiver, commission
agent, or other representative.
   (c)   The word "shall" is mandatory.
   (d)   The words "use", "used", "occupied", as applied to any land or
building, shall be construed to include the words "intended", "arranged", or
"designed" to be used or occupied.
§ 17-302 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of interpreting the provisions of this Title, certain terms
or words used herein are defined as follows:
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building or portion of the main building,
the use of which customarily is incidental to that of the main building or to
the main use of the premises. For the purposes of this Title, the term
accessory building shall include dish antennas and similar structures.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use of land customarily incidental and subordinate to the
use of the principal building on the same lot or tract.
   ADULT. Any person aged 18 years or older.
   ADULT BOOK and/or VIDEO STORE. An establishment which offers for sale or
rental books, magazines, photographs, films, videos, or other visual
representations, and other materials oriented toward representation of sexual
activity of any kind.
   ADULT DAY CARE. A facility of one of the following types offering adult care
for less than 24 hours per day.
      (1)   MEDICAL MODEL ADULT DAY CARE. An outpatient center for people in
need of physical rehabilitation or other health services on a limited yet
regular basis. Meals and limited social activity may be provided, but the
primary emphasis of this approach to day care is a strong health care
orientation.
      (2)   MULTIPURPOSE MODEL ADULT DAY CARE. A center for programs which
provide social interaction and some social and medical services to elderly
people in a fixed location for a limited number of hours.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. Any premises which provides adult
sexually oriented entertainment whether live or by motion pictures, videos,
photographic reproductions, or other means.
   ADULT NOVELTY STORE. A commercial establishment offering for sale visual
materials, printed matter, instruments, devices and other paraphernalia
designed and intended for use in connection with sexual activities.
   AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES. The use of a tract of land under one ownership where
the principal activity is to produce income from the growing of crops,
horticulture, nurseries, truck farms, or the raising of fish, poultry, and
cattle or other livestock, including commercial feed lots. Such definition
includes the structures necessary for carrying on farming operations and, as
accessory uses, the dwelling(s) of those owning and/or operating the premises,
including single-wide manufactured homes. The retail sale of items produced as
part of the farming operation is permitted, including the operation of
commercial greenhouses and hydroponic farming. So long as such land, related
structures and accessory dwelling(s) are used for such bona fide agricultural
purposes, these regulations do not require a zoning permit or an occupancy
certificate, nor do they establish any other rule or regulations contrary to
the provisions of state statutes.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare which provides only a secondary means of access
to abutting property, the right-of-way of which is 20 feet or less in width.
   ALLEY LINE. The line of division between the public travelway comprising the
alley and the private lot.
   ALTERATIONS. (See STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS.)
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL or CLINIC. An establishment where animals are admitted
principally for examination, treatment, board, or care by a doctor of
veterinary medicine. This does not include open kennels or runs.
   APARTMENT. (See DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY.)
   APPROVED PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM. A sewage disposal plant, main
sanitary sewer lines and other lines approved by the Governing Body of the City
of Wamego, Kansas and the Kansas State Department of Health.
   APPROVED PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. Water treatment plant and service lines
approved by the Governing Body of the City of Wamego, Kansas and the Kansas
State Department of Health.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. Any place or facility caring for six or more
individuals not related within the third degree of relationship to the
administrator, operator or owner by blood or marriage and who, by choice or due
to functional impairments, may need personal care and may need supervised
nursing care to compensate for activities of daily living limitations and in
which the place or facility includes apartments for residents and provides or
coordinates a range of services including personal care or supervised nursing
care available 24 hours a day, seven days a week for the support of resident
independence. The provision of skilled nursing procedures to a resident in an
assisted living facility is not prohibited by this act. Generally, the skilled
services provided in an assisted living facility shall be provided on an
intermittent or limited term basis, or if limited in scope, a regular basis.
   ATTACHED ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building which has approximately 50% of any
way in common with a wall or portion of a principal building or is built as an
integral part of the principal building.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A structure and surrounding land used for the
storage and sale of petroleum fuel, including self-service, primarily to
passenger vehicles and/or for accessory uses, such as the sale of lubricants,
accessories, or supplies; the incidental washing of motor vehicles, and the
performing of minor repairs; but not including tire recapping, body repairs,
major overhaul, or open sales lots.
   BASEMENT. A building story having part, but not less than one-half, of its
height below grade, and which is intended as the lower floor of a conventional
dwelling unit, as opposed to the structural walls of an earth sheltered
dwelling unit.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A private home that takes in paying overnight quests, and
offers breakfast in the morning and optional other refreshments, included in
the price of the room. The bed and breakfast must be operated primarily by the
residents of the home and limited to no more than four guest bedrooms, with
shared or private bathrooms. For the purpose of regulation according to this
Zoning Ordinance, a bed and breakfast shall not be considered a HOME
OCCUPATION.
   BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. The legally appointed municipal board empowered to
hear and decide appeals from, and to provide interpretations of, the terms of
the Zoning Ordinance and official map, as defined within this Title, and in
accordance with the laws of the State of Kansas.
   BOARDING HOME FOR CHILDREN. A residential facility where children not
related to the family by blood, marriage, or adoption are cared for 24 hours a
day by adult supervision which is licensed by the Kansas Department of Health
and Environment.
   BOARDINGHOUSE. A building other than a hotel where, for compensation and by
prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and meals are provided
for three or more persons but not exceeding 20 persons.
   BUILDABLE AREA. That area of a parcel or lot within which a structure can be
constructed without conflicting with any requirements established by these
regulations.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed or intended for the enclosure, shelter, or
protection of persons, animals, or property. When a structure is divided into
separate parts by unpierced walls from the ground up, each part is deemed a
separate building.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical dimension measured from the average elevation
of the finished lot grade at the front of the building to the highest point of
a flat roof; to the deck line of a mansard roof; and to the average height
between the plate and ridge of a gable, hip, or gambrel roof.
   BUILDING MAIN. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot
or parcel upon which it is situated. Every dwelling in a residential district
is a main building.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The person or persons so designated by the Governing
Body.
   BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. The office of an architect, engineer,
dentist, doctor, attorney, real estate or insurance agent, or other similar
professional person, and any office used primarily for accounting,
correspondence, research, editing, or administration.
   CAMPGROUNDS. Any parcel of ground which provides space for transient
occupancy and is used or intended to be used for the parking of one or more
camping trailers, tents, or similar recreational vehicles. No camper shall
occupy a campground for a period exceeding 30 consecutive days on a temporary
basis. The term campgrounds does not include sales lots of which unoccupied
camping trailers, whether new or used, are parked for the purpose of storage,
inspection or sale.
   CANOPY. Any structure, movable or stationary, attached to and deriving its
support from framework or posts or other means independent of a connected
structure for the purpose of shielding a platform, stoop, or sidewalk from the
elements, or a roof-like structure of a permanent nature which projects from
the wall of a structure and overhangs the public-way.
   CAR WASH. An establishment having facilities designed or used exclusively
for washing or cleaning motor vehicles.
   CATERING BUSINESS. An enterprise wherein food and refreshments are prepared
at a premises and delivered for consumption at a site off the premises, as
opposed to the delivery of said items at the premises. The business must meet
State of Kansas licensing requirements. A catering business shall only be
permitted in districts where a "restaurant" is permitted as a use by right,
except that where the business is allowed by special use permit it may be
conducted in a private home, providing it is operated primarily by the
residents of the home. For the purpose of regulation according to this Zoning
Ordinance, a catering business shall not be considered a HOME OCCUPATION.
   CELLAR. A room having more than one-half of its height below grade which
structure is not intended as the lower floor of a conventional dwelling unit.
   CHILD CARE. The process of caring for unrelated minor children as a service
with or without financial arrangements. Child care shall include the term
"babysitting" but shall not include preschools. Also see DAY NURSERY.
   CLINIC. (See MEDICAL, DENTAL, or HEALTH CLINIC).
   CLUB or LODGE. A nonprofit association or organization formed for either
fraternal, social, educational, philanthropic, or other similar purposes,
including unions and professional organizations.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. An area of land or water or combination thereof planned
for passive or active recreation, but does not include areas utilized for
streets, alleys, driveways or private roads, off-street parking or loading
areas. However, the area of recreational activities, such as swimming pools,
tennis courts, shuffleboard courts, etc., may be included as common open space.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The duly adopted comprehensive plan for the development
of the community which includes maps, charts, illustrations, and texts for the
following:
      (1)   Land use studies.
      (2)   Goals and objectives.
      (3)   Population study and forecasts.
      (4)   Economic base study.
      (5)   Housing study.
      (6)   Major thoroughfare plan.
      (7)   Central Business District plan.
      (8)   Community facilities study.
      (9)   General development plan.
   CONDOMINIUM. A multiple-family dwelling structure wherein the separate
dwelling units are individually owned as opposed to rental units in an
apartment.
   DAY CARE. A facility of one of the following types, offering child care for
less than 24 hours per day:
      (1)   LICENSED DAY CARE HOME. A home in which care is provided for a
maximum of ten children under 14 years of age, not more than six of whom are
under kindergarten age. This total includes children under 14 years of age
related to the provider.
      (2)   GROUP DAY CARE HOME. A home in which care is provided for a maximum
of 12 children under 14 years of age. This total includes children under 14
years of age related to the provider.
      (3)   REGISTERED FAMILY DAY CARE HOME. A family's own residence in which
care is provided by the applicant for not more than six children from birth to
16 years of age, with not more than three children under 18 months of age. All
children under 16 years of age related to the provider are included in the
total.
      (4)   CHILD CARE CENTER. A facility in which care and educational
activities are provided for 13 or more children, two weeks to 16 years of age,
for more than three hours and less than 24 hours per day, including daytime,
evening, and nighttime care, or which provides before and after school care for
school-age children. A facility may have fewer than 13 children and be licensed
as a center if the program and building meet child care center regulations.
      (5)   PRESCHOOL. A facility operating for less than 24 hours per day
which:
         (A)   Provides learning experiences for children who have not attained
the age of eligibility to enter kindergarten as prescribed in K.S.A. 72-1107(c)
and any amendment thereto, and who are 30 months of age or older; or
         (B)   Conducts sessions not exceeding three hours per session.
   DEVELOPER. The legal or beneficial owner or owners of all of the land
proposed to be included in a planned development or the duly authorized agent
thereof. The holder of an option or contract of purchase, a lessee having a
remaining term of not less than 40 years, or other person having an enforceable
proprietary interest in such land, shall be deemed to be a developer for the
purpose of these regulations.
   DISTRICT. A section or sections of the city for which the regulations
governing the use of buildings and premises, the height of buildings, the size
of yards, and the intensity of use are uniform.
   DOG. Any canine species over 12 months of age.
   DUMP. A lot or parcel of land used primarily for the disposal, abandonment,
dumping, burial, or burning of garbage, sewage, trash, refuse, junk, discarded
machinery or motor vehicles or parts thereof, or other waste.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof which is designed and used
exclusively for residential purposes.
   DWELLING, ATTACHED. A residential building which is joined to another
dwelling at one or more sides by a party wall or walls, situated on its own
platted lot.
   DWELLING, DETACHED. A residential building which is entirely surrounded by
open space on the same lot.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building having accommodations for and occupied
exclusively by more than two families. This may include modular homes,
multiple-family.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building having accommodations for and occupied
exclusively by one family. This may include modular homes, single-family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY (DUPLEX). A building having accommodations for and
occupied exclusively by two families. This may include modular homes, two-
family.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms with culinary and sanitary
facilities which are designed or intended for occupancy by a single family.
   EXCEPTION. An exception shall mean the allowance of a use within a given
district by the Board of Zoning Appeals. Exceptions shall be limited to only
those specifically authorized and listed in this Zoning Ordinance.
   FAMILY. Either: (a) an individual or two or more persons related by blood,
marriage, or adoption living together as a single housekeeping unit in a
dwelling unit; or (b) a group of not more than four persons who need not be
related by blood, marriage, or adoption living together as a single
housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit; plus, in either case, domestic servants.
A family may include any number of gratuitous guests or minor children not
related by blood, marriage or adoption.
   FENCE. A free-standing structure of metal, masonry, plastic, glass or wood
or any combination thereof resting on or partially buried in the ground and
rising above ground level and used for confinement, screening, or partition
purposes.
   FLOODPLAIN. Land area subject to inundation from surplus storm water as
defined by the HUD flood insurance study and as depicted on the flood insurance
rate map for the community.
   FLOOR AREA. Floor area shall mean the gross floor area of the building of
the several floors in the building.
   FOSTER HOME. A residence or building in which more than 12 hour care is
provided to no more than five children, two or more of which are unrelated to
the foster parents. Foster homes shall be permitted in all residential
structures, the same as would a family.
   FRATERNAL and/or SERVICE CLUBS. An association formally organized for either
fraternal, social, educational, philanthropic, or other similar purposes,
including union and professional organizations, and operated not for profit for
persons who are bona fide members paying annual dues, which owns, hires, or
leases premises, the use of which premises is restricted to such members and
their guests. The affairs and management of such association are conducted by a
board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members
at their annual meeting. Food, meals, and beverages may be served on such
premises provided adequate dining space and kitchen facilities are available.
Alcoholic beverages may be sold or served to members and their guests provided
such service is secondary and incidental to the promotion of some other common
objective of the organization, and further provided that such sale or service
of alcoholic beverages is in compliance with all federal, state, county and
local laws.
   FRONTAGE. All property on one side of a street between two intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating) measured along the line of the street. Where
a street is dead ended, the frontage shall be considered as all that property
abutting on one side between an intersecting street and the dead end of the
street.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building designed or used for the storage of
not more than four motor-driven vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the
building to which it is accessory.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building, or portion thereof, other than a private or
storage garage, designed or used for equipping, repairing, hiring, servicing,
selling, or storing motor-driven vehicles.
   GARAGE, STORAGE. A building, or portion thereof, designed or used
exclusively for housing four or more motor driven vehicles.
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Commission of the City of Wamego, Kansas.
   GRADE.
      (1)   For buildings having walls facing one street, the elevation of the
sidewalk at the center of the wall facing the street shall be the grade. If no
sidewalk is present, the grade shall be the average elevation between the crown
of the adjacent street and the center of the wall facing the street.
      (2)   For buildings having walls facing more than one street, the grade
shall be the average of the grades (as defined in division (1) above) of all
walls facing each street.
      (3)   For buildings having no wall facing a street, the average level of
the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the
building shall be the grade.
      (4)   Any wall approximately parallel to a street line is considered as
facing the street.
   GROUP HOME. Any dwelling occupied by not more than ten persons, including
eight or fewer persons with a disability who need not be related by blood or
marriage, and not to exceed two staff residents who need not be related by
blood or marriage to each other or to the residents of the home, which dwelling
is licensed by a regulatory agency of this state.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any lawful activity conducted within the principal building
(dwelling) or accessory buildings by members of the immediate family residing
on the premises and which is located in an agricultural or residential zone for
the purpose of earning income, which requires personal appearances by customers
or delivery of their personal property at the dwelling for the purpose of
providing goods and/or services. See Article 29 of this Title for specific home
occupation requirements.
      (1)   The following uses shall not in any event be considered home
occupations within this definition:
         (A)   Funeral homes.
         (B)   Restaurants.
         (C)   Grocery stores.
         (D)   Stables, animal kennels, or hospitals.
         (E)   Tourist accommodations including bed and breakfast
establishments.
         (F)   Rent of trailers or equipment.
         (G)   Auto and other vehicle repair.
   HOSPITAL. An establishment used primarily for inpatient care and to provide
health, medical, mental, and surgical care of the sick or injured, excluding
animal hospitals.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A commercial building used as a temporary abiding place for
persons who are being lodged for compensation with or without meals.
   INSTITUTION OF HIGHER LEARNING. A college, university, or incorporated
academy providing general academic instruction equivalent to the standards
prescribed by the State Board of Education. Dormitories, fraternity houses,
sorority houses, and other student housing, which are constructed on campus,
shall be considered accessory buildings.
   INSTITUTION (NONPROFIT). A building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or a
nonprofit establishment for public use.
   JUNK or SALVAGE YARD. A lot, parcel, or tract of land, including buildings,
used primarily for the collection, storage, and sale of waste paper, rags,
scrap metal, or other discarded material; or for the collection, dismantling,
storage, and salvaging of machinery or vehicles not in running condition or for
the sale of parts thereof.
   KENNEL. Any place, area, building, structure, or enclosure where more than
two domesticated animals, commonly considered to be household pets, more than
three months old, are boarded, cared for, housed, fed, trained, or bred. This
definition includes both private and commercially operated facilities.
   LABORATORY, MEDICAL. An establishment which provides bacteriological,
biological, medical, X-ray, pathological, and other similar analytical or
diagnostic services.
   LANDSCAPING. The improvement of a lot, parcel, or tract of land with grass
and shrubs and/or trees. Landscaping may include pedestrian walks, flower beds,
and ornamental objects such as fountains, statuary, and other similar natural
and artificial objects designed and arranged to produce an aesthetically
pleasing effect.
   LAUNDRY. An establishment where commercial laundry and dry-cleaning work is
undertaken.
   LAUNDRY (SELF-SERVICE). An establishment equipped with individual coin-
operated washing, drying, or dry-cleaning machines.
   LODGING HOUSE. A residential building or place where lodging is provided (or
which is equipped regularly to provide lodging) by pre-arrangement for definite
periods, for compensation, for three or more persons in contra-distinction to
hotels open to transients.
   LOT or PLOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by one main
building, together with its accessory buildings, including the open spaces
required by this Title. A lot or plot may include more than one platted lot.
   LOT AREA. The total area within the property lines of the lot, plot, or
tract.
   LOT CORNER. A lot, as defined above, abutting upon two or more streets at
their intersection. (See §
17-303.)
   LOT COVERAGE. The total area of building expressed as a percentage of the
total lot, plot, or tract. Includes both principal and accessory buildings.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front and the rear
lot lines. (See §
17-304.)
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a frontage on two non-intersecting
streets as distinguished from a corner lot. (See §
17-304.)
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot which has frontage on one
street only. (See §
17-304.)
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the office of the register of deeds, or a lot described by
metes and bounds, the description of which has been recorded in the office of
the register of deeds.
   LOT, WIDTH OF.  The length of the front building setback line.
   LOT, ZONING. A parcel or tract of land used, developed, or built upon as a
unit under single ownership or control. Said parcel or tract may consist of one
or more platted lots of record, one or more portions of a lot or lots of
record, or any combination thereof.
   MANUFACTURE. Any method of processing, developing, fabricating, or
assembling either raw materials, semi-finished materials, or parts into a semi-
finished or finished product.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory-built structure or structures equipped with the
necessary utility service connections and made so as to be transportable as a
unit or units on its or their own running gear and designed to be used as a
dwelling unit irrespective of how affixed to the land. The transportation
system is designed so that the manufactured home may be moved from time to
time. The term shall include two or more separately towed units which, when
bolted or otherwise fastened together, form a complete living unit. Such homes
are built on a chassis consisting of drawbar and coupling mechanism, frame
(e.g., steel I-beams), running gear assembly, and lights. Removal of any or all
of these component parts does not change the definition. All manufactured homes
shall be either skirted or placed on a permanent-type, enclosed perimeter
foundation and, according to standards of the State of Kansas, shall be
anchored to the ground. All manufactured homes intended for new installation in
the zoning jurisdiction of the City of Wamego after the effective date of this
Title shall bear a certification plate pursuant to the "National Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974", 4Z U.S.C. 5401 et seq.,
as amended.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, DEPENDENT. A manufactured home which does not have a
flush toilet and bath or shower.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, INDEPENDENT. A manufactured home which has a flush toilet
and a bath or shower.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any area, parcel, or tract of ground equipped as
required for support of manufactured homes and used or intended to be used by
two or more occupied manufactured homes. Such manufactured home park shall be
under one ownership and control, but under no circumstances shall the
manufactured home spaces be sold or offered for sale individually. The term
does not include a sales area on which unoccupied manufactured homes, whether
new or used, are parked for the purposes of storage, inspection, or sale. A
manufactured home may, however, remain on a space for purposes of sale by the
resident owner or the manufactured home park owner. No more than fifteen (15)
percent of the manufactured homes may be for rent at any one time.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, RESIDENTIAL DESIGN. A manufactured home on permanent
foundation which has: (a) minimum dimensions of 22 body feet in width; (b) a
pitched roof; and (c) siding and roofing materials which are customarily used
on site-built homes. Also see Article 29 of this Title, for additional specific
requirements.
   MEDICAL, DENTAL or HEALTH CLINIC. Any building designed for use by one or
more persons lawfully engaged in the diagnosis, care, and treatment of physical
or mental diseases or ailments of human beings; including, but not limited to,
doctors of medicine, dentists, chiropractors, osteopaths, optometrists,
psychiatrists, and podiatrists; and in which no patients are lodged overnight.
   MODULAR HOME. A dwelling structure located on a permanent foundation and
permanently connected to public utilities consisting of pre-selected,
prefabricated units or modules designed to meet the requirements of the Wamego
Building Code, and transported to and/or assembled on the site of its permanent
foundation; as opposed to a dwelling structure which is custom built on the
site of its permanent location; and also as opposed to a manufactured home,
either single-wide, double-wide, or of multiple width, located on a permanent
foundation and permanently connected to public utilities.
   MINI-WAREHOUSE. A structure containing individual small secured storage
compartments for rental to the general public. An outside yard may be permitted
under the conditions established by the district regulations. This definition
shall not include commercially operated industrial warehousing operations.
   NON-CONFORMING BUILDING. The use of a building or portion thereof lawfully
existing at the time of the passage of this Zoning Ordinance and amendments
thereto, which does not conform with the provisions of this Title or amendments
thereto.
   NON-CONFORMING LOT OF RECORD. A platted lot which does not comply with lot
size requirements for any permitted use in the district in which it is located.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE or USE. A lawfully existing structure or use at the
time these regulations or any amendments thereto became effective which does
not conform to the requirements of the zone in which it is located.
   NURSING HOMES or CONVALESCENT HOMES. An institution or agency licensed by
the State for the reception, board, care, or treatment of three or more
unrelated individuals, but not including facilities for the care and treatment
of mental illness, alcoholism or narcotics.
   PARCEL. All contiguous lands (including lots and parts of lots) held in one
ownership.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC or CUSTOMER. An area other than a private parking area,
street, or alley, used for parking of automobiles and available for public or
semi-public use.
   PARKING SPACE. An area surfaced for the purpose of storing one parked
automobile. For the purpose of this Title, one parking space shall have a
minimum width of nine feet and a minimum length of 20 feet. In computing off-
street parking, additional space shall be required off-street for access drives
to each parking space.
   PAVED PARKING. A vehicular parking area which has been surfaced with an
applied material, such as concrete or asphalt, which shall be of sufficient
quality and consistency to provide a dust-free, all-weather condition.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A foundation of formed and poured-in-place concrete or
masonry units laid up with such reinforcing materials as may be required for
quality construction.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association, or
corporation.
   PLACE or COURT. An open, unoccupied space, other than a street or alley,
permanently reserved as the principal means of access to abutting property.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A tract of land, meeting specified minimum site size,
whereon all elements of development may be designed as interrelated aspects of
an overall improvement concept in accordance with the provisions of this Title.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The City Planning Commission of Wamego, Kansas.
   PLAT. A layout of a subdivision indicating the location and boundaries of
individual properties.
   PLATTING. Whenever the terms platting, platted, or subdivided are used in
the Zoning Ordinance, it shall refer to the process established by the duly
adopted Subdivision Regulations of the City of Wamego.
   PRIVATE SEPTIC SYSTEM. See PRIVATE SEWER SYSTEM.
   PRIVATE SEWER SYSTEM. A sewer system, other than a public system, which is
intended to provide collection and disposal of sewage wastes for a single user
or a small group of users, and which is operated and maintained by a private
owner.
   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM. A water system, other than a public system, which is
intended to provide service for an individual user, or a small group of users,
and which is operated and maintained by a private owner.
   PRIVATE WATER WELL. See PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM.
   PREMISES. A parcel together with all buildings and structures thereon.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. The main structure as distinguished from a subordinate
or accessory structure.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An association, other than fraternal or service club,
organized and operated either for or not for profit for persons who are bona
fide members paying annual dues, which owns, hires, or leases premises, the use
of which premises is restricted to such members and their guests. The affairs
and management of such association are conducted by a board of directors,
executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members at their annual
meeting. Food, meals, and beverages may be served on such premises provided
adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities are available. Alcoholic
beverages may be sold or served to members and their guests provided that such
sale or service is in compliance with all applicable federal, state, county,
and local laws.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. Any building or part thereof used by one or more
persons engaged in the practice of law, medicine, accounting, architecture,
engineering, or other occupation customarily considered as a profession.
   PROPERTY LINE. Boundary between a specific land parcel and another land
parcel or public right-of-way.
   PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM. A sanitary sewer system intended to provide collection
and treatment of sewage wastes for the general public, and which is owned and
operated by a public utility company and/or recognized agency of local, state,
or federal government.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any business which provides the general public with
telephone service, electricity, cable television, natural gas, water, or any
similar service which so affects the public interest as to be subject to
supervision by an agency of state government.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. A water system which is intended to provide potable
water to the general public and which is owned and operated by a public utility
company and/or a recognized agency of local, state, or federal government.
   RECYCLING FACILITY. Any location whose primary use is where waste or scrap
materials are stored, bought, sold, accumulated, exchanged, packaged,
disassembled or handled, including, but not limited to scrap metals, paper,
rags, tires, bottles and other such materials. Such definition shall not
include salvage yards.
   RESTAURANT. A public eating establishment at which the primary function is
the preparation and serving of food.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN. An eating establishment where, for compensation, food
is prepared and dispensed having only incidental consumption within the
principal building on the premises.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling in which more than three persons, either
individually or as families, are housed or lodged for hire, with or without
meals.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any land or building used for the collection, storage or sale
of wastepaper, trash, rags, fibrous material, scrap metal, or other discarded
material; or for the collecting, dismantling, storage or salvaging of machinery
or vehicles not in running condition, or for the sale of parts thereof, or
materials from the demolition of buildings or structures. In the agricultural
and residential districts, no more than two licensed or unlicensed motor
vehicles which are in the process of restoration to operating condition may be
stored; provided, however, such vehicles are stored inside a structure or
screened from public view.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A lot or parcel of land used primarily for the disposal,
abandonment, dumping, burial, or burning of garbage, sewage, trash, refuse,
junk, discarded machinery or motor vehicles or parts thereof, or other waste,
and which is in conformance with the requirements of the Kansas Department of
Health and Environment.
   SCHOOL. A public elementary or secondary educational facility which is under
direction and control of the State Board of Education and the State
Superintendent of Public Instruction and/or a Parochial elementary or secondary
educational facility which offers the same general curriculum as that provided
by a comparable public educational facility.
   SERVICE STATION. An establishment consisting of a building or group of
buildings and surfaced area where automotive vehicles may be refueled and
serviced; such service shall not include tire recapping, body repairs, or major
overhaul.
   SETBACK. The distance between the lot line and building line.
   SIGN. A sign shall include any sign or other device which shall display or
include any letter, word, model, banner, flag, pennant, insignia, device, or
representation used as, or which is in the nature of, an advertisement or
announcement which directs attention to an object, product, place, activity,
person, institution, organization, or business, but shall not include any
display of official notice or official flag.
      (1)   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign which directs the attention of the public
to any goods, merchandise, property, business service, entertainment, or
amusement conducted or produced which is bought or sold, furnished, offered, or
dealt in elsewhere than on the premises where such sign is located or to which
it is affixed.
      (2)   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a business or
profession conducted or to products, services, or entertainment sold or offered
upon the premises where such sign is located or to which it is affixed. A "For
Sale" sign or a "For Rent" sign, relating to the property on which it is
displayed, shall be deemed a business sign.
      (3)   SIGN, FLASHING. Any illuminated sign on which the artificial light
is not constant in intensity and color at all times. For the purpose of this
Title, any revolving illuminated sign shall be considered a flashing sign.
      (4)   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign designed to give forth artificial light
or designed to reflect light derived from any source.
      (5)   SIGN, SANDWICH. An advertising or business ground sign which is
constructed in such a manner to form an "A" or a tent-like shape hinged or not
hinged at the top and each angular face held at an appropriate distance by a
supporting member.
      (6)   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A sign, with or without illumination, which is not
permanently attached to the building or anchored in the ground and which is
capable of being easily removed or transported from one location to another,
provided that the following shall not be construed to be temporary signs under
this definition:
         (A)   Real estate signs not exceeding four square feet in area which
advertise the sale, rental, or lease of the premises upon which said signs are
located.
         (B)   Signs denoting the architect, engineer, or contractor when
placed upon the work under construction and not exceeding 16 square feet in
area.
         (C)   Banners.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A special use permit is a written permit issued by the
Zoning Administrator with the written authorization of the Board of Zoning
Appeals. This special use permit provides permission under special conditions
to make certain special exception of uses in certain zoning districts as
stipulated in the specific Zoning Ordinance.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or, if there is no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection
of the roof decking and wall face not more than three feet above the top floor
level, and in which space not more than two-thirds of the floor area is
finished for use. A half-story containing independent apartment or living
quarters shall be counted as a full story.
   STREET. A right-of-way, other than an alley, dedicated to the public use,
which provides principal access to adjacent properties.
   STREET LINE. A dividing line between a lot, tract, or parcel of land and the
contiguous street.
   STREET NETWORK.
      (1)   ARTERIAL STREET. A street which provides for through traffic
movement between and around areas and across the Wamego Zoning Jurisdiction
with direct access to abutting property; subject to necessary control of
entrances, exits, and curb uses.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which provides for traffic movement
between arterial and local streets with direct access to abutting property.
      (3)   LOCAL STREET. A street which provides direct access to abutting
land and for local traffic movement, whether in business, industrial, or
residential areas.
   STREET TREE. Any plant botanically classified as a "tree" species which is
located within the public street right-of-way, or on a private lot within ten
feet of the front lot line.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent
location on the ground, but not including fences.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change or rearrangement of the supporting
members of a building, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or
girders, or any complete rebuilding of the roof or the exterior walls. For the
purpose of this Title, the following shall not be considered structural
alterations.
      (1)   Attachment of new front where structural supports are not changed.
      (2)   Addition of fire escapes where structural supports are not changed.
      (3)   New windows where lintels and support walls are not materially
changed.
      (4)   Minor repair or replacement of nonstructural members.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a tract of land into one or more lots or
parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development, or,
if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land. The term
subdivision includes resubdivision, and the term "resubdivision", as used
herein, shall include any further subdivision of a lot or parcel of land
previously subdivided for sale, use, or other purpose which varies from the
latest, approved subdivision of the same. (See Subdivision Regulations.)
   SUBDIVISION PLAT. A plan or map prepared in accordance with the provisions
of the duly adopted Subdivision Regulations and recorded with the Register of
Deeds.
   TAVERN. An establishment in which the primary function is the public sale
and serving of cereal malt beverages.
   THIS TITLE. The document duly approved and adopted by the Planning
Commission and the City Commission of the City of Wamego, Kansas, which
establishes zoning requirements.
   TOWNHOUSE. A multiple-family dwelling unit which is individually owned along
with a lot or other tract of land, as opposed to a condominium.
   TRACT. A plot or parcel of land, other than a lot in a subdivision which is
recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds.
   USE. The specific purpose for which land or a building is used. The term
"permitted use", or its equivalent, shall not be deemed to include any illegal
nonconforming use.
   VARIANCE. The authorization, by the Board of Zoning Appeals, of a variance
of the specific terms of this Zoning Ordinance. Variances are limited to those
authorized in the powers and duties of the Board of Zoning Appeals as defined
in this Title.
   VISION TRIANGLE. An area at a street intersection in which nothing shall be
erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially
impede vision between a height of two-and-one-half feet and ten feet above the
grades of the bottom of the curb of the intersecting streets, measured from the
point of intersection of the centerline of the streets, 80 feet in each
direction along the centerline of the streets. At the intersection of major or
arterial streets, the 80 foot distance shall be increased to 120 feet. (See §
17-303.)
   YARD. A space on the same lot with a main building open, unoccupied, and
unobstructed by buildings or structures from the ground upward.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth of
which is the least distance between the street right-of-way and the front
building line. (See §
17-304.)
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
rear of the main building and the rear lot line, the depth of which is the
least distance between the rear lot line and the rear of such main building.
For substandard corner lots of record, the rear yard shall be defined as the
yard opposite the frontage having the lesser length. The yard adjacent to an
alley shall be defined as the rear yard for substandard lots of record where
the front lot line is perpendicular to the alley line. (See §
17-304.)
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the main building and the side lot line extending
from the front yard, or front lot line where no front yard is required, to the
rear yard. The width of the required side yard shall be measured horizontally
at 90 degrees with the side lot line from the nearest point of the side lot
line toward the nearest part of the main building. For substandard interior
lots of record where the front yard line is perpendicular to the alley line,
two side yards shall be provided. (See §
17-304.)
   ZONE or DISTRICT. A portion, area, or section of the Wamego Zoning
Jurisdiction for which uniform regulations governing the use, height, area,
size, and intensity of use of buildings, land, and open spaces about buildings
are herein established.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person or persons authorized and empowered by the
Governing Body having jurisdiction to administer the requirements of this
Zoning Ordinance.
   ZONING JURISDICTION. The area to be zoned as set out on the Official Zoning
Map filed of record.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The term zoning ordinance or this Title shall mean the
requirements stipulated by the zoning regulations established herewith.
§ 17-303 CORNER LOT SIGHT CONTROL TRIANGLE.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/599c38adb1d29058ccb8108cbee57e73f56afdbf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2395.png]
 
§ 17-304 BLOCK DIAGRAM.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/599c38adb1d29058ccb8108cbee57e73f56afdbf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2397.png]
 
ARTICLE 4: DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES
Section
   
17-401   District classifications
   
17-402   Zoning district map
   
17-403   Annexation rule
   
17-404   Rules where uncertainty may arise
§ 17-401 DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS.
   In order to classify, regulate, and restrict the location of trades,
industries, residential uses, and other uses, and the location of buildings
designed for specified uses to regulate and limit the height and bulk of
buildings; to regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lots; to regulate
and determine the area of yards and other open spaces surrounding buildings;
and to regulate and restrict the density of population, the Wamego Zoning
Jurisdiction is divided into districts designated as follows:
   (a)   "A-L" Agriculture District.
   (b)   "F-P" Floodplain District.
   (c)   "R-L" Residential Low-Density District.
   (d)   "R-M" Residential Medium Density District.
   (e)   "R-H" Historic Townsite Residential District.
   (f)   "RH-O" Historic Townsite Residential Overlay District.
   (g)   "R-1" Single-Family Dwelling District.
   (h)   "R-2" Two-Family Dwelling District.
   (i)   "R-3" Multiple-Family Dwelling District.
   (j)   "PUD" Planned Unit Development District.
   (k)   "M-H" Manufactured Home Overlay District.
   (l)   "M-P" Manufactured Home Park District.
   (m)   "P-I" Public and Institutional District.
   (n)   "C-S" Highway Service District.
   (o)   "C-1" Retail Business District.
   (p)   "C-2" General Commercial District.
   (q)   "C-3" Adult Entertainment District.
   (r)   "I-P" Industrial Park District with "C-S, "I-1" and "I-2" Overlays.
   (s)   "I-1" Light Industrial District.
   (t)   "I-2" Heavy Industrial District.
§ 17-402 ZONING DISTRICT MAP.
   The boundaries of the zoning districts are shown on the map and/or sections
thereof attached hereto and made a part of this Title, which map is designated
as the "Zoning Map", City of Wamego, Kansas. The Zoning Map and all the
notations, references, and other information shown thereon are a part of this
Title and have the same force and effect as if said map and all the notations,
references, and other information shown thereon were all fully set forth or
described herein. Copies of the Zoning Map are properly attested and are on
file with the City Clerk of Wamego, Kansas.
§ 17-403 ANNEXATION RULE.
   All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the city shall be annexed as
the zone designation existing at the time of annexation until or unless
otherwise established by ordinance.
§ 17-404 RULES WHERE UNCERTAINTY MAY ARISE.
   Where uncertainty exists, with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the map accompanying and made a part of this Title, the
following rules apply:
   (a)   The district boundaries are the centerline of either streets or alleys
unless otherwise shown.
   (b)   Where the property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks
and lots, the district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines, and
where the districts designated on the map accompanying and made a part of this
Title are bounded approximately by lot lines, the lot lines shall be construed
to be the boundary of the district unless the boundaries are otherwise
indicated on the map.
   (c)   In un-subdivided property, the district boundary line on the map
accompanying and made a part of this Title shall be determined by the use of
the scale appearing on the map.
ARTICLE 5: “A-L” AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
Section
   
17-501   Intent and purpose of district
   
17-502   District regulations
   
17-503   Use regulations
   
17-504   Intensity of use regulations
   
17-505   Height regulations
   
17-506   Yard regulations
   
17-507   Sign regulations
   
17-508   Parking and loading regulations
§ 17-501 INTENT AND PURPOSE OF DISTRICT.
   The "A-L" Agricultural District is established for the purpose of protecting
agricultural uses in the county by restricting and regulating density, land
coverage, and land use.
§ 17-502 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   In the "A-L" District, no building or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered, or enlarged which is arranged or designed
for other than one of the uses listed in §
17-503 below.
§ 17-503 USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   General farm operations.
   (b)   Single-family dwelling units on two or more acres for exclusive use by
the farm family or employees.
   (c)   Residential design manufactured homes.
   (d)   Manufactured homes incidental to general farm operations on the same
tract or parcel with the principal dwelling provided the manufactured home is
used exclusively by the farm family or employees, and provided that, in the
case where individual wells and/or septic systems are used, spacing is in
accordance with the current Pottawatomie County Sanitary regulations.
   (e)   Foster homes.
   (f)   Group homes.
   (g)   Churches and similar places of worship and parish houses.
   (h)   Golf courses and other open land recreational uses, except miniature
golf courses, driving tees, or other intensive commercial uses, such as
automobile race tracks or amusement parks.
   (i)   Greenhouses, nurseries, and gardens.
   (j)   Institutions of higher learning, including dormitory accommodations
when located on the same tract as the educational buildings.
   (k)   Public and semi-public parks, playgrounds, campgrounds, fishing
preserves, or other recreational areas and community buildings owned and
operated by a public agency or non-profit organizations.
   (l)   Public or parochial elementary, junior high, and high schools and
private schools with equivalent curriculum.
   (m)   Registered family day care homes.
   (n)   Stands for sale of agricultural products or commodities raised on the
premises.
   (o)   Customary accessory uses and structures located on the same tract with
the principal use, including barns, sheds, tennis courts, swimming pools,
private garages, garden houses, barbecue ovens, fireplaces, and similar uses.
   (p)   Temporary structures incidental to construction work, but only for the
period of such work. Basements and cellars may not be occupied for residential
purposes until the building is completed.
   (q)   Utility lines and facilities necessary for public service, and
including refuse disposal areas conducted under a landfill or sanitary fill
method, public and semi-public storage and repair facilities, sewage disposal,
water supply and treatment facilities, dams, and power plants, subject to
applicable Kansas Department of Health and Environment and Pottawatomie County
Sanitary regulations.
   (r)   Water sheds, wildlife habitats, wildlife production areas, and game
management areas or other conservation uses.
   (s)   The following uses may be allowed by special use permit when
submitted, reviewed, and approved by the Board of Zoning appeals and subject to
conditions as the Board may impose.
      (1)   Any public building erected or land used by any department of the
city, county, state, or federal government.
      (2)   Airport or heliport.
      (3)   Bed and breakfast establishments.
      (4)   Catering business.
      (5)   Child care centers.
      (6)   Electronic communications towers, provided that towers within 150
feet of a dwelling district zone may have a height of no more than 80 feet; and
customary accessory uses incidental to electronic communications towers, such
as parking areas, electronics, and generator buildings (not to include
broadcast studios). Also see
Article 29 of this Title for additional requirements.
      (7)   Home occupations.
      (8)   Licensed day care homes.
      (9)   Adult day care homes.
      (10)   Nursing homes, rest homes, convalescent homes, and homes for the
aged on a tract of land three acres or larger.
      (11)   Preschools.
      (12)   Riding stables and academies providing no structures housing
horses shall be located nearer than 600 feet to the boundary of any residential
district.
      (13)   Animal hospitals or kennels, provided that no animal hospital
shall be located closer than 300 feet from any residential zone, and that no
kennel may be located closer than 1,000 feet from any residential zone.
      (14)   Wrecking, salvage, or junk yards, providing the storage yard is
completely enclosed with a six foot solid fence or wall and located not less
than 300 feet from a residential district zone and subject to the following:
         (A)   The operation shall be conducted completely within the enclosed
area. The fence or wall shall be of uniform texture and color and shall be so
maintained by the proprietor as to ensure maximum safety to the public and
preserve the general welfare of the area. The fence or wall shall be installed
in such a manner as to retain all scrap, junk, or other material within the
yard.
         (B)   No junk shall be loaded, unloaded, or otherwise placed either
temporarily or permanently outside the enclosed fence or wall or within public
right-of-way.
         (C)   Burning of paper, trash, junk, or other waste materials shall be
permitted only after approval of the Fire Department and in accordance with
state requirements. Said burning, when permitted, shall be done during daylight
hours only.
      (15)   Exploration and extraction of oil and natural gas. Dog kennels.
      (16)   Water retention areas.
      (17)   Racetrack, animal or vehicular.
      (18)   Extraction and/or mining of minerals.
      (19)   Animal feed lots, subject to sanitation and odor practice
appropriate to maintain a healthful environment in the vicinity, provided that
no feed lot shall be located nearer than one mile to any residence other than
that of the owner or operator.
§ 17-504 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   Tracts in this district shall be subject to the following minimum size
requirements:
   (a)   Buildings served by private water wells and septic systems - five
acres. (Depending on percolation test results and soil analysis, this minimum
area may be reduced to four acres upon recommendation of the Pottawatomie
County Sanitarian.)
   (b)   Buildings served by a public water system and private septic system -
three acres.
   (c)   Buildings served by a public water system and public sewer system -
two acres.
   (d)   Minimum lot width shall be as required by the Pottawatomie County
Sanitarian if served by a private water and/or sewer system.
   (e)   Installation of lagoon systems shall only be permitted upon review and
recommendation of the Wamego Planning Commission. Said review shall consider
the recommendation of the Pottawatomie County Sanitarian.
§ 17-505 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in the height, area, bulk, and dimensional
requirements of this Title, no building or structure shall exceed the following
height restrictions:
   (a)   When a building or structure is within 150 feet of a dwelling district
zone, said building or structure shall not exceed 35 feet in height.
   (b)   When a building or structure is more than 150 feet from a dwelling
district zone, said building or structure shall not exceed 80 feet in height.
Buildings and structures used for nonagricultural purposes shall not exceed 35
feet in height.
§ 17-506 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Front yard.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 40 feet
except as required for arterial and collector streets or roads. (See Additional
Height, Area, and Use Regulations.)
      (2)   Where a lot or tract has double frontage, the required front yard
shall be provided on both streets or roads.
      (3)   Where a lot or tract is located at the intersections of two or more
streets or roads, there shall be a front yard on each street or road side of
said lot or tract. No accessory building shall project beyond the front yard
line on either street or road.
   (b)   Side yard. There shall be a side yard setback on each side of every
building or structure which shall not be less than 10% of the width of the lot
with a minimum setback of 15 feet. A roof overhang of one foot into the
required side yard setback area is permitted.
   (c)   Rear yard. Except as hereinafter provided in the additional height,
area, and use regulations of this Title, there shall be a rear yard having a
depth of not less than 40 feet.
§ 17-507 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 24 of this Title.
§ 17-508 PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 25 of this Title.
ARTICLE 6: “F-P” FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT
Section
   
17-601   Intent and purpose of district
   
17-602   District regulations
   
17-603   Special use regulations
   
17-604   Intensity of use regulations
   
17-605   Height regulations
   
17-606   Yard regulations
   
17-607   Sign regulations
   
17-608   Parking and loading regulations
§ 17-601 INTENT AND PURPOSE OF DISTRICT.
   The "F-P" Floodplain District is intended for application in those areas of
the community which are subject to inundation from surplus storm water as
defined by the Flood Insurance Study and accompanying Flood Insurance Rate
Maps, Number 2002760001C and 2002760002C, effective March 17, 2003, and
Community Panel Number 200621-0260-C, effective February 17, 1988, and any
subsequent additions or amendments thereto, prepared for the City of Wamego,
Kansas, and surrounding areas of Pottawatomie County, by the Federal Insurance
Administration. This zone is intended for application throughout the Wamego
Zoning Jurisdiction in locations where official floodplain delineation has been
established. The regulations are intended to minimize the extent of floods and
reduce the height and violence thereof; to minimize the loss of life and
property caused by floods; and to secure safety from floods through the
confinement of floods within reasonable limits by regulating and restricting
areas of development along or in natural water courses and drainways.
§ 17-602 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   In the "F-P" District, no building or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered, or enlarged which is arranged or designed
for other than one of the permitted uses in the parent district, to which this
district is made a part, provided that such uses and structures meet the
minimum requirements of §
17-603.
§ 17-603 SPECIAL USE REGULATIONS.
   Notwithstanding the requirements of the parent district, the other
requirements of this Zoning Ordinance, and the detailed regulations present in
City Ordinance No. 1401 Floodway and Floodway Fringe Districts and any
amendments thereto, these regulations shall supplement the regulations of the
parent district, of which this district is made a part. These regulations shall
supersede those of the parent district where there is a conflict among
regulations. In areas within the Wamego Zoning Jurisdiction which are
designated as "F-P" Floodplain, all developed uses of land and buildings shall
meet the minimum standards and requirements for development within flood areas
as outlined and defined by Ordinance No. 1401 and any amendments thereto.
§ 17-604 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   The lot coverage and intensity of use of the parent district, of which this
district is made a part, shall be the maximum allowable.
§ 17-605 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The height requirements of the parent district, of which this district is
made a part shall be the maximum height requirements subject to additional
requirements as prescribed by this Title.
§ 17-606 YARD REGULATIONS.
   The yard requirements of the parent district, of which this district is made
a part, shall be the minimum yard requirements subject to additional
requirements as prescribed by this Title.
§ 17-608 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   The sign regulations of the parent district, of which this district is made
a part, shall be the minimum requirements for sign regulations.
§ 17-609 PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   The parking and loading regulations of the parent district, of which this
district is made a part, shall be the minimum requirements subject to
additional requirements as prescribed by this Title.
ARTICLE 7: “R-L” RESIDENTIAL LOW-DENSITY DISTRICT
Section
   
17-701   Intent and purpose of district
   
17-702   District regulations
   
17-703   Use regulations
   
17-704   Intensity of use regulations
   
17-705   Lot coverage
   
17-706   Height regulations
   
17-707   Yard regulations
   
17-708   Sign regulations
   
17-709   Parking and loading regulations
§ 17-701 INTENT AND PURPOSE OF DISTRICT.
   The "R-L" Residential Low-Density District is established to provide for
single-family rural residential development at a low density and to allow
certain public facilities. It is the intent of the district regulation to
protect the health, safety, and general welfare of persons residing in the
district; to prevent uses which would devalue property; to regulate population
density; and to provide adequate open space around buildings and structures.
§ 17-702 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   In the "R-L" District, no building or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered, or enlarged which is arranged or designed
for other than one of the following uses listed in §
17-703 below.
§ 17-703 USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   General farm operations. This shall not include or permit:
      (1)   Any activity within 300 feet of another residential district which
activity is noxious or offensive by reason of dust, odor, or noise.
   (b)   Registered family day care.
   (c)   Single-family non-farm dwellings.
   (d)   Residential design manufactured homes.
   (e)   Foster homes.
   (f)   Group homes.
   (g)   Temporary structures incidental to construction work but only for the
period of work. Basements and cellars may not be occupied for residential
purposes until the building is completed.
   (h)   Golf courses, except miniature golf courses or driving tees.
   (i)   Public parks, playgrounds, and recreational areas owned and operated
by a public agency.
   (j)   Customary accessory uses and structures located on the same lot with
the principal use including tennis courts, swimming pools, private garages,
garden houses, barbecue ovens, and fireplaces.
   (k)   The following non-farm uses may be allowed by special use permit when
submitted, reviewed, and approved by the Board of Zoning appeals, and under
such conditions as the Board may impose:
      (1)   Accessory buildings on the rear half of non-farm residence building
sites used as private storerooms, wood sheds, workshops, laundries, playhouses,
greenhouses, poultry or animal shelters, and other similar or related accessory
uses; provided, however, that there shall be not more than three buildings
allowed in addition to private garages as accessory to any non-farm, single-
family residence, subject to limitations specified in division (3) below.
      (2)   Raising and care of livestock for show and pleasure.
      (3)   The following limitations are applicable to issuance of special use
permits in divisions (1) and (2) above:
         (A)   When an "R-L" District or a portion thereof is reclassified to
another more restrictive residential zone, all those uses granted by special
use permit for animal shelters or similar related uses in division (1) above
and those uses granted under division (2) above shall be completely
discontinued within a period of six months from the date of reclassification.
         (B)   Uses permitted in division (2) above shall not be kept for
commercial purposes.
         (C)   Livestock permitted in division (2) above shall be properly
sheltered and proper sanitation shall be maintained at all times.
         (D)   Livestock cages or pens permitted in division (2) above shall
not be closer than 50 feet from any residence.
      (4)   Adult day care.
      (5)   Churches and similar places of worship.
      (6)   Home occupations.
      (7)   Hospitals for people on a lot, plot, or tract of land five acres or
larger.
      (8)   Licensed day care homes.
      (9)   Nursing home, assisted living facilities, sanitarium, rest home,
homes for the aged, or convalescent home on a lot, plot, or tract of land five
acres or larger.
      (10)   Preschools.
      (11)   Raising of trees, shrubs, and grasses not sold on the premises.
      (12)   Schools - public or parochial, elementary, junior high and high
schools, and private schools with equivalent curriculum.
      (13)   Cemetery.
      (14)   Any public building erected or land used by any department of the
city, county, state, or federal government.
      (15)   Child care centers.
      (16)   Bed and breakfast.
      (17)   Catering business.
§ 17-704 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   Lots in this district shall be subject to the following minimum size
requirements:
   (a)   Buildings served by private water wells and septic systems - five
acres. (Depending on percolation test results and soil analysis, this minimum
area may be reduced to four acres upon recommendation of the Pottawatomie
County Sanitarian.)
   (b)   Buildings served by a public water system and a private septic system
- three acres.
   (c)   Buildings served by a public water system and a public sewer system -
20,000 square feet. Lots shall have an average tract or lot width of not less
than 80 feet, or as required by the Pottawatomie County Sanitarian.
   (d)   Installation of lagoon systems shall only be permitted upon review and
recommendation of the Wamego Planning Commission. Said review shall consider
the recommendation of the Pottawatomie County Sanitarian.
§ 17-705 LOT COVERAGE.
   The principal building and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 30%
of the lot area.
§ 17-706 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed 35 feet in height.
§ 17-707 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Front yard.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25
feet, except as required for arterial and collector streets in
Article 29 of this Title.
      (2)   Where a lot or group of lots have a double frontage, the required
front yard shall be provided on both streets.
      (3)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more streets,
there shall be a front yard on each street side of a corner lot; provided,
however, that the buildable width of a single lot of record as of the effective
date of this Title shall not be reduced to less than 35 feet.
   (b)   Side yard. Except as hereinafter required in the additional height,
area, and use regulations of this Title, there shall be a side yard setback of
not less than 10% of the width of the lot with a minimum of eight feet and a
maximum required setback of 15 feet. A roof overhang of one foot into the
required side yard setback area is permitted.
   (c)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
25 feet.
§ 17-708 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 24 of this Title.
§ 17-709 PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 25 of this Title.
ARTICLE 8: “R-M” RESIDENTIAL MEDIUM DENSITY DISTRICT
Section
   
17-801   Intent and purpose of district
   
17-802   District regulations
   
17-803   Use regulations
   
17-804   Intensity of use regulations
   
17-805   Lot coverage
   
17-806   Height regulations
   
17-807   Yard regulations
   
17-808   Sign regulations
   
17-809   Parking and loading regulations
§ 17-801 INTENT AND PURPOSE OF DISTRICT.
   The "R-M" Residential Medium Density District is established to provide for
single-family rural residential development at a higher density than is
allowable in either the “A-L” or “R-L” zones. This zone is intended for
application in developing areas adjacent to the city, and is intended to
minimize conflicts of incompatible uses of land; to protect the public health
and welfare until the area is annexed; and to provide for compatible private
and public facilities with appropriate open spaces.
§ 17-802 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   In the "R-M" District, no building or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended, or
designed for other than one of the uses listed in §
17-803 below.
§ 17-803 USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Single-family dwellings.
   (b)   Residential design manufactured homes.
   (c)   Foster homes.
   (d)   Group homes.
   (e)   Churches and similar places of worship and parish houses.
   (f)   Golf courses, except miniature golf courses and driving tees operated
for commercial purposes.
   (g)   Hospitals for people only on a lot, plot, or tract of land five acres
or larger.
   (h)   Nursing homes and assisted living facilities on a lot, plot, or tract
of land five acres or larger.
   (i)   Public parks, playgrounds, recreational areas.
   (j)   Raising of crops, trees, shrubs, and grasses not sold on the premises.
   (k)   Registered family day care.
   (l)   Customary accessory uses and structures located on the same lot with
the principal use including tennis courts, swimming pools, private garages,
garden houses, barbecue ovens, and fireplaces.
   (m)   Temporary structures incidental to construction work, but only for the
period of work. Basements and cellars may not be occupied for residential
purposes until the building is completed.
   (n)   General farm operations excluding activities which are noxious or
offensive by reasons of dust, odor, or noise.
   (o)   Cemeteries.
   (p)   Any public building erected or land used by any department of the
city, county, state, or federal government.
   (q)   The following uses may be allowed by special use permit when
submitted, reviewed, and approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals, and under
such conditions as the Board may impose:
      (1)   Adult day care.
      (2)   Home occupations.
      (3)   Licensed day care homes.
      (4)   Preschools.
      (5)   Child care centers.
      (6)   Bed and breakfast.
      (7)   Catering business.
§ 17-804 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   Lots in this district shall be subject to the following minimum size
requirements:
   (a)   Buildings served by private water wells and septic systems - five
acres.
   (b)   Buildings served by a public water system and a private septic system
- three acres.
   (c)   Buildings served by a public water system and a public sewer system -
8,400 square feet.
   (d)   Lots shall have an average tract or lot width of not less than 70
feet, or as required by the Pottawatomie County Sanitarian.
   (e)   Installation of lagoon systems shall only be permitted upon review and
recommendation of the Wamego Planning Commission. Said review shall consider
the recommendation of the Pottawatomie County Sanitarian.
§ 17-805 LOT COVERAGE.
   The principal building and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 30%
of the lot area.
§ 17-806 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed 35 feet in height.
§ 17-807 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Front yard.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25
feet, except as required for arterial and collector streets in
Article 29 of this Title.
      (2)   Where a lot or group of lots have a double frontage, the required
front yard shall be provided on both streets.
      (3)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more streets,
there shall be a front yard on each street side of a corner lot; provided,
however, that the buildable width of a single lot of record as of the effective
date of this Title shall not be reduced to less than 35 feet.
   (b)   Side yard. Except as hereinafter required in the additional height,
area and use regulations, there shall be a side yard setback of not less than
10% of the width of the lot with a minimum of five feet and a maximum required
setback of 15 feet. A roof overhang of one foot into the required side yard
setback area is permitted.
   (c)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
25 feet.
§ 17-808 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 24 of this Title.
§ 17-809 PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 25 of this Title.
ARTICLE 9: “R-H” HISTORIC TOWNSITE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
Section
   
17-901   Intent and purpose of district
   
17-902   District regulations
   
17-903   Use regulations
   
17-904   Intensity of use regulations
   
17-905   Lot coverage
   
17-906   Height regulations
   
17-907   Yard regulations
   
17-908   Sign regulations
   
17-909   Parking and loading regulations
   
17-910   Landscaping and stormwater management requirements
§ 17-901 INTENT AND PURPOSE OF DISTRICT.
   The "R-H" Historic Townsite Residential District is established for the
purpose of recognizing the unique platting and development characteristics
common to the older residential neighborhoods in Wamego, and to help preserve
the quality of the living environment in such areas. The regulations are
intended to provide continuation of established residential development
densities together with preservation of the physical environment and aesthetic
qualities which have been traditional in the original neighborhoods of the
community.
§ 17-902 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   In the "R-H" District, no building or structure shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged,
intended, or designed for other than one of the uses listed in §
17-903 below.
§ 17-903 USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Single-family dwellings.
   (b)   Two-family (duplex) and not more than two single-family attached
dwellings subject to approval by the Planning Commission and to the following:
      (1)   Minimum lot size shall be 8,400 square feet with a minimum lot
width of 60 feet.
      (2)   The structure shall be architecturally compatible with other
residential structures in the surrounding neighborhood.
      (3)   There shall be provision for off-street parking for at least four
vehicles.
      (4)   The lot shall be appropriately landscaped to enhance the visual
quality of the block. This shall include screening and/or buffering of adjacent
residences where deemed necessary by the Board.
      (5)   The applicant shall submit with his application for a duplex a site
plan concept design sketch showing details of lot improvement.
      (6)   When reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission, the site
plan design sketch shall constitute a condition of authority for development.
      (7)   Existing duplex structures as of the date of this Title are exempt
from these requirements.
   (c)   Residential design manufactured housing.
   (d)   Foster homes.
   (e)   Group homes.
   (f)   Churches and similar places of worship and parish houses.
   (g)   Hospitals for people only on a lot, plot, or tract of land five acres
or larger.
   (h)   Nursing homes and assisted living facilities on a lot, plot, or tract
of land five acres or larger.
   (i)   Public parks, playgrounds, recreational areas.
   (j)   Registered family day care.
   (k)   Schools - public or parochial, elementary, junior high and high
schools, and private schools with equivalent curriculum.
   (l)   Customary accessory uses and structures located on the same lot with
the principal use including tennis courts, swimming pools, private garages,
garden houses, barbecue ovens, and fireplaces, but which do not include uses
unrelated to the principal use or any activity commonly conducted for gain.
   (m)   Temporary structures incidental to construction work, but only for the
period of such work. Basements and cellars may not be occupied for residential
purposes until the building is completed.
   (n)   The following uses may be allowed by special use permit when
submitted, reviewed, and approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals, and under
such conditions as the Board may impose:
      (1)   Adult day care.
      (2)   Home occupations.
      (3)   Licensed day care homes.
      (4)   Preschools.
      (5)   Child care centers.
      (6)   Bed and breakfast establishments.
§ 17-904 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   Every lot shall have an area of not less than 6,000 square feet and an
average width of not less than 50 feet.
§ 17-905 LOT COVERAGE.
   The principal building and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 30%
of the lot area, excepting that, where a single lot of record, as defined in
the definitions section of this Title, as of the effective date of this Title,
has an area of not more than 7,500 square feet, the principal building and
accessory buildings shall not cover more than 35% of the lot area.
§ 17-906 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed 35 feet in height.
§ 17-907 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Front yard.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25
feet, except as required for arterial and collector streets in
Article 29 of this Title.
      (2)   Where a lot or group of lots have a double frontage, the required
front yard shall be provided on both streets.
      (3)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more streets,
there shall be a front yard on each street side of a corner lot; provided,
however, that the buildable width of a single lot of record, as of the
effective date of this Title, shall not be reduced to less than 35 feet.
      (4)   Where a principal or accessory building existing as of the
effective date of this Title, encroaches upon the required foot front yard, and
where the building is on a single lot of record, as defined in the definitions
section of this Title, established prior to the effective date of said Title
and having an area of not more than 7,500 square feet, an addition to said
building shall be permitted, provided the addition does not encroach further
into the required front yard than the furthest projection of said building, and
providing that said addition represents not more than 50% of the lot coverage
of the existing building.
   (b)   Side yard.
      (1)   There shall be a side yard building setback which shall be one-
third the height of the principal building or 10% of the width of the lot,
whichever is the greater, with a minimum of five feet, and a maximum required
setback of 15 feet. A roof overhang of one foot into the required side yard
setback area is permitted; unless otherwise prescribed and/or approved by the
Planning Commission.
      (2)   Where more than one principal building is constructed on a tract
for hospital use, nursing home use, church use, school use, and other public
uses, the spacing between principal buildings shall not be less than the
average height of the adjacent buildings.
      (3)   Where a principal or accessory building existing as of the
effective date of this Title, encroaches upon the required side yard, and where
the building is on a single lot of record, as defined in the definitions of
this Title, established prior to the effective date of said Title and having an
area of not more than 7,500 square feet, an addition to said building shall be
permitted, provided the addition does not encroach further into the required
side yard than the furthest projection of said building, and providing that
said addition represents not more than 50% of the lot coverage of the existing
building.
   (c)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
25 feet.
§ 17-908 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 24 of this Title.
§ 17-909 PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 25 of this Title.
§ 17-910 LANDSCAPING AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to the general requirements of
Article 26 of this Title all new development, or substantial modifications of
existing development, in the "R-H" zone shall hereinafter be subject to the
following additional requirements which are intended to preserve and extend the
visual quality of the neighborhood.
   (a)   Existing street trees three inches or greater in trunk diameter shall
be preserved where practicable.
   (b)   Where preservation is impractical, and existing street trees three
inches or greater in trunk diameter are removed to accommodate new
construction, replacement trees of similar type and future mature size shall be
installed during the next seasonal planting period. Street tree replacements
shall be required on a one for one basis.
ARTICLE 9-A: “RH-O” HISTORIC TOWNSITE RESIDENTIAL OVERLAY DISTRICT
Section
   
17-901-A   Intent and purpose of district
   
17-902-A   District regulations
   
17-903-A   Use regulations
   
17-904-A   Intensity of use regulations
   
17-905-A   Lot coverage
   
17-906-A   Height regulations
   
17-907-A   Yard regulations
   
17-908-A   Sign regulations
   
17-909-A   Parking and loading regulations
   
17-910-A   Landscaping and stormwater requirements
   
17-911-A   Traffic regulations
§ 17-901-A INTENT AND PURPOSE OF DISTRICT.
   The "RH-O" Historic Townsite Residential Overlay District is established for
the purpose of permitting residential uses along with the allowable uses of the
parent district. It is intended that this district be applied in commercial
district fringe locations where older homes exist in close proximity with non-
residential land uses, such as at the edge of the Central Business District.
§ 17-902-A DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   In the "RH O" District, no building or structure shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged,
intended or designed for other than one of the uses listed in §
17-903-A below.
§ 17-903-A USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   All uses in the "R-H" Historic Townsite Residential District.
   (b)   Uses and structures permitted under the provisions of the regulations
of the parent district, of which this district is made a part.
§ 17-904-A INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   Every lot shall have an area of not less than 6,000 square feet and an
average width of not less than 50 feet. A minimum of 1,500 square feet of lot
area shall be required for each apartment built above ground floor.
§ 17-905-A LOT COVERAGE.
   For all uses allowable in the "RH-O" Historic Townsite Residential Overlay
District, the principal building and accessory buildings shall not cover more
than 30% of the lot areas, excepting that, where a single lot of record, as
defined in the definitions section of this Title, as of the effective date of
the Title, has an area of not more than 7,500 square feet, the principal
building and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 35% of the lot area.
For all uses not allowable in the "RH-O" District, the lot coverage provisions
of the parent district, if any, shall apply.
§ 17-906-A HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building allowable in the "RH-O" Historic Townsite Residential Overlay
District shall exceed 35 feet in height. For all uses not allowable in the "RH-
O" District, the height provisions of the parent district shall apply.
§ 17-907-A YARD REGULATIONS.
   The yard requirements of the "RH-O" Historic Townsite Residential Overlay
District shall apply for all uses allowable in the "RH-O" District. For all
uses not allowable in the "RH-O" District the yard requirements of the parent
district shall apply.
§ 17-908-A SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 24 of this Title.
§ 17-909-A PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 25 of this Title.
§ 17-910-A LANDSCAPING AND STORMWATER REQUIREMENTS.
   For all uses allowable in the "RH-O" Historic Townsite Residential Overlay
District, the landscaping requirements of the “R-H” District shall apply. For
all uses not allowable in the “R-H” District, the landscaping requirements of
the parent district shall apply.
§ 17-911-A TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 27 of this Title.
ARTICLE 10: “R-1" SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
Section
   
17-1001   Intent and purpose of district
   
17-1002   District regulations
   
17-1003   Use regulations
   
17-1004   Intensity of use regulations
   
17-1005   Lot coverage
   
17-1006   Height regulations
   
17-1007   Yard regulations
   
17-1008   Sign regulations
   
17-1009   Parking and loading regulations
§ 17-1001 INTENT AND PURPOSE OF DISTRICT.
   The "R-1" Single-Family Dwelling District is established for the purpose of
low density, single-family dwelling use and to allow certain public facilities.
It is intended that no uses be permitted in this district that will tend to
devalue property for residential purposes or interfere with the health, safety,
order, or general welfare of persons residing in the district. Regulations are
intended to control density of population and to provide adequate open space
around buildings and structures in the district to accomplish these purposes.
§ 17-1002 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   In the "R-1" District, no building or structure shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged,
intended, or designed for other than one of the uses listed in §
17-1003 below.
§ 17-1003 USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Single-family dwellings.
   (b)   Residential design manufactured housing.
   (c)   Foster homes.
   (d)   Group homes.
   (e)   Churches and similar places of worship and parish houses.
   (f)   Golf courses, except miniature golf courses and driving tees operated
for commercial purposes.
   (g)   Hospitals for people only on a lot, plot, or tract of land five acres
or larger.
   (h)   Nursing homes and assisted living facilities on a lot, plot, or tract
of land five acres or larger.
   (i)   Public parks, playgrounds, recreational areas.
   (j)   Raising of crops, trees, shrubs, and grasses not sold on the premises.
   (k)   Registered family day care.
   (l)   Customary accessory uses and structures located on the same lot with
the principal use including tennis courts, swimming pools, private garages,
garden houses, barbecue ovens, and fireplaces, but which do not include uses
unrelated to the principal use or any activity commonly conducted for gain.
   (m)   Temporary structures incidental to construction work, but only for the
period of such work. Basements and cellars may not be occupied for residential
purposes until the building is completed.
   (n)   The following uses may be allowed by special use permit when
submitted, reviewed, and approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals, and under
such conditions as the Board may impose:
      (1)   Adult day care.
      (2)   Home occupations.
      (3)   Licensed day care homes.
      (4)   Preschools.
      (5)   Child care centers.
      (6)   Bed and breakfast.
      (7)   Catering business.
§ 17-1004 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   Every lot shall have an area of not less than 6,000 square feet and an
average width of not less than 65 feet.
§ 17-1005 LOT COVERAGE.
   The principal building and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 30%
of the lot area, excepting that, where a single lot of record, as defined in
the definitions section of this Title, as of the effective date of this Title,
has an area of not more than 7,500 square feet, the principal building and
accessory buildings shall not cover more than 35% of the lot area.
§ 17-1006 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed 35 feet in height.
§ 17-1007 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Front yard.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25
feet, except as required for arterial and collector streets in
Article 29 of this Title.
      (2)   Where a lot or group of lots have a double frontage, the required
front yard shall be provided on both streets.
      (3)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more streets,
there shall be a front yard on each street side of a corner lot; provided,
however, that the buildable width of a single lot of record, as of the
effective date of this Title, shall not be reduced to less than 35 feet.
      (4)   Where a principal or accessory building existing as of the
effective date of this Title, encroaches upon the required 25 foot front yard,
and where the building is on a single lot of record, as defined in the
definitions section of this Title, established prior to the effective date of
said Title and having an area of not more than 7,500 square feet, an addition
to said building shall be permitted, provided the addition does not encroach
further into the required front yard than the furthest projection of said
building, and providing that said addition represents not more than 50% of the
lot coverage of the existing building.
   (b)   Side yard.
      (1)   There shall be a side yard building setback which shall be one-
third the height of the principal building or 10% of the width of the lot,
whichever is the greater, with a minimum of five feet, and a maximum required
setback of 15 feet. A roof overhang of one foot into the required side yard
setback area is permitted; unless otherwise prescribed and/or approved by the
Planning Commission.
      (2)   Where more than one principal building is constructed on a tract
for hospital use, nursing home use, church use, school use, and other public
uses, the spacing between principal buildings shall not be less than the
average height of the adjacent buildings.
      (3)   Where a principal or accessory building existing as of the
effective date of this Title, encroaches upon the required side yard, and where
the building is on a single lot of record, as defined in the definitions
section of this Title, established prior to the effective date of said Title
and having an area of not more than 7,500 square feet, an addition to said
building shall be permitted, provided the addition does not encroach further
into the required side yard than the furthest projection of said building, and
providing that said addition represents not more than 50% of the lot coverage
of the existing building.
   (c)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
25 feet.
§ 17-1008 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 24 of this Title.
§ 17-1009 PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 25 of this Title.
ARTICLE 11: “R-2" SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
Section
   
17-1101   Intent and purpose of district
   
17-1102   District regulations
   
17-1103   Use regulations
   
17-1104   Intensity of use regulations
   
17-1105   Lot coverage
   
17-1106   Height regulations
   
17-1107   Yard regulations
   
17-1108   Sign regulations
   
17-1109   Parking and loading regulations
§ 17-1101 INTENT AND PURPOSE OF DISTRICT.
   The "R-2" Two-Family Dwelling District is intended for the purpose of
allowing a slightly higher density than in district "R-1", yet retaining the
residential qualities. This district allows duplex uses, single-family attached
dwellings joined to no more than one similar dwelling and single-family homes,
certain community facilities, and certain special uses.
§ 17-1102 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   In the "R-2" District, no building or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended, or
designed for other than one of the uses listed in §
17-1103 below.
§ 17-1103 USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Single-family detached dwellings, providing no more than one dwelling
is placed upon the lot or plot as defined by this Title unless the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   The lot has an area of at least 11,250 square feet.
      (2)   One dwelling is placed to the side of the other dwelling, with no
portion of either unit located behind the other.
      (3)   The foundation walls of the dwellings are separated by at least ten
feet.
   (b)   Residential design manufactured homes.
   (c)   Foster homes.
   (d)   Group homes.
   (e)   Single-family attached dwellings joined to no more than one similar
dwelling.
   (f)   Two-family dwellings (duplex).
   (g)   Boarding, rooming, and lodging houses.
   (h)   Community recreation buildings owned and operated by a public agency.
   (i)   Churches and similar places of worship and parish houses.
   (j)   Golf courses, except miniature golf courses and driving tees operated
for commercial purposes.
   (k)   Hospitals on a parcel of land not less than two acres in size (but not
animal hospitals or mental hospitals).
   (l)   Registered family day care.
   (m)   Public buildings.
   (n)   Public parks, playgrounds, and recreation areas.
   (o)   Raising of crops, trees, shrubs, and grasses not sold on the premises.
   (p)   Nonprofit institutions of an educational, philanthropic, or
eleemosynary nature, but not penal institutions.
   (q)   Nursing homes for the aged and assisted living facilities on a tract
of land not less than two acres in size.
   (r)   Customary accessory uses and structures located on the same lot or
group of lots with the principal use including tennis courts, swimming pools,
private garages, garden houses, barbecue ovens, and fireplaces, but does not
include use unrelated to the principal use of any activity commonly conducted
for gain.
   (s)   Temporary structures incidental to construction work, but only for the
period of such work. Basements and cellars may not be occupied for residential
purposes until the building is complete.
   (t)   The following uses may be allowed by special use permit when
submitted, reviewed, and approved by the Board of Zoning appeals and under such
conditions as the Board may impose:
      (1)   Adult day care.
      (2)   Home occupations.
      (3)   Licensed day care homes.
      (4)   Preschools.
      (5)   Child care centers.
      (6)   Bed and breakfast.
      (7)   Catering business.
§ 17-1104 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   Lots in this district shall be subject to the following minimum size
requirements:
   (a)   Single-family buildings.
      (1)   Buildings served by private water wells and septic systems - five
acres.
      (2)   Buildings served by a public water system and a private septic
system - three acres.
      (3)   Buildings served by a public water system and a public sewer system
- 6,000 square feet.
      (4)   Installation of lagoon systems shall only be permitted upon review
and recommendation of the Wamego Planning Commission. Said review shall
consider the recommendation of the Pottawatomie County Sanitarian.
   (b)   Two-family and single-family attached buildings.
      (1)   If each building or dwelling unit is served by private water wells
and septic systems - five acres each building or dwelling unit.
      (2)   If each building or dwelling unit is served by a public water
system and a private septic system - three acres each building.
      (3)   If each building or dwelling unit is served by a public water
system and sewer system - 3,700 square feet per dwelling unit.
      (4)   If each building or dwelling is served by a shared private water or
sewer system, a basic site plan must be submitted prior to the rezoning process
for Wamego City Staff and Planning Commission review, and the area minimums of
divisions (b)(1) and (b)(3) above may be increased by as much as 40% prior to
development. The recommendations of the Pottawatomie County Sanitarian shall be
considered during review.
   (c)   Dormitories, lodging houses, nursing homes, and boarding houses shall,
in addition to meeting the above requirements for single-family buildings,
provide at least 500 square feet of lot area for each occupant.
   (d)   Minimum lot width shall be as required by the Pottawatomie County
Sanitarian if served by a private water and/or sewer system.
   (e)   Installation of lagoon systems shall only be permitted upon review and
recommendation of the Wamego Planning Commission. Said review shall consider
the recommendation of the Pottawatomie County Sanitarian.
§ 17-1105 LOT COVERAGE.
   The principal building and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 40%
of the lot area.
§ 17-1106 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed 45 feet in height.
§ 17-1107 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Front yard.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25
feet, except as required for arterial and collector streets in
Article 29 of this Title.
      (2)   Where a lot or group of lots have a double frontage, the required
front yard shall be provided on both streets.
      (3)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more streets,
there shall be a front yard on each street side of a corner lot; provided,
however, that the buildable width of a single lot of record as of the effective
date of this Title shall not be reduced to less than 35 feet.
      (4)   Where a principal or accessory building existing as of the
effective date of this Title, encroaches upon the required 25 foot front yard,
and where the building is on a single lot of record, as defined in the
definitions section of this Title, established prior to the effective date of
said Title and having an area of not more than 7,500 square feet, an addition
to said building shall be permitted, provided the addition does not encroach
further into the required front yard than the furthest projection of said
building, and providing that said addition represents not more than 50% of the
lot coverage of the existing building.
   (b)   Side yard.
      (1)   There shall be a side yard building setback which shall be one-
third the height of the principal building or 10% of the width of the lot,
whichever is the greater, with a minimum of five feet and a maximum required
setback of 15 feet. A roof overhang of one foot into the required side yard
setback area is permitted.
      (2)   Where more than one principal building is constructed on a tract
for hospital use, nursing home use, church use, school use, and other public or
quasi-public uses, the spacing of said buildings shall not be less than the
average height of the adjacent buildings.
      (3)   Where a principal or accessory building existing as of the
effective date of this Title, encroaches upon the required side yard, and where
the building is on a single lot of record, as defined in the definitions
section of this Title, established prior to the effective date of said Title
and having an area of not more than 7,500 feet, an addition to said building
shall be permitted, provided the addition does not encroach further into the
required side yard than the furthest projection of said building, and providing
that said addition represents not more than 50% of the lot coverage of the
existing building.
   (c)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard for each principal building in
this district which shall have a depth of not less than 25 feet, except that,
where a single-family attached lot is located at the intersection of two or
more streets, no rear yard shall be required along the common wall.
§ 17-1108 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 24 of this Title.
§ 17-1109 PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 25 of this Title.
ARTICLE 12: “R-3" MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
Section
   
17-1201   Intent and purpose of district
   
17-1202   District regulations
   
17-1203   Use regulations
   
17-1204   Intensity of use regulations
   
17-1205   Lot coverage
   
17-1206   Height regulations
   
17-1207   Yard regulations
   
17-1208   Sign regulations
   
17-1209   Parking and loading regulations
   
17-1210   Landscaping and stormwater management requirements
§ 17-1201 INTENT AND PURPOSE OF DISTRICT.
   The "R-3" Multiple-Family Dwelling District is intended for the purpose of
allowing high residential density land use with the co-mingling of compatible
single-family, single-family attached, and two-family dwellings, apartments,
home occupations, certain community facilities, and certain special uses, yet
retaining the basic residential qualities.
§ 17-1202 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   In the "R-3" District, no building shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended, or
designed for other than one of the uses listed in §
17-1203 below.
§ 17-1203 USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Any use permitted in the "R-2" Two-Family Dwelling District.
   (b)   Multiple-family dwellings.
   (c)   Private clubs, fraternities, sororities, and lodges, except those
where the chief activity is a service customarily carried on as a business.
   (d)   Single-family attached dwellings, joined to either one or two similar
dwelling(s).
   (e)   The following uses may be allowed by special use permit when
submitted, reviewed, and approved by the Board of Zoning appeals, and under
such conditions as the Board may impose:
      (1)   Adult day care.
      (2)   Home occupations.
      (3)   Licensed day care homes.
      (4)   Preschools.
      (5)   Child care centers.
      (6)   Bed and breakfast.
      (7)   Catering business.
§ 17-1204 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   Lots in this district shall be subject to the following minimum size
requirements:
   (a)   Single-family buildings, same as "R-2" District requirements (see §
17-1104(a)).
   (b)   Two-family and single-family attached buildings, same as "R-2"
District requirements (see §
17-1104(b)).
   (c)   Dormitories, lodging houses, nursing homes, and boarding houses, same
as "R-2" District requirements (see §
17-1104(c)).
   (d)   Multi-family buildings.
      (1)   If the building or buildings are not to be served by a public water
and/or sewer system, a site plan must be submitted to the Wamego City Staff
prior to the rezoning, or consideration of the development, by the Wamego
Planning Commission. The recommendations of the Pottawatomie County Sanitarian
shall be considered during review.
      (2)   If the building or buildings are to be served by a public water
and/or sewer system, the minimum lot area is 10,500 square feet for not to
exceed four families. In the case of more than four families in a multiple
dwelling, there shall be at least 1,500 square feet per family.
   (e)   Minimum lot width shall be as required by the Pottawatomie County
Sanitarian if served by a private water and/or sewer system.
   (f)   Where a single lot of record as of the effective date of this Title,
as defined in the definitions section of this Title, has less area than that
specified for multiple-family dwellings, and its boundary lines, along their
entire length, touched land under other ownership on the effective date of this
Title and have not since been changed, such lot may be used only for single-
family dwelling purposes, or for any other non-dwelling use permitted in this
district, provided the structure conforms with other yard and height
requirements of this district and provided safe and effective sanitary controls
can be met as determined by the Pottawatomie County Sanitarian.
§ 17-1205 LOT COVERAGE.
   The principal building and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 40%
of the lot area.
§ 17-1206 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed 45 feet in height.
§ 17-1207 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Front yard.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25
feet, except as required for arterial and collector streets in
Article 29 of this Title.
      (2)   Where a lot or lots have a double frontage, the required front yard
shall be provided on both streets.
      (3)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more streets,
there shall be a front yard on each street side of the corner lot; provided,
however, that the buildable width of a single lot of record, as of the
effective date of this Title, shall not be reduced to less than 35 feet.
      (4)   Where a principal or accessory building existing as of the
effective date of this Title, encroaches upon the required 25 foot front yard,
and where the building is on a single lot of record, as defined in the
definitions section of this Title, established prior to the effective date of
said Title and having an area of not more than 7,500 square feet, an addition
to said building shall be permitted, provided the addition does not encroach
further into the required front yard than the furthest projection of said
building, and providing that said addition represents not more than 50% of the
lot coverage of the existing building.
   (b)   Side yard.
      (1)   There shall be a side yard building setback which shall be one-
third the height of the principal building or 10% of the width of the lots
whichever is the greater, with a minimum of five feet, except that, for single-
family attached dwellings, no side yard shall be required along the common
wall. The maximum required setback is 15 feet. A roof overhang of one foot into
the required side yard setback area is permitted.
      (2)   Where more than one principal building is constructed on a tract
for hospitals, nursing homes, churches, schools, institutions of higher
learning, public buildings, or other public or quasi-public uses, the spacing
of said buildings shall not be less than the average height of the adjacent
buildings.
      (3)   Where a principal or accessory building existing as of the
effective date of this Title, encroaches upon the required side yard, and where
the building is on a single lot of record, as defined in the definitions
section of this Title, established prior to the effective date of said Title
and having an area of not more than 7,500 square feet, an addition to said
building shall be permitted, provided the addition does not encroach further
into the required side yard than the furthest projection of said building, and
providing that said addition represents not more than 50% of the lot coverage
of the existing building.
   (c)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard for each principal building in
this district which shall have a depth of not less than 25 feet, except that,
where a single-family attached lot is located at the intersection of two or
more streets, no rear yard shall be required along the common wall.
§ 17-1208 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 24 of this Title.
§ 17-1209 PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   See Article 25of this Title.
§ 17-1210 LANDSCAPING AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   See
Article 26 of this Title.
ARTICLE 13: “PUD” PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
Section
   
17-1301   Intent
   
17-1302   Permitted uses
   
17-1303   General provisions
   
17-1304   Standards and conditions for Planned Unit Development
   
17-1305   Application for approval of preliminary plan
   
17-1306   Final plan approval
   
17-1307   Recording
   
17-1308   Enforcement and modification of provisions of the plan
   
17-1309   Amendments
   
17-1310   Platting
§ 17-1301 INTENT.
   (a)   The intent of the Planned Unit Development District is to encourage
innovation in residential, commercial and industrial development by greater
variety in type, design, and layout of buildings; to encourage a more efficient
use of land reflecting changes in the technology of land development; to
encourage the expansion of urban areas incorporating the best features of
modern design while conserving the value of land; and to provide a procedure
which relates the type, design, and layout of development to the particular
site and the particular demand at the time of development in a manner
consistent with the preservation of property values within established
neighborhoods.
   (b)   The "PUD" District in this Title is an overlay zone which may be used
in conjunction with any of the standard residential, commercial or industrial
zones. Although the specific conditions within this district are predetermined,
the location of a proposed district must be carefully reviewed to assure that
these conditions can be met. A development plan shall be submitted by each
applicant for "PUD" zoning in accordance with the provisions and conditions
that follow.
§ 17-1302 PERMITTED USES.
   All uses, however such uses, must be approved as shown on the development
plan as specified in the regulations.
§ 17-1303 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (a)   The Planning Commission shall make a report to the Governing Body
setting forth its reasons for recommendation of approval or denial of the
application, along with specific evidence and facts showing that the proposed
Planned Unit Development meets or does not meet the following conditions:
      (1)   The Planned Unit Development shall be in general conformity with
the provisions of the adopted comprehensive plan.
      (2)   The Planned Unit Development shall not have a substantially adverse
effect on the development of the neighboring area.
   (b)   A Planned Unit Development District may be established exclusively for
residential, commercial or industrial development or any combination of those
types of development.
   (c)   The minimum size allowed for a Planned Unit Development shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Residential: two acres.
      (2)   Commercial: three acres.
      (3)   Industrial: five acres.
   (d)   Any "PUD" which has combined two or more types of use into a single
plan shall have a minimum allowable size for the "PUD" equal to the sum of the
minimum land areas required for each of the two or more types contained
therein.
§ 17-1304 STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS FOR PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (a)   Upon recommendation of the Planning Commission the Governing Body may
from time to time adopt general policies or specific rules and regulations for
Planned Unit Developments and place said policies or rules and regulations of
public record in the office of the Zoning Administrator; provided said policies
and/or rules and regulations are not inconsistent with the adopted standards
and conditions; and provided that no policies, rules or regulations shall be
revised or added to, so as to be applicable to a specific proposal for a
Planned Unit Development after an application for preliminary approval of a
specific development plan has been filed.
   (b)   Planned Unit Development shall not be inconsistent with the following
general standards for use of land, and the use, type, bulk, design, and
location of buildings, the density or intensity of use, open space, public
facilities and the development by geographic division of the site.
      (1)   The applicant shall satisfy the Planning Commission and the
Governing Body that he has the ability to carry out the proposed plan and shall
prepare and submit a schedule of construction. The proposed construction shall
begin within a period of 18 months following approval of a final plan by the
Governing Body, and a minimum of 50% of the total planned construction shall be
completed within a period of three years following such approval or the
approval of the plan. The period of time established for the completion of the
development may be modified from time to time by the Governing Body upon the
showing of good cause by the developer.
      (2)   The applicant may designate divisible geographic sections of the
entire parcel to be developed as a unit, and shall, in such case, specify
reasonable periods within which developments of each such unit must be
commenced. In the case of residential Planned Unit Developments, the Governing
Body may permit in each unit deviations from the number of dwelling units per
acre established for the entire planned development, provided such deviation
shall be adjusted for in other sections of the development so that the number
of dwelling units per acre authorized for the entire planned development is not
affected.
      (3)   The developer shall provide and record easements and covenants,
shall make such other arrangements, and shall furnish such performance bonds,
escrow deposit, or other financial guarantees as may be determined by the
Planning Commission and approved by the Governing Body, to be reasonably
required to assure performance in accordance with the development plan and to
protect the public interest in the event of abandonment of said plan before
completion.
      (4)   The site shall be accessible from public roads that are adequate to
carry the traffic that will be imposed upon them by the proposed development.
The streets and driveways on the site of the proposed development shall be
adequate to serve the residents or occupants of the proposed development. If it
is determined that traffic control signals are required to prevent traffic
hazards or congestion in adjacent streets, the control signals shall be
provided at the developer's expense.
      (5)   The development shall not impose an undue burden on public services
and facilities, such as water and sewer systems and fire and police protection.
      (6)   The entire tract or parcel of land to be submitted for Planned Unit
Development shall be held in single ownership or control, or if there are two
or more owners, the application for such Planned Unit Development shall be
filed jointly.
      (7)   The location and arrangement of structures, parking areas, walks,
lighting, and appurtenant facilities shall be compatible with the surrounding
land uses, and any part of a Planned Unit Development not used for structures,
parking and loading areas, or access-ways shall be landscaped or otherwise
improved.
      (8)   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with
Article 25 of this Title.
      (9)   When a commercial or industrial use within a Planned Unit
Development district abuts a residential district, a solid or semi-solid fence
or wall at least six feet, but not more than eight feet high and having a
visual density of not less than 90% per square foot, shall be provided adjacent
to any adjoining residential district except where the commercial or industrial
development is separated from the residential zone by a street right-of-way. A
ten foot wide landscape buffer which shall consist of trees, shrubs and
evergreens located along the property line which shall be maintained by the
owner or owners of the property in the Planned Unit Development district, may
be substituted for the solid or semi-solid fence when approved by the city.
      (10)   All commercial and industrial buildings shall set back not less
than 45 feet from the right-of-way of any street and 20 feet from any district
boundary line that does not abut a street right-of-way. Additional setback from
a heavily traveled thoroughfare may be required by the Governing Body, when
recommended by the Planning Commission for protection of health, safety, and
general welfare.
      (11)   Building coverage shall not exceed the following percentages of
the net developable area of each individual parcel and of the total development
for each type of Planned Unit Development:
         (A)   Residential: 40%maximum.
         (B)   Commercial: 35% maximum.
         (C)   Industrial: 35%maximum.
      (12)   A minimum of 30% percent of the net area of the part of Planned
Unit Development reserved for residential development shall be provided for
open space as defined by these regulations. At least one-half of this open
space shall be provided for the leisure and recreational use of all "PUD"
residents and maintained by owners of property in the development as through a
homeowner's association in the case of a townhouse or a residential
subdivision. The common open space shall be developed for appropriate
recreational facilities and a minimum of 50% percent of the proposed
recreational facilities shall be constructed prior to the development of one-
half of the project, and all recreational facilities shall be constructed by
the time the project is 75% developed.
      (13)   The "PUD" shall include such provisions for the ownership and
maintenance of the common open spaces as are reasonably necessary to insure its
continuity, care, conservation and maintenance, and to insure that remedial
measures will be available to the Governing Body if the common open space is
permitted to deteriorate, or is not maintained in a condition consistent with
the best interests of the Planned Unit Development or of the entire community.
      (14)   Modifications of the zoning or other regulations that would
otherwise be applicable to the site may be permitted, providing the design of
the Planned Unit Development and the amenities incorporated in it are not
inconsistent with the interest of the public generally.
      (15)   No residential use shall have direct access onto an arterial
street.
      (16)   All commercial or industrial areas must have access to a collector
or arterial street, however, no individual commercial or industrial use may
have direct access onto collector or arterial streets, unless deemed necessary
by the Planning Commission and approved by the Governing Body.
      (17)   Sidewalks shall be built to city specifications along all public
and private streets, however, an alternative pedestrian and sidewalk plan may
be developed which provides pedestrians access between each use in the Planned
Unit Development.
      (18)   Consideration shall be given for the provision of bicycle traffic
along collector and arterial streets or along the approved pedestrian-sidewalk
system.
      (19)   The Planned Unit Development shall be subject to the stormwater
management requirements of
Article 26 of this Title.
§ 17-1305 APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (a)   An application for a Planned Unit Development shall be handled in the
same manner prescribed for amending the zoning ordinance. The same requirements
for notice, advertisement of public hearing, protests and adoption shall be
required as in conventional zoning.
   (b)   The applicant shall prepare and submit ten copies of the preliminary
development plan for review and recommendation by the Planning Commission,
which said plan shall include:
      (1)   A site plan showing:
         (A)   Contours at intervals of one foot.
         (B)   General location, size and use of all proposed structures in
conformance with the yard requirements; or designation of individual lots if
such lots are proposed to be sold to individual owners.
         (C)   All points of ingress and egress, driveways, circulation aisles,
parking lots, parking spaces, and service areas.
         (D)   All streets adjoining subject property and the width of the
existing right-of-way.
         (E)   Areas set aside for public and private open space with the type
of recreational facilities planned for each area indicated.
         (F)   Designation of individual parcels if the proposed development is
to be set up in separate construction phases.
         (G)   Location of required screening.
         (H)   Location of natural features such as ponds, tree clusters and
rock out-cropping.
         (I)    Existing development on adjacent properties within 200 feet.
      (2)   The above-described site plan shall also include a section
designated as "General Provisions" and said section shall include the following
items when said items are applicable.
         (A)   Net area square feet or         acres. (Note: Net area does not
include land dedicated or necessary to be dedicated for public street right-of-
way. If more than one parcel is proposed, designate net area by parcel as well
as total net area.)
         (B)   Density shall not exceed         dwelling units per acre or a
total of       dwelling units for the entire plan. No parcel or unit of the
plan shall exceed a density of           units per acre for the individual
parcel by more than 20%.
         (C)   Building coverage shall not exceed          of the net area of
the Planned Unit Development by individual or total development.
         (D)   A minimum of        percent of the area planned for residential
development shall be provided for common open space as defined by this
regulation. (Note: Normally, this figure should be approximately 50%.)
         (E)   A minimum of 50% of the recreational facilities shall be
constructed prior to the development of one-half of the project and all
recreational facilities shall be constructed by the time the project is 75%
developed.
         (F)   If more than one parcel is proposed, a statement relating to the
sequence of development shall be included.
         (G)   Required number of off-street parking spaces:              .
         (H)   Gross floor area proposed:                     square feet
(Commercial “PUD” only).
         (I)   All proposed land uses shall be listed by parcel.
      (3)   A statement or adequate drawings shall be included describing the
manner for the disposition of sanitary waste and storm water.
      (4)   The full legal description of the boundaries of the property or
properties to be included in the Planned Unit Development.
      (5)   A vicinity map showing the general arrangement of streets within an
area of 1,000 feet from the boundaries of the proposed Planned Unit
Development.
      (6)   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the tract
to effectuate the proposed plan, including a statement of all the ownership and
beneficial interest in the tract of land and the proposed development.
      (7)   When a Planned Unit Development includes provisions for a common
open space, or recreational facilities, a statement describing the provision
that is to be made for the care and maintenance for such open space or
recreational facilities. If it is proposed that such open space be owned and/or
maintained by any entity other than a governmental authority, copies of the
proposed articles of incorporation and by-laws of such entity shall be
submitted.
      (8)   Copies of any restrictive covenants that are to be recorded with
respect to property included in the planned development district.
      (9)   In the case where a Planned Unit Development calls for construction
in units over a period of years, a schedule showing the proposed item and
sequence within which the applications for final approval of all sections of
the Planned Unit Development are intended to be filed shall be submitted.
      (10)   A written statement by the applicant shall be submitted setting
forth the reasons why in his opinion the Planned Unit Development would be in
the public interest and would be consistent with the intent of the Governing
Body on Planned Unit Development.
   (c)   Action by Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall, within
60 days after a preliminary Planned Unit Development is filed, hold a public
hearing on said development after giving notice as required by statute for
hearings on amendments. Said public hearing may be adjourned from time to time
and within a reasonable period of time after the conclusion of said public
hearing, the Planning Commission shall prepare and transmit to the Governing
Body and the applicant specific findings of fact with respect to the
preliminary Planned Unit Development. The Planning Commission may recommend
disapproval, approval, or approval with amendments, conditions, or
restrictions.
   (d)   Action by Governing Body. The Governing Body shall or shall not
approve the preliminary development plan and authorize the submitting of the
final development plan. If the Governing Body approves the preliminary plan, it
shall pass an ordinance designating the tract with an overlay of Planned Unit
Development and so order the official zoning map to be amended.
   (e)   Substantial or significant changes in the preliminary Planned Unit
Development shall only be made after rehearing and re-approval as required for
the initial approval of the preliminary plan.
§ 17-1306 FINAL PLAN APPROVAL.
   (a)   After approval of a preliminary plan, the applicant shall submit an
application for final approval. Said final application may include the entire
Planned Unit Development or may be for a unit or section thereof as set forth
in the approval of the preliminary plan and shall include changes required in
the approval of the preliminary plan. The application shall include ten copies
of such drawings, specifications, covenants, easements, conditions and form of
performance bond as set forth in the approval of the preliminary plan and in
accordance with the conditions established in the zoning regulations for
Planned Unit Developments.
   (b)   A plan submitted for final approval shall be deemed to be in
substantial compliance with the plan previously given tentative approval,
provided any modification by the landowner of the plan as tentatively approved
does not:
      (1)   Vary the proposed gross residential density or intensity of use by
more than 5% or involve a reduction in the area set aside for common open
space, nor the substantial relocation of such area; or
      (2)   Increase by more than 10% the floor area proposed for non-
residential use; nor
      (3)   Increase by more than 5% the total ground area covered by buildings
nor involve a substantial change in the height of buildings.
      (4)   Substantially change the design of plan so as to significantly
alter, as determined by the Planning Commission:
         (A)   Pedestrian or vehicular traffic flow.
         (B)   The juxtaposition of different land uses.
         (C)   The relation of open space to residential development.
         (D)   The proposed phasing of construction.
   (c)   (1)   A public hearing need not be held for the approval of a final
plan if it is in substantial compliance with the approved preliminary plan, and
a public hearing need not be held to consider modifications on location and
design of streets or facilities for water, storm water, sanitary sewers, or
other public facilities.
      (2)   In the event a public hearing is not required for final approval
and the application for final approval has been filed, together with all
drawings, specifications and other documents in support thereof, the Planning
Commission shall, within a reasonable period of time of such filing, recommend
that such plan be given final approval and forward its recommendation to the
Governing Body for its final approval.
   (d)   In the event that the final plan submitted contains substantial
changes from the approved preliminary development plan, the applicant shall
resubmit the original plan. This preliminary development plan shall be modified
in the same manner prescribed in this Article for original approval.
   (e)   In the event that a plan or section thereof is given final approval
and thereafter the land owner shall abandon said plan or section, he shall so
notify the city thereof in writing. In the event the land owner shall fail to
commence the Planned Unit Development within 18 months after final approval has
been granted, such final approval shall terminate and shall be deemed null and
void unless such time period is extended by the Planning Commission upon
written application by the land owner.
§ 17-1307 RECORDING.
   Any approved final plan shall be filed of record with the Register of Deeds.
§ 17-1308 ENFORCEMENT AND MODIFICATION OF PROVISIONS OF THE PLAN.
   To further the mutual interest of the residents and owners of the Planned
Unit Development and of the public in the preservation of the integrity of the
plan, as finally approved, and to insure that modifications, if any, in the
plan shall not impair the reasonable reliance of the said residents and owners
upon the provisions of the plan, nor result in changes that would adversely
affect the public interest, the enforcement and modification of the provisions
of the plan as finally approved, whether recorded by plan, covenant, easement,
or otherwise shall be subject to the following provisions:
   (a)   Enforcement by the municipality. The provisions of the plan relating
to:
      (1)   The use of land and the use, bulk, and location of buildings and
structures;
      (2)   The quality and location of common open space; and
      (3)   The intensity of use or the density of residential units shall run
in favor of the municipality and shall be enforceable in law or in equity by
the municipality, without limitation on any owners or regulation otherwise
granted the municipality by law.
   (b)   Enforcement by the residents and owners. All provisions of the plan
shall run in favor of the residents and owners of the planned development, but
only to the extent expressly provided in the plan and in accordance with the
terms of the plan, and to the extent said provisions, whether recorded by plat,
covenant, easement, or otherwise may be enforced at law or equity by said
residents and owners, acting individually, jointly, or through an organization
designated in the plan to act on their behalf; provided, however, that no
provisions of the plan shall be implied to exist in favor of residents and
owners of the Planned Unit Development except as to those portions of the plan
which have been finally approved and have been recorded.
   (c)   Modifications of the plan by the municipality. All those provisions of
the plan authorized to be enforced by the municipality under division (a) of
this section may be modified, removed or released by the municipality (except
grants or easements relating to the service or equipment of a public utility
unless expressly consented to by the public utility), subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   No such modification, removal or release of the provisions of the
plan by the municipality shall affect the rights of the residents and owners of
the Planned Unit Development to maintain and enforce those provisions, at law
or equity, as provided in division (b) of this section.
      (2)   No modification, removal or release of the provisions of the plan
by the municipality shall be permitted except upon a finding by the municipal
authority, following a public hearing called and held in accordance with the
provisions of this section, that the same is consistent with the efficient
development and preservation of the entire Planned Unit Development, does not
adversely affect either the enjoyment of land abutting upon or across a street
from the Planned Unit Development or the public interest, and is not granted
solely to confer a special benefit upon any person.
   (d)   Modification by the residents. Residents and owners of the Planned
Unit Development may, to the extent and in the manner expressly authorized by
the provision of the plan, modify, remove or release their rights to enforce
the provisions of the plan, but no such action shall affect the right of the
municipality to enforce the provisions of the plan in accordance with the
provisions of division (a) of this section.
§ 17-1309 AMENDMENTS.
   A Planned Unit Development District ordinance or an approved preliminary or
final development plan may be amended in the same manner prescribed in this
Article for approval of a preliminary or final plan. Application for amendment
may be by the homeowner's association or 51% of the owners of the property
within the "PUD".
§ 17-1310 PLATTING.
   For un-platted tracts or tracts being re-platted, the approval of the
preliminary Planned Unit Development shall be considered as the approval of a
preliminary plat. To complete the platting process, the applicant need only
submit a final plat. Said final plat shall be in accordance with the
subdivision regulations.
ARTICLE 14: “M-H” MANUFACTURED HOME OVERLAY DISTRICT
Section
   
17-1401   Intent and purpose of district
   
17-1402   District regulations
   
17-1403   Use regulations
   
17-1404   Intensity of use regulations
   
17-1405   Lot coverage
   
17-1406   Height regulations
   
17-1407   Yard regulations
   
17-1408   Sign regulations
   
17-1409   Parking and loading regulations
   
17-1410   Special manufactured home requirements
§ 17-1401 INTENT AND PURPOSE OF DISTRICT.
   (a)   It is intended that this district be established to permit
manufactured homes on permanent foundations where a lot or a group of lots is
owned by the manufactured home owner.
   (b)   This district is intended to be appended to any of the residential
districts as an overlay zone to provide an opportunity for individual siting
and use of manufactured homes for single-family dwellings consistent with the
use and density characteristics of the surrounding neighborhood.
§ 17-1402 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   In the "M-H" District no building shall be used and no building or structure
shall be erected, altered, or enlarged which is arranged, intended, or designed
for other than one of the uses in §
17-1403 below.
§ 17-1403 USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Manufactured homes on permanent foundations.
   (b)   Uses and structures permitted under the provisions of the regulations
of the parent district, of which this district is made a part.
§ 17-1404 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   A manufactured home in an "M-H" District may be located on a lot which
contains an area of not less than 6,000 square feet with an average width of
not less than 50 feet if served by a public water and sewer system. If a
private water and/or sewer is proposed, the minimum lot size requirements of
the parent district, of which this district is made a part, shall apply, and
lot width shall be as required by the Pottawatomie County Sanitarian.
§ 17-1405 LOT COVERAGE.
   A manufactured home and accessory buildings shall not cover more than 40% of
the lot area.
§ 17-1406 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The height requirements of the parent district, of which this district is
made a part, shall be the maximum height requirements.
§ 17-1407 YARD REGULATIONS.
   The yard requirements of the parent district, of which this district is made
a part, shall be the minimum yard requirements.
§ 17-1408 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   The sign regulations of the parent district, of which this district is made
a part, shall be the minimum requirements for signs unless otherwise prescribed
in
Article 24 of this Title, or unless otherwise approved by the Planning
Commission.
§ 17-1409 PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   The parking and loading requirements of the parent district, of which this
district is made a part, shall be the minimum requirements unless otherwise
prescribed and/or approved by the Planning Commission.
§ 17-1410 SPECIAL MANUFACTURED HOME REQUIREMENTS.
   Manufactured homes sited on individually owned lots shall be subject to the
following special requirements:
   (a)   Manufactured homes shall be mounted on a foundation of permanent
design.
   (b)   All open space below such manufactured home not completely enclosed by
the permanent foundation shall be skirted, blocked, or otherwise screened using
solid materials which will assure positive closure.
   (c)   Each manufactured home shall be an independent dwelling unit,
connected to all available utilities.
   (d)   Each manufactured home shall be provided with anchors and tie-downs of
adequate capacity to provide stability against high winds and adverse weather
conditions.
   (e)   Each independent manufactured home shall be sited in such a manner as
to preserve the visual character of the neighborhood, which shall include
provisions for landscaping and other site improvements as well as off-street
parking.
   (f)   Each manufactured home shall bear a certification plate pursuant to
the "National Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974", 4Z U.S.C.
5401 et seq., as amended.
ARTICLE 15: “M-P” MANUFACTURED HOME PARK
Section
   
17-1501   Intent and purpose of district
   
17-1502   District regulations
   
17-1503   Use regulations
   
17-1504   Park requirements
   
17-1505   Application procedure
§ 17-1501 INTENT AND PURPOSE OF DISTRICT.
   It is the intent of the "M-P" Manufactured Home Park District to permit low
density manufactured home uses in a park-like atmosphere. The Manufactured Home
Park District is intended for those areas where the owner proposes to develop
and rent or lease individual sites.
§ 17-1502 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   In the "M-P" District, no building shall be used and no building shall be
erected, altered, or enlarged, which is arranged, intended, or designed for
other than uses listed in §
17-1503 below.
§ 17-1503 USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Independent manufactured homes located on a well-drained concrete
slab.
   (b)   Group homes.
   (c)   Foster homes.
   (d)   Parks and playgrounds.
   (e)   Manufactured home service buildings, such as coin-operated washers and
dryers, for exclusive use of residents of the manufactured home park.
   (f)   Office and/or dwelling unit, either conventional or manufactured for
manager of the manufactured home park.
   (g)   Storage building for vehicles used to tow manufactured homes.
   (h)   Storage building for blocks, skirts, pipe, and other material and
equipment required to set up a manufactured home.
   (i)   Accessory uses and buildings, including swimming pools, bath houses,
patios, etc., for exclusive use of manufactured home residents.
   (j)   The following uses may be allowed by special use permit when
submitted, reviewed, and approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals, and under
such conditions as the Board may impose:
      (1)   Adult day care.
      (2)   Home occupations.
      (3)   Licensed day care homes.
      (4)   Preschools.
      (5)   Child care centers.
§ 17-1504 PARK REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   A tract to be used for a manufactured housing park shall be large
enough to accommodate 25 or more manufactured units.
   (b)   Each manufactured housing park space shall be not less than 35 feet
wide.
   (c)   Manufactured housing parks shall have a maximum density of eight
manufactured units per gross acre, and each space shall have not less than
3,000 square feet.
   (d)   The manufactured housing park shall be located on a well-drained site
properly graded to insure adequate drainage. Development of the park shall be
subject to the stormwater management requirements of
Article 26 of this Title.
   (e)   Manufactured housing parks shall provide screening when they abut
residential property.
   (f)   Each manufactured housing park having more than ten lots for rent
shall reserve an area for child recreation according to the following schedule:
 
Number of Manufactured Housing Units Minimum Area of Playground
0-10                                 None required
10-20                                1,500 square feet
21-25                                2,500 square feet
25 and over                          100 square feet per lot
 
   (g)   The recreation area shall be located so as to be free from hazards and
provided with play equipment.
   (h)   All new manufactured housing parks shall provide a storm shelter of
adequate size to accommodate all occupants. All existing manufactured housing
parks (at the date of the adoption of this Title) are encouraged to provide
storm shelters.
   (i)   The manufactured housing storm shelter may be approved, after the
submission of plans by the applicant, by the Zoning Administrator. The shelter
shall be constructed below ground level as a concrete structure or other
material approved by the city, and provided with heavy metal doors. It shall be
located so as to be accessible to the park residents in a central place with
access to the shelter clearly marked.
   (j)   Manufactured housing units shall be located so that there is at least
a 20 foot clearance between manufactured houses; provided, however, with
respect to manufactured houses parked end-to-end, the clearance shall not be
less than ten feet. No manufactured housing unit shall be located less than ten
feet from the front driveway.
   (k)   No manufactured housing unit shall be located less than 25 feet from
any property line of the manufactured housing park or from any community
building within the park, including any washroom, toilet, laundry facilities,
or office.
   (l)   All manufactured housing spaces shall abut on an internal driveway
that is not less than 24 feet in width; provided, however, that no on-street
parking is permitted. If parallel parking is permitted on one side of the
street, the width shall be increased to 28 feet, and if parallel parking is
permitted on both sides of the street, the width shall be increased to 36 feet.
Such driveways shall have unobstructed access to a public street or highway and
shall have, as a minimum, a gravel surface or be paved and well maintained and
lighted.
   (m)   Manufactured housing parks containing more than 20 units shall provide
each lot with a concrete pad for parking two vehicles separate from the road.
The minimum pad size shall be 14 feet wide and 16 feet in length. In parks
containing less than 20 units, the parking space may be constructed of crushed
rock finished to a depth of eight inches.
   (n)   All roadways and walks within the manufactured housing park shall be
hard surfaced and provided with night lighting using lamps spaced at intervals
of not more than 100 feet.
   (o)   All electrical distribution systems and telephone service systems to
each manufactured housing space, except outlets and risers, shall be
underground. Each manufactured housing space shall be provided with a 110-volt
and 220-volt service with a minimum 100-ampere individual service outlet.
   (p)   Whenever master television antenna systems including cable systems,
are to be installed, the complete plans and specifications for the system must
be submitted for approval. Distribution to individual manufactured housing
spaces shall be underground and shall terminate adjacent to the electrical
outlet.
   (q)   Laundry facilities for the exclusive use of the manufactured housing
occupants may be provided in a service building.
   (r)   An adequate supply of pure water for drinking and domestic purposes
shall be supplied by pipes to all buildings and manufactured housing spaces
within the park. Each manufactured housing space shall be provided with a cold
water tap at least four inches above the ground. An adequate supply of hot
water shall be provided at all times in the service buildings for all washing
and laundry facilities.
   (s)   All manufactured housing units within the "M-P" District shall be
connected to an approved public water supply and an approved sanitary sewer
system with at least a four-inch sewer connection to each manufactured housing
unit. The sewer connection shall be provided with suitable fittings so that a
water-tight connection can be made between the manufactured housing drain and
the sewer connection. Such individual unit connections shall be so constructed
that they can be closed when not linked to a manufactured housing unit and
shall be trapped in such a manner as to maintain them in an odor-free
condition.
   (t)   Each manufactured housing unit shall be secured by anchoring the
superstructure against uplift, sliding, rotation, and overturning.
   (u)   Outdoor laundry drying space of adequate area and suitable location
shall be provided and indicated upon required plan.
   (v)   The owner or operator shall include with the required plan the method
of refuse collection and the location of refuse containers. Refuse and garbage
handling methods shall meet the following minimum requirements:
      (1)   Storage collection and disposal of refuse in a park shall be so
conducted as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding
areas, accidents, fire hazards or air pollution.
      (2)   All refuse shall be stored in fly-tight, water-tight, rodent-proof
containers. Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to
properly store all refuse.
      (3)   Refuse racks shall be provided for all refuse containers. Such
racks shall be designed as to prevent the containers from being tipped, to
minimize spillage and container deterioration and to facilitate cleaning around
them.
      (4)   Refuse and garbage shall be removed from the park at least once
each week. All refuse shall be collected and transported in covered vehicles or
covered containers.
      (5)   The park owner shall insure that container at all stands are
emptied regularly and maintained in a useable sanitary condition.
   (w)   If only independent manufactured housing spaces are to be provided, no
service building will be required; however, when such service building is
required, it shall comply with the following regulations:
      (1)   Be located 20 feet or more from any manufactured housing unit.
      (2)   Be adequately lighted.
      (3)   Have the interior finished with moisture-resistant material to
permit frequent washing and cleaning.
      (4)   Provide at least one lavatory, water closet, and shower for each
sex; one laundry tray, one floor drain, and hot and cold water.
      (5)   Have adequate heating facilities for the building and equipment
which will furnish an ample supply of heated water during time of peak demands.
      (6)   Have all rooms well ventilated with all openings effectively
screened.
   (x)   When liquefied petroleum gas is used in a mobile home park, containers
for such gas shall not hold more than 25 gallons water capacity, shall be the
liquefied petroleum gas containers approved by the United States Commerce
Commission for its intended purposes, and shall be attached to the mobile home
in a manner approved by the Liquefied Petroleum Gas Association.
   (y)   A solid or semi-solid fence or wall, minimum six feet, maximum eight
feet high, shall be provided between the manufactured home park district and
any adjoining property or property immediately across the alley which is zoned
for residential purposes other than for manufactured homes. Said fence shall be
so located as defined by this regulation. In lieu of said fence or wall, a
landscape buffer may be provided not less than 15 feet in width, and said
landscape buffer shall be planted with coniferous and deciduous plant material
so as to provide proper screening for the park. When the landscape buffer is
used in lieu of the fence or wall, the landscape buffer shall not be included
as any part of a required rear yard for a mobile home space. The fence, wall,
or landscape buffer shall be properly policed and maintained by the owner.
   (z)   The owner or operator shall include with the required plan a budget
for financing the proposed improvements.
§ 17-1505 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (a)   The applicant for a manufactured housing park shall prepare or cause
to be prepared an application for rezoning and a development plan and shall
present ten copies of the plan for review by the Planning Commission. The
development plan shall show topography and the location and size of:
      (1)   Manufactured housing sites.
      (2)   Service buildings.
      (3)   Off-street parking areas.
      (4)   Electrical outlets.
      (5)   Sewer outlets.
      (6)   Water outlets.
      (7)   Water lines.
      (8)   Sewer lines.
      (9)   Recreational areas.
      (10)   Landscaped areas and walls or fences.
      (11)   Roadways.
      (12)   Sidewalks.
      (13)   Storm shelter.
   (b)   Following a rezoning hearing, as required by law and preliminary
approval of the development plan, the Planning Commission shall submit the plan
together with a record of the hearing plus its formal recommendations to the
Governing Body for final approval.
   (c)   When final approvals have been obtained, the Zoning Administrator
shall issue a permit to operate the manufactured housing park.
   (d)   Upon the issuance of the permit for a manufactured home park or court,
the city shall have the authority to have said manufactured home inspected by
the proper inspecting officer of the city, and if it shall be found that the
holder of said permit has made any false or misleading statements in his
application or has placed or caused to be placed more manufactured homes in
said manufactured home park or court than provided for and set forth in said
application for permit, or that said holder of said permit has violated or
caused to be violated any provision of this Article, the city Governing Body
shall have the power to revoke said permit.
   (e)   If the city shall determine upon proper inspection by the inspecting
officer of the city, that the sanitary condition of the manufactured home park
shall have become so unsanitary as to endanger health or welfare of occupants
of said manufactured home park or the surrounding community, or that said
sanitary facilities have become inadequate to properly protect the occupants of
said manufactured park, the city Governing Body shall have the power to require
the holder of said manufactured home park permit, within ten days, to set said
manufactured home park in proper sanitary condition. If, upon notice from the
city to the holder of the permit as aforesaid, the owner or manager of said
manufactured home park shall fail or refuse to place said park or court in
sanitary condition, the city Governing Body shall have the right to revoke said
permit.
   (f)   Whenever a property zoned "M-P" ceases to be used for such purposes
for a period of one year, the Planning Commission shall initiate action and
hold a public hearing to rezone said property back to its former zoning
district classification.
   (g)   After the effective date of this Title, no new manufactured housing
park may be operated and no existing park expanded, except in accordance with
these regulations and under permit from the Zoning Administrator.
ARTICLE 16: “P-I” PUBLIC AND INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT
Section
   
17-1601   Intent and purpose of district
   
17-1602   District regulations
   
17-1603   Use regulations
   
17-1604   Development master plan required
   
17-1605   Intensity of use regulations
   
17-1606   Height regulations
   
17-1607   Yard regulations
   
17-1608   Sign regulations
   
17-1609   Parking and loading regulations
   
17-1610   Landscaping and stormwater management requirements
   
17-1611   Traffic regulations
§ 17-1601 INTENT AND PURPOSE OF DISTRICT.
   (a)   The "P-I" Public and Institutional District is established for the
purpose of assuring that the growth and expansion of the schools and other
major public institutions within the city may be continued in a planned,
harmonious, efficient, and orderly manner, with provision for the convenience,
safety, health, and general welfare of the public.
   (b)   The district is intended to provide for public, quasi-public,
institutional, social, philanthropic organizations and similar uses in one or
more buildings or campus. This district may accommodate the individual needs of
organization members, students, public employees and long-term care residents.
Special design provisions may be made for parking, playgrounds, outdoor plazas
and event areas.
§ 17-1602 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   In the "P-I" District, no building or land shall be used, and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered, or enlarged, which is arranged, intended,
or designed for other than one of the uses listed in §
17-1603 below.
§ 17-1603 USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Single-family dwellings.
   (b)   Residential design manufactured housing.
   (c)   Colleges and universities of higher learning, including dormitory
accommodations.
   (d)   Vocational-technical schools.
   (e)   Public and private elementary and secondary schools.
   (f)   Hospitals.
   (g)   Libraries
   (h)   Nursing homes.
   (i)   Churches and similar places of worship.
   (j)   Child care, adult care.
   (k)   Museums.
   (l)   Home occupations.
   (m)   Group homes.
   (n)   (1)   Uses and structures incidental to the principal use including
parking lots, dormitories, dining halls and kitchens, supply stores operated by
the principal use, fraternities and sororities, activities and structures
maintained for educational or research purposes, and other similar uses
customarily incidental to the operation of the principal permitted use.
      (2)   Mobile structures may be utilized as accessory buildings in the "P-
I" District, however, such mobile structures shall not be arranged, designed,
intended or used as a dwelling unit, and shall not be utilized on a lot which
contains a structure to be used as a residence. Mobile structures shall be on a
permanent foundation unless otherwise permitted by the city.
   (o)   The following uses may be allowed by special use permit when
submitted, reviewed, and approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals and subject to
conditions as the Board may impose:
      (1)   Any public building erected or land used by a department of the
city, county, state, or federal government.
      (2)   Telephone exchange, electric substations and regulator stations, or
other public utilities.
      (3)   Commercial radio, television, navigation, or military control
stations, transmitters, or towers.
§ 17-1604 DEVELOPMENT MASTER PLAN REQUIRED.
   In the "P-I" Public and Institutional District, except for single-family
residential uses, no building, structure, sign, parking lot, or other
improvement shall be erected, modified, or placed in use, nor shall a building
permit be issued, unless such improvement is in accordance with a development
master plan for the entire site. Such development master plan shall include as
a minimum:
   (a)   General topographic conditions and method of drainage, including
notation of any areas of defined flood plain coverage.
   (b)   A site utilization concept showing:
      (1)   Locations and sizes of buildings, parking lots, and interior
drives.
      (2)   Locations, sizes, and dimensions of game courts, ball fields,
walkways, and signs.
      (3)   Routing and sizes of utility services including required easements
and locations of any transformer stations or other aboveground appurtenances.
      (4)   Locations and sizes of fences and walls.
      (5)   Type, intensity, and nature of landscaping, including boundary
screening where appropriate.
      (6)   General aesthetic quality of structures with respect to visual
harmony with surrounding development.
   (c)   Relationship of proposed development to surrounding areas of the
community, including sidewalk and street connections, and provision for
continuation of utility system routings, if required.
   (d)   The Development Master Plan shall include evidence of formal adoption
by the Governing Body of the institution as the official guide for long-range
development.
§ 17-1605 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   Lots and tracts in the "P-I" District shall be subject to the following
requirements:
   (a)   A lot on which there is erected a single-family dwelling shall contain
an area of not less than 5,000 square feet per family. The principal building
and accessory structures shall not cover more than 40% of the lot area.
   (b)   Tract sizes and building coverage for institutional uses shall be as
shown on the formally adopted Development Master Plan, provided:
      (1)   Buildings and accessory structures shall not cover more than 60% of
the area of the tract.
§ 17-1606 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed 45 feet in height, except as otherwise provided in
the additional height, area, and use regulations in this Title unless otherwise
permitted by the city.
§ 17-1607 YARD REGULATIONS.
   Except as required for arterial and collector streets, (see additional
height, area, and use regulations) yard requirements shall be as follows:
   (a)   Front yard.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, 25 feet.
      (2)   Institutional uses - as shown on the Development Master Plan with
15 feet minimum for buildings. Parking lots may be constructed within eight
feet of the front property line.
      (3)   On corner lots there shall be a front yard along each street.
   (b)   Side yard.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, six feet.
      (2)   Institutional uses - as shown on the Development Master Plan with
eight feet minimum for buildings and parking lots.
   (c)   Rear yard.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, 25 feet.
      (2)   Institutional uses - as shown on the Development Master Plan with
15 feet minimum for buildings. Parking lots may be constructed within eight
feet of the rear property line.
§ 17-1608 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 24 of this Title.
§ 17-1609 PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 25 of this Title.
§ 17-1610 LANDSCAPING AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   See
Article 26 of this Title.
§ 17-1611 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 27 of this Title.
ARTICLE 17: “C-S” HIGHWAY SERVICE DISTRICT
Section
   
17-1701   Intent and purpose of district
   
17-1702   District regulations
   
17-1703   Use regulations
   
17-1704   Intensity of use regulations
   
17-1705   Height regulations
   
17-1706   Yard regulations
   
17-1707   Sign regulations
   
17-1708   Parking and loading regulations
   
17-1709   Landscaping and stormwater management requirements
   
17-1710   Traffic regulations
§ 17-1701 INTENT AND PURPOSE OF DISTRICT.
   The "C-S" Highway Service District is intended for the purpose of providing
limited highway services grouped on a single tract. Floor area is restricted,
off-street parking is required, and landscaping is required in order to reduce
possible adverse effects on adjacent properties. Processing of materials and
all services provided must be completely enclosed in an appropriately designed
building.
§ 17-1702 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   In the "C-S" District, no building shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered, or enlarged which is arranged, intended,
or designed for other than one of the uses in §
17-1703 below.
§ 17-1703 USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   All uses in the "C-1" Commercial District.
   (b)   Animal hospitals or clinics.
   (c)   Bakery, including retail outlet.
   (d)   Car wash.
   (e)   Drive-in restaurant.
   (f)   Farm implement sales: outdoor display shall be permitted provided that
no machinery shall be displayed, parked, or stored in any required yard.
   (g)   Feed and seed stores, including garden and lawn supplies.
   (h)   Marine supplies, including sales and service of outboard motor boards.
   (i)   Truck sales, service, and repair, provided there is no outside repair
or repair storage.
   (j)   Fermentation processes and associated research, provided the gross
floor area on the lot does not exceed 10,000 square feet, and provided that
such use is not noxious or offensive by reason of vibration or noise beyond the
confines of the building, or emission of dust.
   (k)   The following uses may be allowed by special use permit when
submitted, reviewed, and approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals and under such
conditions as the Board may impose:
      (1)   Manufactured home sales, subject to the following regulations:
         (A)   Sales activities. In the "C-S" Highway Service District,
manufactured home sales activities shall be limited to the display, storage,
and sale of completed, undamaged manufactured home units, including all
activities necessary to prepare said units for display on the property and
transport off the property. Said activities shall include the placement or
removal of towing equipment, tires and axles, blocks, skids, jacks, skirting
and steps, and the connection and disconnection of utilities. Said activities
shall not include construction on or in the manufactured home.
         (B)   Density. No more than eight manufactured homes may exist on each
acre of property used for manufactured home sales at any given time.
         (C)   Spacing.  Manufactured homes shall be spaced at least 20 feet
from each other if placed side to side, or no less than 15 feet from each other
if placed end to end.
         (D)   Location on lot.
            (i)   Manufactured homes shall be placed behind all required front
yard areas in the "C-S" Highway Service District. This shall include the
additional yard requirements for lots located on arterial or collector streets,
according to the provisions of § 17-2904.
            (ii)   No manufactured home shall be placed within 20 feet of any
building on the lot or within 20 feet of any property line.
         (E)   Skirting. All open space below the manufactured home shall be
skirted, blocked, or otherwise screened using solid materials which will assure
positive closure.
         (F)   Tie-downs. Each manufactured home shall be provided with anchors
and tie-downs of adequate capacity to provide stability against high winds and
adverse weather conditions.
         (G)   Connection to utilities.
            (i)   If a manufactured home is connected to a water line, said
home shall also be connected to a building sewer subject to the separate
connection requirements of § 15-408 of this code, and applicable provisions of
the Uniform Plumbing Code.
            (ii)   All connections from a manufactured home to utilities
(water, gas, electricity, and sewer) shall be of permanent design, materials,
and construction, and shall be installed and operated according to applicable
provisions of the International Plumbing Code, National Electrical Code, and
all other codes of the City of Wamego.
         (H)   Storage. No outside storage of parts, materials, and equipment
shall be allowed, other than equipment or materials attached to a manufactured
home unit to meet the requirements of this provision.
         (I)   Use.  No manufactured home shall be used or occupied for any
purpose other than sales display.
      (2)   Child care centers.
      (3)   Collection and distribution of recyclable items.
      (4)   Recreational vehicle parks subject to the following conditions:
         (A)   Recreational vehicle park shall be constructed to accommodate at
least ten vehicles.
         (B)   Each recreational vehicle site shall be at least 900 square feet
in area and the average park density shall not exceed 30 recreational vehicles
per gross acre.
         (C)   Provisions are made to assure surface drainage so as to prevent
accumulation of stagnant water.
         (D)   All internal roads shall be at least ten feet in width for each
traffic lane and shall be paved with asphalt, concrete, asphaltic concrete or
other similar material. Dead end streets longer than 100 feet shall provide a
turnaround area at their terminus with a radius of no less than 60 feet.
         (E)   The grade of individual recreational vehicle stands shall not
exceed three inches per ten feet across the width of the stand.
         (F)   All utilities, water and sewer connections and facilities shall
be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
         (G)   No vehicle may remain at a recreational vehicle park for more
than 30 consecutive days a year.
      (5)   Race tracks, animal or vehicular.
      (6)   Wireless communications towers subject to the provisions of
Article 29 of this Title.
§ 17-1704 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Lots in this district shall be subject to the following minimum size
requirements:
      (1)   Buildings served by a public water system and public sewer system -
15,000 square feet.
      (2)   If a private water and/or sewer system is proposed, minimum lot
size shall be determined upon review by the Wamego Planning Commission. The
recommendation of the Pottawatomie County Sanitarian shall be considered in the
review.
      (3)   Average width shall be at least 150 feet unless as otherwise
required by the Pottawatomie County Sanitarian for lots served by a private
water and/or sewer system.
      (4)   Installation of lagoon systems shall only be permitted upon review
and recommendation of the Wamego Planning Commission. Said review shall
consider the recommendation of the Pottawatomie County Sanitarian.
§ 17-1705 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building or structure shall exceed 45 feet in height.
§ 17-1706 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Front yard.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25 feet
except as required for arterial and collector streets in
Article 29 of this Title.
      (2)   Where a lot has double frontage or is a corner lot, a front yard
shall be provided on both streets.
      (3)   Where a principal or accessory building existing as of the
effective date of this Title, encroaches upon the required 25 foot front yard,
and where the building is on a single lot of record, as defined in the
definitions section of this Title, established prior to the effective date of
said Title, and having an area of not more than 7,500 square feet, an addition
to said building shall be permitted, provided the addition does not encroach
further into the required front yard than the furthest projection of said
building, and providing that said addition represents not more than 50% of the
lot coverage of the existing building.
§ 17-1707 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 24 of this Title.
§ 17-1708 PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 25 of this Title.
§ 17-1709 LANDSCAPING AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   See
Article 26 of this Title.
§ 17-1710 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 27 of this Title.
ARTICLE 18: “C-1” RETAIL BUSINESS DISTRICT
Section
   
17-1801   Intent and purpose of district
   
17-1802   District regulations
   
17-1803   Use regulations
   
17-1804   Intensity of use regulations
   
17-1805   Height regulations
   
17-1806   Yard regulations
   
17-1807   Sign regulations
   
17-1808   Parking and loading regulations
   
17-1809   Landscaping and stormwater management requirements
   
17-1810   Traffic regulations
§ 17-1801 INTENT AND PURPOSE OF DISTRICT.
   The "C-1" Retail Business District is intended for the purpose of grouping
retail merchandising activities into a concentrated area serving the general
shopping needs of the trade area. Principal permitted uses include department
stores, apparel stores, general retail sales and services, and similar uses
appropriate for comparison shopping. The grouping is intended to strengthen the
business level of the central business activity.
§ 17-1802 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   In the "C-1" District, no building shall be used and no building or
structure altered, enlarged, or erected which is arranged, intended, or
designed for other than one of the uses listed in §
17-1803 below.
§ 17-1803 USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Adding machine and other small business machine repair, sales, and
services.
   (b)   Adult day care.
   (c)   Amusement places.
   (d)   Antique shops and stores, providing all merchandise is displayed and
sold inside a building.
   (e)   Apartments on floors other than the ground floor.
   (f)   Apparel and accessory stores.
   (g)   Appliance stores.
   (h)   Art and art supply stores.
   (i)   Artist studios.
   (j)   Auditoriums and similar places of public assembly.
   (k)   Automobile accessory and supply stores.
   (l)   Automobile mechanic shops.
   (m)   Automobile parking lots and garages.
   (n)   Automobile sales and service.
   (o)   Bakery and pastry shops (retail only).
   (p)   Banks and other savings and lending institutions.
   (q)   Barber shops, beauty shops and chiropody, massage, or similar personal
services.
   (r)   Bicycle shops.
   (s)   Books and stationery stores.
   (t)   Bowling centers and recreational buildings.
   (u)   Business and technical schools including schools for photography,
dancing, and music.
   (v)   Cigar and tobacco stores.
   (w)   Clothing stores.
   (x)   Clothing and costume rental shops.
   (y)   Commercial recreational uses.
   (z)   Custom dressmaking, millinery, tailoring, and similar trades.
   (aa)   Dance studios.
   (bb)   Day care.
   (cc)   Delicatessens and catering establishments.
   (dd)   Department stores.
   (ee)   Drug stores and prescription shops.
   (ff)   Dry goods and notions stores.
   (gg)   Electric appliance, computer and equipment sales and repair shops.
   (hh)   Electric substations, telephone exchange, and utility regulator
stations.
   (ii)   Fire stations, police stations, jails.
   (jj)   Fix-it shops (radio, television, and small household appliances).
   (kk)   Florist and gift shops.
   (ll)   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
   (mm)   Furniture and home furnishing stores.
   (nn)   Government buildings.
   (oo)   Grocery, fruit, and vegetable stores (retail only).
   (pp)   Gymnasiums and fitness salons.
   (qq)   Gun shops.
   (rr)   Hardware stores.
   (ss)   Hobby, stamp, and coin shops.
   (tt)   Hotels and motels.
   (uu)   Household appliance stores.
   (vv)   Interior decorator shops.
   (ww)   Jewelry and metal craft stores and shops.
   (xx)   Leather goods and luggage stores.
   (yy)   Libraries and museums (public).
   (zz)   Liquor stores.
   (aaa)   Lock and key shops.
   (bbb)   Mail order catalog stores.
   (ccc)   Medical, dental, and health clinics.
   (ddd)   Medical and orthopedic appliance stores.
   (eee)   Meeting halls and auditoriums (including union halls, Elks Lodge,
American Legion Home, VFW, Masons, etc.)
   (fff)   Messenger and telegraph service stations.
   (ggg)   Music instrument sales and repair shops.
   (hhh)   Music stores and studios.
   (iii)   Newspaper offices.
   (jjj)   Plumbing, heating, and air-conditioning shops, providing all
materials and equipment are located in a completely enclosed building.
   (kkk)   Printing shops and printing supply stores.
   (lll)   Newsstands.
   (mmm)   Office supply and office equipment sales and service stores.
   (nnn)   Offices and office buildings.
   (ooo)   Optician and optometrist shops.
   (ppp)   Paint and glass stores.
   (qqq)   Parking lots and garages.
   (rrr)   Parks and open spaces.
   (sss)   Pawn shops.
   (ttt)    Pet shops.
   (uuu)   Photographic equipment sales and supply stores.
   (vvv)   Photographic studios.
   (www)   Picture framing shops.
   (xxx)   Prescription shops.
   (yyy)   Printing and publishing houses (including newspapers).
   (zzz)   Professional offices.
   (aaaa)   Public buildings, including post office, city offices, county
offices, state offices.
   (bbbb)   Radio and television studios.
   (cccc)   Railway, taxi, and bus passenger stations.
   (dddd)   Restaurants and tea rooms.
   (eeee)   Service stations.
   (ffff)   Self-service laundries.
   (gggg)   Sewing machine shops and stores.
   (hhhh)   Shoe stores.
   (iiii)   Shoe repair and shoeshine shops.
   (jjjj)   Sporting and athletic goods stores.
   (kkkk)   Tailor shops.
   (llll)   Taverns.
   (mmmm)   Television and radio sales and service establishments.
   (nnnn)   Theaters.
   (oooo)   Thrift shops.
   (pppp)   Toy stores.
   (qqqq)   Travel bureaus.
   (rrrr)   Upholstery repair and refurbishing.
   (ssss)   Used car lots.
   (tttt)   Utility company offices.
   (uuuu)   Variety stores.
   (vvvv)   Wallpaper and paint stores.
   (wwww)   Watch and watch repair shops.
   (xxxx)   Accessory uses customarily incidental to the above uses.
   (yyyy)   The following uses may be allowed by special use permit when
submitted, reviewed, and approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals, and under
such conditions as the Board may impose:
      (1)   Retail lumber yards, providing all materials and equipment are
stored in a completely enclosed building or are screened by a minimum six foot
high solid fence.
§ 17-1804 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   No requirements except those to meet fire regulations.
§ 17-1805 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed 45 feet in height except as otherwise provided in
the additional height, area, and use regulations of this Title.
§ 17-1806 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Front yard. No front yard is required for any building in the "C-1"
Retail Business District.
   (b)   Side yard. No side yard is required for any building in the "C-1"
Retail Business District, except where a lot sides on any residential district,
in which case there shall be a 15 foot side yard.
   (c)   Rear yard. No rear yard is required for any building in the "C-1"
Retail Business District, except where a lot abuts on a residential district,
in which case there shall be a 15 foot rear yard.
§ 17-1807 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 24 of this Title.
§ 17-1808 PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   None required.
§ 17-1809 LANDSCAPING AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   None required.
§ 17-1810 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 25 of this Title.
ARTICLE 19: “C-2” GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
Section
   
17-1901   Intent and purpose of district
   
17-1902   District regulations
   
17-1903   Use regulations
   
17-1904   Intensity of use regulations
   
17-1905   Height regulations
   
17-1906   Yard regulations
   
17-1907   Sign regulations
   
17-1908   Parking and loading regulations
   
17-1909   Landscaping and stormwater management requirements
   
17-1910   Traffic regulations
§ 17-1901 INTENT AND PURPOSE OF DISTRICT.
   (a)   The "C-2" General Commercial District is intended for the purpose of
allowing basic retail, service, and office uses.
   (b)   This district is also intended to provide locations for commercial
activity that does not require a central location downtown but does require a
location easily accessible to area shoppers.
   (c)   Business uses needing large floor areas, particularly those of a
service nature and not compatible with central business district uses, are
included in this district.
§ 17-1902 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   In the "C-2" District, no building shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered, or enlarged which is arranged, intended,
or designed for other than one of the uses listed in §
17-1903 below.
§ 17-1903 USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Any use permitted in the "C-1" Retail Business District.
   (b)   The following uses may be allowed by special use permit when
submitted, reviewed, and approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals, and under
such conditions as the Board may impose:
      (1)   Motor vehicle repair service, provided that all work shall be
performed and all materials shall be stored within an enclosed building; and
provided further that all operable or inoperable motor vehicles determined by
the Building Official to be a safety hazard or visual blight shall be screened
from public view and access by a solid or semi-solid fence having a minimum
height of six feet and a visual density of no less than 90%.
      (2)   Motor vehicle body shop, provided that all work shall be performed
and all materials shall be stored within an enclosed building; and provided
further that all operable or inoperable motor vehicles determined by the
Building Official to be a safety hazard or visual blight shall be screened from
public view and access by a solid or semi-solid fence having a minimum height
of six feet and a visual density of no less than 90%.
      (3)   Storage and warehousing except for products of a highly explosive,
combustible or volatile nature.
      (4)   Wholesale establishments except those which handle products of a
highly explosive, combustible or volatile nature.
      (5)   Any public building erected on land used by any department of the
city, county, state or federal government.
      (6)   Public utility. Telephone exchange, electric substation, radio and
television towers, water, sewers or storm facilities, a natural, piped gas
operating under government franchise and contract.
      (7)   Collection and distribution of recyclable items.
§ 17-1904 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   A tract used for commercial purposes shall be not less than 2,500 square
feet in area with an average width of not less than 25 feet. A minimum of 1,500
square feet of lot area shall be required for each apartment built above ground
floor. Tracts not served by municipal water and sewer services shall be sized
as required by the Pottawatomie County Sanitation Code.
§ 17-1905 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building in a "C-2" District shall exceed 45 feet except as provided in
the additional height, area, and use regulations of this Title.
§ 17-1906 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Front and rear yards. No front or rear yard is required for any
building in the "C-2" General Commercial District except as required for
arterial or collector streets. (See the additional height, area, and use
regulations of this Title.)
   (b)   Side yard. Where the "C-2" District abuts a residential district there
shall be a side yard of not less than five feet.
§ 17-1907 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 24 of this Title.
§ 17-1908 PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 25 of this Title.
§ 17-1909 LANDSCAPING AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   See
Article 26 of this Title.
§ 17-1910 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 27 of this Title.
ARTICLE 20: “C-3” ADULT ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICT
Section
   
17-2001   Intent and purpose of district
   
17-2002   District regulations
   
17-2003   Use regulations
   
17-2004   Intensity of use regulations
   
17-2005   Height regulations
   
17-2006   Yard regulations
   
17-2007   Sign regulations
   
17-2008   Parking and loading regulations
   
17-2009   Landscaping and stormwater management requirements
   
17-2010   Traffic regulations
   
17-2011   Use and location restrictions
§ 17-2001 INTENT AND PURPOSE OF DISTRICT.
   It is the intent and purpose of the "C-3" Adult Entertainment District to
regulate adult entertainment establishments which by their nature are well
known to produce deleterious effects to adjacent development and serious
secondary negative impacts to juveniles, especially where such uses are
clustered. Special regulation of such uses is therefore necessary to insure
that these and other adverse secondary effects will not impact residential
neighborhoods, public and quasi-public institutions or facilities serving the
youth of the community.
§ 17-2002 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   In the "C-3" District no building shall be used, and no building shall be
erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or designed for other
than adult entertainment uses listed in §
17-2003 below.
§ 17-2003 USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Escort agencies.
   (b)   Adult book and/or video stores.
   (c)   Adult entertainment establishments, including bars, cabarets, massage
parlors, live theaters, motion picture theaters, and other sexually-oriented
entertainment businesses.
   (d)   Adult novelty stores.
§ 17-2004 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   All lots and tracts shall have not less than 7,000 square feet in area with
an average width of not less than 50 feet.
§ 17-2005 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building in a "C-3" District shall exceed 35 feet in height, except as
may be otherwise provided by the regulations.
§ 17-2006 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less
than 25 feet, except as may be required for arterial streets and collector
streets.
      (1)   Where a lot or group of lots have a double frontage, the required
front yard shall be provided on both streets.
      (2)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more streets
or roads, there shall be a front yard on each street side of a corner lot.
   (b)   Side yard. There shall be a side yard on each side of a building, and
no side yard shall be less than ten feet.
   (c)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard of not less than 25 feet.
§ 17-2007 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 24 of this Title.
§ 17-2008 PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 25 of this Title.
§ 17-2009 LANDSCAPING AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   See
Article 27 of this Title.
§ 17-2010 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 27 of this Title.
§ 17-2011 USE AND LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   No adult entertainment use, escort agencies, adult book or video
store, or adult novelty store shall be conducted in any manner:
      (1)   To allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment to be
visible from any point outside of the building or structure containing such
use.
      (2)   That permits the observation of any material depicting, describing
or relating to sexual activities from any point outside of the building or
structure containing such use.
   (b)   The provisions of divisions (a)(1) and (a)(2) above shall apply to any
display, decoration, sign, window or other opening.
   (c)   No adult use as set out in §
17-2003 above shall be allowed within 1,000 feet of another existing adult use.
   (d)   No adult use as set out in §
17-2003 above shall be located within 1,000 feet of any residential zoning
district or within 1,000 feet of any residence.
   (e)   No adult use as set out in §
17-2003 above shall be located within 1,000 feet of a pre-existing church or
place of worship, day-care facility, park, educational institution, library,
museum, community center, playground or swimming pool.
   (f)   For purposes of divisions (c), (d), and (e) above, measurements shall
be made in a straight line, without regard to intervening buildings, structures
or objects, from the nearest point on the property line of the applicant's
adult entertainment use to the nearest point on the property line of the
church, etc.
   (g)   No more than one such use as enumerated herein shall be conducted
within any building or structure containing an adult use.
   (h)   No permitted adult oriented business as defined herein shall be
operated between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
ARTICLE 21: “I-P” INDUSTRIAL PARK DISTRICT
Section
   
17-2101   Intent and purpose of district
   
17-2102   District regulations
   
17-2103   Use regulations
   
17-2104   Special overlay districts
   
17-2105   Intensity of use regulations
   
17-2106   Height regulations
   
17-2107   Yard regulations
   
17-2108   Sign regulations
   
17-2109   Parking and loading regulations
   
17-2110   Landscaping and stormwater management requirements
   
17-2111   Traffic regulations
§ 17-2101 INTENT AND PURPOSE OF DISTRICT.
   It is the intent of the "I-P" Industrial Park District to allow certain
business uses in a park-like atmosphere and to control the type of use,
setback, parking, loading, and unloading. It is also intended that this zone be
compatible with adjoining dwelling and commercial land uses.
§ 17-2102 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth in this Article, or set forth elsewhere in this
Title when referred to in this Article, are the regulations for "I-P"
Industrial Park District. No building shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered, or enlarged which is arranged, intended,
or designed for other than one of the uses listed in §§
17-2103 and
17-2104 below.
§ 17-2103 USE REGULATIONS.
   The following uses may be permitted providing the entire operation is
conducted within a building or an enclosed and landscaped yard. No portion of
the property shall be used in such a manner as to create a nuisance to adjacent
sites, such as, but not limited to: vibration, sound, electromagnetic
disturbance, radiation, air pollution, or dust emission of odorous, toxic, or
noxious matter. All uses must comply with all city, state, and federal
regulations regarding protection of the environment and the surrounding
properties. A commercial outlet for products associated with a permitted use
shall be allowed in the "I-P" District.
   (a)   Uses primarily engaged in research activities, including but not
limited to research laboratories and facilities, and compatible light
manufacturing relating to the following examples: bio-chemical; chemical;
development facilities for national welfare on land, sea or air; film and
photography; medical and dental; metallurgy; pharmaceutical; x-ray.
   (b)   Manufacture, research, assembly, testing, and repair of components,
devices, equipment and systems, and parts and components, such as, but not
limited to, the following examples: coils, tubes, and semi-conductors;
communication, navigation control, transmission and reception equipment, and
control equipment and systems; data processing equipment and systems; glass
edging, beveling, and silvering; graphics and art equipment; metering
instruments; optical devices, equipment, and systems; phonographs, audio units,
radio equipment, and television equipment; photographic equipment; radar,
infra-red, and ultraviolet equipment and systems; scientific and mechanical
instruments; testing equipment.
   (c)   Other manufacturing to include, but not limited to, the following
examples:
      (1)   Manufacture, fabrication, and/or assembly of the following or
similar products: aircraft and related components, automotive parts, boats,
clocks and watches, coffins, ceramic products, concrete products, electrical
appliances, farm equipment, heating and ventilating equipment, linoleum,
machinery and machine tools, musical instruments, neon signs, novelties,
optical goods, refrigeration, screw machine products, sheet metal products,
shoes, silk screens, sporting goods, springs, stencils, toys.
      (2)   The manufacture of products or products made from the following or
similar materials: aluminum, bags, batteries, boxes, paper, brass, cans,
copper, glass, grinding wheels, iron, linoleum, matches, mattresses, steel,
tin, tools, wool, yarn.
      (3)   The manufacturing, compounding, processing, or treatment of the
following or similar items: non-corrosive acids, candles, cigars and
cigarettes, detergents, disinfectants, dye, food products, lubricating oil,
pharmaceutical products, plastics, toiletries, vitamin products, waxes and
polishes, wines.
      (4)   Woodworking shops (provided that, if a planer, router, sticker, or
molder is maintained, all doors and windows in the outside walls of the room in
which said machinery is located shall be kept closed while said machine is in
use), for manufacture of boxes, furniture, wood products, or similar items.
   (d)   Distribution and warehousing plants.
   (e)   Administrative, professional, and business offices associated with and
accessory to a permitted use.
   (f)   Regional or home offices of industries which are limited to a single
use and accessory to any of the above industrial developments.
   (g)   Blue printing, photo stating, photo engraving, printing, publishing,
and bookbinding.
   (h)   Agriculture, as a continuation of the existing land use, and all
necessary structures and appurtenances shall be permitted.
   (i)   General contractor and construction industries relating to the
building industry, such as general contractors, electrical contractors,
plumbing contractors, etc.
   (j)   Refuse hauling businesses, providing all cleaning operations and any
storage of salvageable items are contained within a completely enclosed
building.
   (k)   Training schools and colleges, e.g., schools for photography, dancing
and music, excluding residential housing facilities.
   (l)   Utility companies.
   (m)   Boarding and grooming kennels.
   (n)   Farm equipment sales and service.
   (o)   Commercial and industrial uses permitted by special overlay district
as noted in §
17-2104 below.
   (p)   The following uses may be allowed by special use permit, when
submitted, reviewed and approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals, and under such
conditions as the Board may impose:
      (1)   Business offices not associated with a permitted use by right.
§ 17-2104 SPECIAL OVERLAY DISTRICTS.
   (a)   In addition to the above uses the following overlay districts are
established to permit a more varied range of uses for specifically approved
locations within the industrial park:
      (1)   "IP (C-S)" Overlay District. This overlay district shall permit all
uses in the "C-S" Highway Service District, except:
         (A)   Adult day care.
         (B)   Amusement places.
         (C)   Apartments.
         (D)   Automobile mechanic shops.
         (E)   Automobile parking lots and garages.
         (F)   Automobile sales and service.
         (G)   Car washes.
         (H)   Child care centers.
         (I)   Commercial recreational uses.
         (J)   Day care.
         (K)   Drive-in restaurants.
         (L)   Gun shops.
         (M)   Hotels and motels.
         (N)   Liquor stores.
         (O)   Motor vehicle body shops.
         (P)   Motor vehicle repair and service.
         (Q)   Parks and open spaces.
         (R)   Pawnshops.
         (S)   Race tracts, animal or vehicular.
         (T)   Service stations.
         (U)   Storage and warehousing of products of a highly explosive,
combustible or volatile nature.
         (V)   Taverns.
         (W)   Thrift shops.
         (X)   Used car lots.
         (Y)   Wholesale establishments that handle products of a highly
explosive, combustible or volatile nature.
      (2)   "IP (I-1)" Overlay District. This overlay district shall permit all
uses in the "I-1" Light Industrial District, except:
         (A)   Animal hospitals or clinics.
         (B)   Auto sales and repair.
         (C)   Billboards.
         (D)   Building material sales.
         (E)   Car wash establishments.
         (F)   Dry cleaning and/or laundry plants.
         (G)   Machinery sales and storage lots.
         (H)   Mini warehouses.
         (I)   Motor vehicle sales and storage.
         (J)   Livestock auction sales and grain elevators. (These uses require
a special use permit in the "I-1" District, but are not permissible in the "I-
P (I-1)" Overlay District).
      (3)   "IP (I-2)" Overlay District. This overlay district shall permit all
uses in the "I-2" Heavy Industrial District, except:
         (A)   Auto sales and repair.
         (B)   Building materials, storage and sales.
         (C)   Dry cleaning and/or laundry plants.
         (D)   Grain elevators.
         (E)   Mini warehouses.
         (F)   Motor vehicle sales and storage.
         (G)   Radiator repair shops.
         (H)   Restaurants.
         (I)   Service stations.
         (J)   All uses of land allowed in the "I-2" district by "special use
permit".
§ 17-2105 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   A tract for an Industrial Park District shall be no less than ten
acres in area with no site being less than one half acre in size.
   (b)   Maximum building coverage of 50% of a site is allowed. Parking
structures shall not be calculated as building area; however, said structures
shall be used only for the parking of company vehicles, employees' vehicles, or
vehicles belonging to persons visiting the subject firm.
§ 17-2106 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (a)   When a building or structure is within 150 feet of a residential
district zone, said building or structure shall not exceed 45 feet in height.
   (b)   When a building or structure is more than 150 feet from a residential
district zone, said building or structure shall not exceed 75 feet in height.
§ 17-2107 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Front yard. A front yard of 50 feet shall be required for uses
permitted in the "I-P" District, except that unsupported roofs or sun screens
may project six feet into the front yard area.
   (b)   Side yard setback. A side yard of 40 feet shall be required for uses
permitted in this district, except that if a single building is constructed on
two or more lots, or if a site on which a single building was originally
constructed is further subdivided into two or more lots in accordance with the
provisions of §
17-2104, no side yard setback is required from interior lot lines; provided
further, that, in any event, there shall be at least 20 feet of open space
between all buildings on the property which area shall be a side yard setback
area. In the case of a corner lot, the street side setback shall be 50 feet,
except that unsupported roofs and sunscreen may project six feet into the
setback area. Interior lot lines for corner lots shall be considered side lot
lines.
   (c)   Rear yard setback. Rear yard setback shall be 20 feet.
§ 17-2108 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 24 of this Title.
§ 17-2109 PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 25 of this Title.
§ 17-2110 LANDSCAPING AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   See
Article 26 of this Title.
§ 17-2111 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 27 of this Title.
ARTICLE 22: “I-1" LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
Section
   
17-2201   Intent and purpose of district
   
17-2202   District regulations
   
17-2203   Use regulations
   
17-2204   Intensity of use regulations
   
17-2205   Height regulations
   
17-2206   Yard regulations
   
17-2207   Sign regulations
   
17-2208   Parking and loading regulations
   
17-2209   Landscaping and stormwater management requirements
   
17-2210   Traffic regulations
§ 17-2201 INTENT AND PURPOSE OF DISTRICT.
   The "I-1" Light Industrial District is intended for the purpose of allowing
certain industrial uses which do not:
   (a)   Require intensive land coverage.
   (b)   Generate large volumes of vehicular traffic.
   (c)   Create obnoxious sounds, glare, dust, or odor.
   Height and land coverage are controlled to ensure compatibility with
adjoining uses.
§ 17-2202 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   In the "I-1" District, no building or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered, or enlarged which is arranged, intended,
or designed for other than one of the uses listed in §
17-2203 below.
§ 17-2203 USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Animal hospitals or clinics.
   (b)   Auto sales and repair.
   (c)   Billboards subject to requirements outlined in
Article 24 of this Title.
   (d)   Bottling works.
   (e)   Building material sales (except for ready-mix concrete and similar
uses which emit dust, odor, or smoke).
   (f)   Carpenter, cabinet, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and sheet
metal shops.
   (g)   Car wash establishments.
   (h)   Cheese factory.
   (i)   Contractor's office and equipment storage yard, providing the storage
yard is completely enclosed with a six foot solid fence or wall.
   (j)   Dog kennels.
   (k)   Dry cleaning and/or laundry plants.
   (l)   Farm implement sales and services.
   (m)   Frozen food lockers.
   (n)   Greenhouses and nurseries, retail and wholesale.
   (o)   Light manufacturing operations, providing that such use is not noxious
or offensive by reason of vibration or noise beyond the confines of the
building or emission of dust, fumes, gas, odor, or smoke.
   (p)   Machinery sales and storage lots.
   (q)   Mini warehouses
   (r)   Monument sales.
   (s)   Motor vehicle and farm implement sales and storage.
   (t)   Public utility and public service uses as follows:
      (1)   Municipal power plant.
      (2)   Substations.
      (3)   Railroads.
      (4)   Telephone exchanges, microwave towers, radio towers, television
towers, telephone transmission buildings, electric power plants.
      (5)   Public utility storage yards when the entire storage area is
enclosed by at least a six foot wall or fence.
   (u)   Sign printing and manufacturing.
   (v)   Truck and rail terminals.
   (w)   Upholstering shops.
   (x)   Vehicle body repair, provided all repair operations are conducted in a
closed building and that all outside storage shall be enclosed by a six foot
solid fence.
   (y)   Warehouses.
   (z)   Wholesale merchandise sales and storage.
   (aa)   The following uses of land may be allowed in this district by special
use permit when submitted, reviewed and approved by the Board of Zoning
Appeals:
      (1)   Livestock auction sales.
      (2)   Grain elevators, feed and seed sales.
      (3)   Wireless communications towers subject to the provisions of
Article 29 of this Title.
§ 17-2204 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Lots in this district which are served by a public water and sewer
system shall be subject to the following minimum size requirements:
      (1)   Minimum lot size shall be 10,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width shall be 100 feet.
   (b)   Lots in this district not served by a public water and sewer system
shall be subject to the following minimum size requirements:
      (1)   Minimum lot size shall be determined upon review by the Wamego
Planning Commission. The recommendation of the Pottawatomie County Sanitarian
shall be considered in the review.
      (2)   Minimum lot width shall be as required by the Pottawatomie County
Sanitarian.
      (3)   Installation of lagoon systems shall only be permitted upon review
and recommendation of the Wamego Planning Commission. Said review shall
consider the recommendation of the Pottawatomie County Sanitarian.
   (c)   A building, structure, or use allowed in this district may occupy all
that portion of the lot except for that area required for yard setbacks, off-
street parking and off-street loading and unloading and their access roads, for
meeting the Pottawatomie County Sanitary Regulations, and as required for
arterial and/or collector streets in
Article 29 of this Title.
   (d)   In the case where the required off-street parking and/or loading and
unloading will be provided within the building or structure, then the structure
may cover the entire lot except as required for meeting the Pottawatomie County
Sanitary Regulations, and as required for arterial and/or collector streets in
Article 29 of this Title.
§ 17-2205 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (a)   When a building or structure is within 150 feet of a residential
district zone, said building or structure shall not exceed 45 feet in height.
   (b)   When a building or structure is more than 150 feet from a residential
district zone, said building or structure shall not exceed 75 feet in height.
§ 17-2206 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Front yard.
      (1)   No front yard setback is required for existing uses. New structures
shall provide a front yard having a depth of not less than 25 feet measured
from the front property line except as required for arterial and collector
streets in
Article 29 of this Title.
      (2)   Where a lot or lots have double frontage, the required front yard
shall be provided on both streets.
      (3)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more streets,
there shall be a front yard on each street side of the corner lot except the
buildable width of such lot shall not be reduced to less than 35 feet except
where necessary to provide a yard on the side street not less than five feet in
width.
      (4)   No accessory building shall project beyond the front yard line on
either street.
   (b)   Side yard. There shall be a side yard on each side of each building
and said side yard shall not be less than the average height of adjacent
buildings. The required side yards for the lot or tract shall be ten feet.
   (c)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
15 feet.
§ 17-2207 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 24 of this Title.
§ 17-2208 PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 25 of this Title.
§ 17-2209 LANDSCAPING AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   See
Article 26 of this Title.
§ 17-2210 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 27 of this Title.
ARTICLE 23: “I-2" HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
Section
   
17-2301   Purpose and intent of district
   
17-2302   District regulations
   
17-2303   Use regulations
   
17-2304   Intensity of use regulations
   
17-2305   Height regulations
   
17-2306   Yard regulations
   
17-2307   Sign regulations
   
17-2308   Parking and loading regulations
   
17-2309   Landscaping and stormwater management requirements
   
17-2310   Traffic regulations
§ 17-2301 PURPOSE AND INTENT OF DISTRICT.
   The "I-2" Heavy Industrial District is intended for the purpose of allowing
basic or primary industries which are generally not compatible with residential
and/or commercial activity. Certain extremely obnoxious or hazardous uses will
require special permission to locate in this district.
§ 17-2302 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   In the "I-2" District, no building or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered, or enlarged which is arranged, intended,
or designed for other than one of the uses listed in §
17-2303 below.
§ 17-2303 USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Animal hospitals or clinics.
   (b)   Auto sales and repair.
   (c)   Bottling works.
   (d)   Blacksmith shops.
   (e)   Building materials, storage and sales.
   (f)   Carpenter, cabinet, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and sheet
metal shops.
   (g)   Contractor's office and equipment storage yard.
   (h)   Dog kennels.
   (i)   Dry cleaning and/or laundry plants.
   (j)   Feed and seed stores.
   (k)   Frozen food lockers.
   (l)   Grain elevators.
   (m)   Greenhouses and nurseries, retail and wholesale.
   (n)   Lumber yards.
   (o)   Machinery sales and storage lots.
   (p)   Manufactured home fabrication, sales and storage.
   (q)   Manufacturing or fabrication establishments which are not noxious or
offensive by reason of vibration, noise, dust, fumes, gas, odor, or smoke.
   (r)   Mini warehouses.
   (s)   Motor vehicle and farm implement sales and storage.
   (t)   Poultry storage or slaughtering.
   (u)   Public utility and public service uses.
   (v)   Radiator repair shops.
   (w)   Restaurants.
   (x)   Service stations.
   (y)   Storage yards providing the storage yard is completely enclosed with a
six foot fence or wall.
   (z)   Truck and rail terminals.
   (aa)   Upholstering shops.
   (bb)   Vehicle body repair, provided all repair operations are conducted in
a closed building, and that all outside storage shall be enclosed by a six foot
solid fence.
   (cc)   Warehouses or storage houses.
   (dd)   Wholesale houses.
   (ee)   The following uses of land may be allowed in this district by special
use permit when submitted, reviewed, and approved by the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
      (1)   Automobile wrecking yards, junk yards, and scrap processing yards,
when said yard is completely enclosed with six foot solid fence and no junk or
scrap is stored outside the fence or wall and subject to other restrictions
imposed by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (2)   Petroleum refining.
      (3)   Oil and gas exploration, extraction and/or production.
      (4)   Storage and warehousing of products of a highly explosive,
combustible or volatile nature.
      (5)   Mining and/or extraction of minerals.
      (6)   Wholesale and retail establishments which handle products of a
highly explosive, combustible or volatile nature.
      (7)   Storage, warehousing and sale of bulk fertilizers.
      (8)   Wireless communications towers subject to the provisions of
Article 29 of this Title.
      (9)   Stockyard and slaughter houses.
      (10)   Ready mix concrete and asphalt mix plants.
      (11)   Storage of bulk oil, gas, and explosives.
      (12)   Other uses which may be noxious or offensive by reason of the
emission of odor, dust, smoke, gas, noise, or vibration.
§ 17-2304 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Lots in this district served by a public water and sewer system shall
be subject to the following minimum size requirements:
      (1)   Minimum lot area shall be 10,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width shall be 100 feet.
   (b)   Lots not served by a public water and sewer system shall be subject to
the following minimum requirements:
      (1)   Minimum lot size shall be determined upon review by the Wamego
Planning Commission. The recommendation of the Pottawatomie County Sanitarian
shall be considered in the review.
      (2)   Minimum lot width shall be as required by the Pottawatomie County
Sanitarian.
      (3)   Installation of lagoon systems shall only be permitted upon review
and recommendation of the Wamego Planning Commission. Said review shall
consider the recommendation of the Pottawatomie County Sanitarian.
   (c)   A building, structure, or use allowed in this district may occupy all
that portion of the lot except for that area required for yard setbacks, off-
street parking and off-street loading and unloading and their access roads;
that area required for meeting the Pottawatomie County Sanitary Regulations;
and as required for arterial and/or collector streets in
Article 29 of this Title.
   (d)   In the case where the required off-street parking and/or loading and
unloading will be provided within the building or structure, then the structure
may cover the entire lot except as required for meeting the Pottawatomie County
Sanitary Regulations, and as required for yard setbacks and arterial and/or
collector streets in
Article 29 of this Title.
§ 17-2305 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (a)   When a building or structure is within 150 feet of a residential
district zone, said building or structure shall not exceed 45 feet in height.
   (b)   When a building or structure is more than 150 feet from a residential
district zone, said building or structure shall not exceed 150 feet in height
if not in conflict with airport approach zones.
§ 17-2306 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Front yard.
      (1)   No front yard setback is required for existing uses. New structures
shall provide a front yard having a depth of not less than 30 feet measured
from the front property line except as required for arterial and collector
streets in
Article 29 of this Title.
      (2)   Where a lot or lots have double frontage, the required front yard
shall be provided on both streets.
      (3)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more streets,
there shall be a front yard on each street side of the corner lot except the
buildable width of such lot shall not be reduced to less than 35 feet except
where necessary to provide a yard on the side street not less than five feet in
width.
   (b)   Side yard. There shall be a side yard on each side of a building and
said side yard shall not be less than the average height of adjacent buildings.
For the lot or tract, side yard requirements shall be 15 feet.
   (c)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard for buildings in this district,
which rear yard shall have a depth of not less than 25 feet or 20% of the depth
of the lot, whichever is the smaller.
§ 17-2307 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 24 of this Title.
§ 17-2308 PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 25 of this Title.
§ 17-2309 LANDSCAPING AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   See
Article 26 of this Title.
§ 17-2310 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   See
Article 27 of this Title.
ARTICLE 24: SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
   
17-2401   General requirements
   
17-2402   Specific requirements
   
17-2403   Permits and fees required   
   
17-2404   Nonconforming signs
   
17-2405   Removal of signs from vacant buildings
§ 17-2401 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, move, alter, change,
repair, place, suspend, or to cause or permit to be erected, moved, altered,
changed, repaired, placed, suspended, or attached any sign in violation of this
Zoning Ordinance and this Article.
   (b)   Except as noted herein, it shall be unlawful for any person or persons
to fasten, paste, place, post, paint, or attach in any way any sign, handbill,
poster, advertisement, or notice of any kind or sort, whether political or
otherwise, or to cause the same to be done, in or upon any curbstone, lamp
post, telephone, telegraph, or electric light pole, tree, or bridge. It shall
be unlawful to paste, place, paint, or attach any sign on any building, street,
or property of the city; provided, however, that any property owner or the
occupant of any property abutting on any public street in the city or county
may paint or stamp the address of such property upon the curbing directly in
front of the building or to have same painted thereon, subject to approval by
the Building Official. Nothing in this provision shall prohibit the Wamego
Governing Body from approving such signage when it has determined that the
signage is in best interest of the community at large, and satisfies standards
for approval contained in a policy that has been adopted by the Governing Body.
   (c)   Billboards are defined as signs advertising products or services other
than those available on the premises and which have an area of 300 square feet
or more per face. Billboards shall not be permitted under these sign
regulations in any city zoning district.
§ 17-2402 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.
   Provisions relating to all types of signs erected in the Wamego Zoning
Jurisdiction are as follows:
   (a)   Advertising signs call attention to an activity or product located on
a different tract from the sign (See Article 3, Rules and Definitions).
Advertising signs are permitted in the "C-1", "C-2", "I-1", and "I-2" Districts
by right, and in the "PUD" District upon review and approval of the Planning
Commission. In the "A-L" District, an advertising sign shall be allowed by
special use permit only when submitted, reviewed, and approved by the Board of
Zoning Appeals and under such conditions as the Board may impose:
      (1)   The advertising sign shall not exceed 50 square feet in area for a
single- or double-faced sign; the bottom edge of the sign shall be at least
three feet above the average ground level; and the top edge not higher than ten
feet above the average ground level.
      (2)   The advertising sign shall not be located closer than 250 feet from
two or more intersecting roads. Not more than one such sign shall be permitted
on one road side within any one mile.
      (3)   An applicant for a special use permit to erect an advertising sign
shall submit to the Board a plot plan showing the location, size, and
construction details of the proposed sign installation; a letter from the
property owner indicating intent to lease said property together with a copy of
terms of said lease. Such permit shall be issued for a period of five years,
and its renewal shall be subject to a review of the site and changed conditions
within the surrounding area.
   (b)   Business signs call attention to an activity or product located on the
tract upon which the sign is located (See Article 3 of this Title, Rules and
Definitions). Business signs are permitted in the "C-S", "C-1", "C-2", "I-P",
"I-1", and "I-2" Districts by right, and in the "PUD" and "C-3" Districts upon
review and approval of the Planning Commission.
   (c)   The gross surface area on one side of an advertising or business sign
shall not exceed the following limitations:
 
District            Formula                        Maximum Area Possible
                    The square footage shall be no
                    greater than three times the
                    lineal feet of frontage of the
                    lot occupied by the building.
                    Each side of the lot which
                    abuts upon a street shall be
“C-S”, “C-1", considered a separate          300 sq. ft.
                    frontage, and the gross
                    surface area of all signs
                    located on each side of a
                    building shall not exceed
                    three times the lineal feet of
                    the separate frontage
“I-1", “I-2"    (Same as above)                Not applicable
                                                   200 sq. ft. plus 20 sq. ft.
“PUD”, “I-P”Not applicable                 for each additional business
                                                   conducted on the site
 
In all districts, individual letters with no background shall be measured by
the minimum rectangular area necessary to encompass such letter or by a
combination of rectangles as are necessary to encompass letters of irregular
dimensions.
   (d)   Advertising or business signs in the "C-3" district shall conform to
the following:
      (1)   Advertising signs shall have no more than two display surfaces.
Each such display surface shall:
         (A)   Not contain any flashing lights.
         (B)   Be a flat plane, rectangular shape.
         (C)   Not exceed 49 square feet in sign area if a wall sign, nor 25
square feet if other than a wall sign.
         (D)   Not exceed seven feet in height or seven feet in length.
      (2)   Advertising signs shall contain no photographs, silhouettes,
drawings or sexual representations of any kind.
      (3)   Each letter forming a word on an advertising sign shall be of a
solid color, and each such letter shall be the same print-type, size and color.
The background behind such lettering on the display surface of an advertising
sign shall be of a uniform and solid color.
   (e)   Ground signs shall have a maximum height of eight feet in the "I-P"
District.
   (f)   Building signs are permitted in the "A-L", "C-S", "C-1", "C-2", "I-P",
"I-1", and "I-2" Districts by right (except as provided in divisions (o) and
(p) below), and in the "PUD" District upon review and approval of the Planning
Commission.
      (1)   The building sign shall be affixed flat against the face of the
building as opposed to perpendicular and/or double faced.
      (2)   Building signs painted on the building surface are not allowed in
the "I-P" District.
      (3)   Building signs in the “C-3" District shall conform to the following
special requirements:
         (A)   Building signs shall have only one display surface. Such display
surface shall:
            (i)   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape.
            (ii)   Not exceed nine square feet in sign area.
            (iii)   Not exceed three feet in height or three feet in length.
            (iv)   Be affixed or attached to any wall or door of the
establishment.
            (v)   The provisions of divisions (d)(2) and (d)(3) above shall
also apply to building signs in the "C-3" District.
   (g)   Marquee and canopy signs are permitted in the "C-1", "C-2" and "C-S"
Districts only. The sign must be mounted either on the front edge of the
marquee or canopy, or suspended beneath (see division (j) below). Signs
suspended beneath a marquee or canopy shall not exceed eight square feet in
surface area and shall contain an announcement of the business name only. The
lowest elevation shall always be no less than eight feet above the sidewalk
surface. The canopy or marquee shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with the Building Code of the city.
   (h)   A maximum of two business signs (only one on a facade) shall be
allowed for a business or profession conducted on the premises in the "I-P",
"I-1", "I-2", and "PUD" Districts. In the "C-S" District, a maximum of four
business signs shall be allowed, except that an additional number of signs may
be allowed in the "C-S" District by special use permit when submitted,
reviewed, and approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals and under such conditions
as the Board may impose.
   (i)   All signs in the "C-S", "I-1", and "I-2" Districts shall be affixed to
or be a part of the building if within 50 feet of a residential district.
   (j)   Except as provided in division (f) above, no sign shall be permitted
to overhang a road, street, or alley right-of-way, and no sign shall be located
in a manner as to constitute a traffic hazard.
   (k)   Any sign, other than one affixed flat against the face of a building,
which is located within three feet of a driveway or parking area or within 50
feet of the intersection of the centerlines of two or more streets, measured
along the adjacent curb lines, shall have its lowest elevation at least ten
feet above curb level to avoid creation of line-of-sight or other traffic-
related obstructions.
   (l)   All lighted signs in direct vision of a traffic signal shall not be in
red, green or amber illumination.
   (m)   Non-flashing, illuminated signs shall be permitted providing said sign
shall not beam upon any street or any residential district, except as provided
in divisions (t) and (u) below. Clocks and/or thermometers installed for public
convenience and information are exempt from this requirement.
   (n)   Where a sign is illuminated by light directed upon it, the direct ray
of light shall not beam upon any existing residential district, except as
provided in divisions (t) and (u) below, or into any street.
   (o)   Flashing, moving, or animated signs are not permitted in the "I-P" and
"C-3" Districts. In the "C-S" District, they are not permitted within 500 feet
of a residential district or where the rays of light. from the sign beam upon
any part of any residential district. In the "C-S" District, no high intensity
strobe or flashing lights shall be permitted to be used with any sign or
separately.
   (p)   In the "C-1", "C-2", "I-1", and "I-2" Districts, flashing, moving, or
animated signs shall be permitted only upon approval of the City Building
Inspector providing it is first determined that the location and colors will in
no way create a traffic hazard or confusion with traffic lights and with lights
on emergency vehicles and that direct rays of the sign will not be directed
into any residential district.
   (q)   Electronic message board signs shall be considered as illuminated
business signs and shall be subject to regulation as are other types of
illuminated signage.
   (r)   Sandwich board signs are permitted in the "C-S", "I-1", and "I-2"
Districts only, providing said sign is permanently affixed to the surface on
which it rests.
   (s)   In the "C-1" zone all signage and sign components shall be a permanent
part of the advertising display. Magnetic lettering or other temporary
removable physical components are prohibited.
   (t)   Non-illuminated nameplates in the "A-L", "R-L", "R-M", "R-H", "R-1",
“R-2", "R-3", and "PUD" Districts shall conform to the following restrictions:
      (1)   The nameplate shall not exceed three square feet in area.
      (2)   The nameplate shall show only the name and/or address of the
occupant.
   (u)   Signage for strip malls and other multiple tenant buildings shall meet
the following requirements:
      (1)   One illuminated business sign denoting the location name with a
listing of business tenants within shall be permitted per street frontage. Such
signage may be free-standing or may be affixed to the structure. Such permitted
signage shall be subject to all other regulations for business signage.
      (2)   Each business in a multi-tenant building may utilize individual
business signage provided such advertising display is permanently affixed flat
against the face of the structure and complies with all other applicable
signage regulations.
   (v)   Non-illuminated single- or double-faced "For Sale" and "For Rent"
signs in the "R-L", "R-M", "R-1", "R-2", "R-3", and "PUD" Districts are subject
to the following regulations.
      (1)   Only one sign shall be permitted per lot.
      (2)   No sign shall exceed four square feet in area.
      (3)   Signs shall be located no closer than five feet from any property
line and shall not obstruct the view of traffic approaching a street
intersection.
      (4)   When said sign is affixed to a building, it shall not project
higher than ten feet above the ground level.
      (5)   Ground signs shall not project higher than four feet above ground
grade.
   (w)   In the "A-L" District, only one non-illuminated "For Sale", "For
Rent", or single- or double-faced business sign shall be permitted per
residential building lot. Accessory business signs shall not exceed 50 square
feet.
   (x)   Bulletin boards and signs for churches and other public institutions
in the "R-L", "R-M", "R-H", "R-1", "R-2", "R-3", and "PUD" Districts are
subject to the following regulations:
      (1)   One sign or bulletin board shall be permitted on each street side
if located on the same site as the principal building.
      (2)   If the sign or bulletin board is illuminated, the lights shall be
directed away from adjoining residential uses.
      (3)   No sign or bulletin board shall exceed 24 square feet in area.
      (4)   No sign shall be located closer than eight feet from any side or
rear property line.
      (5)   A sign or bulletin board located in the front yard shall be no
closer to the street line than one-half the required front yard.
      (6)   A sign or bulletin board, affixed to a building, shall not project
higher than ten feet above the ground level.
      (7)   Ground signs shall be permanently anchored to the ground and shall
not exceed a height of six feet above normal grade.
      (8)   Buildings constructed on the property line prior to the adoption of
this Title shall be allowed one identification sign providing said sign is a
flat wall sign and permanently attached to the building.
   (y)   Signage for manufactured home parks and multi-family developments must
meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Only one business sign per street frontage shall be permitted.
      (2)   No business sign shall exceed 40 square feet in area for each face.
      (3)   Any number of informational and directional signs shall be
permitted and shall contain no advertising or solicitation.
      (4)   All signs may be illuminated, either directly, indirectly, or
internally, providing direct beams of light do not shine off the site or into
any building on the site.
      (5)   Ground signs shall not exceed ten feet in height.
   (z)   Temporary signs, whether illuminated or non-illuminated, are permitted
in the “A-L", “C-S", "C-1", "C-2", "I-P", “I-1", and "I-2" Districts by right,
and as provided in division (r) above, and in the “PUD" District if approved by
the City Building Official.
      (1)   Only one such sign shall be permitted per location.
      (2)   Temporary signs shall not exceed 45 square feet of surface area.
      (3)   No temporary sign, except on approval by the Governing Body, shall
extend over or into any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
It shall not obstruct any wall opening.
      (4)   Every temporary sign shall be secured to prevent movement or
overturning, in a manner approved by the Building Official.
      (5)   All electrical cords to such signs shall be located so as not to
expose them to physical damage. No such electrical cord shall be laid upon any
sidewalk, driveway, or parking lot. All such wiring shall be subject to the
electrical code of the city.
      (6)   Temporary signs shall not exceed six feet in height and shall be so
located so as to avoid creation of line-of-sight or other traffic-related
obstructions.
   (aa)   Private informational and directional signs shall contain no
advertising or solicitation and are subject to the following provisions (except
as provided in division (v) above).
      (1)   Where a sign is illuminated by light directed upon it, the direct
rays of light shall not beam upon any part of any residential district or into
any street.
      (2)   Lighted signs in direct vision of traffic shall not be in red,
green, or amber illumination.
      (3)   Flashing signs shall not be allowed.
      (4)   Only one sign shall be permitted per location.
      (5)   Signs shall not exceed 32 square feet of surface area for each
face.
      (6)   No private informational or directional sign, except on approval by
the Governing Body, shall extend over or into any street, alley, or sidewalk or
other public thoroughfare. It shall not obstruct any wall opening.
      (7)   Any sign, other than one affixed flat against the face of the
building and located within three feet of a driveway or parking area or within
50 feet of the intersection of two or more streets, measured along the adjacent
curb line, shall have the lowest elevation at least ten feet above the curb
level to avoid line-of-sight or other traffic-related obstructions.
   (bb)   Signage placed upon a public sidewalk is permissible in the C-1:
Retail Business District only, and is subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   A sign permit has been obtained from the city in accordance with
the Wamego Zoning Ordinance Sign Regulations, and the applicant has submitted
proof of liability insurance covering the sign on city sidewalk, to be
maintained for the period that the sign remains on the city sidewalk.
      (2)   Only one sidewalk sign per street frontage shall be permitted.
      (3)   The sign may be placed on the sidewalk during the hours of
operation of the adjoining establishment, and within four feet of the property
line (usually the front of the building).
      (4)   The text of the sign may only promote goods, services or activities
offered within the adjoining establishment, except that signage promoting such
offerings at a location other than the adjoining establishment shall be
permissible upon review and approval of the Wamego Body.
      (5)   The height of the sign is limited to five feet and the minimum
height is three feet so as to avoid the sign becoming a trip hazard. The
maximum area of each sign face shall not exceed nine square feet.
      (6)   Signage placed near street intersections is subject to the "vision
triangle" provisions found under § 17-303, unless a permanent building or other
permanent obstruction already blocks traffic visibility.
      (7)   The sign may not contain illumination or animation, except that
illuminated signs shall be permissible upon review and approval of the Wamego
Governing Body. Approved illuminated signs must have a self-contained power
source, e.g. battery or solar.
      (8)   Every sidewalk sign shall be secured to prevent movement or
overturning, in a manner approved by the Building Official.
§ 17-2403 PERMITS AND FEES REQUIRED.
   (a)   A permit shall be required for the erection, construction, or
alteration of any sign in the Wamego Zoning Jurisdiction.
   (b)   Application for permits by other than the property owner shall be
accompanied, in each instance, by either a letter authorizing the placement of
a sign on the land or building, signed by the owner or his duly authorized
agent, or accompanied by a lease showing the right of the applicant. Such
application shall conform to the regulations herein provided, and no signboard
shall be erected or painted on any area until the application is acted upon and
granted.
   (c)   A fee in accordance with a schedule of fees adopted by the Governing
Body shall be charged for each permit granted; however, the city will waive the
charge for all new or expanding businesses in any commercial or industrial
district.
   (d)   If a sign, for which a permit is granted, is not erected within 60
days from date of the permit, the permit shall, unless renewed, become void.
   (e)   Advertising painted or placed on a structure shall be deemed subject
to these regulations if permanent and over eight square feet in area.
   (f)   All signs shall be constructed, located, and placed in accordance with
local ordinances and the laws of the State of Kansas.
   (g)   Permits, except for permits for temporary signs, are issued for the
life of the sign so long as it is kept in good condition, and changing
conditions do not make it a hazard or undesirable to adjoining property owners.
In such case, the city may direct its removal.
   (h)   Permits for temporary signs shall be issued annually.
§ 17-2404 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   All advertising signs, business signs, or bulletin boards not in accordance
or in compliance with this Article which were in existence prior to the
adoption date of this Title, shall be exempt from this Article except that upon
the change of ownership of any building or property having a nonconforming sign
which was in existence prior to adoption date of this Title, or upon remodeling
or renovating of the exterior of any building to the extent of greater than
50%, the nonconforming sign shall be brought into conformity with this Article
and any other city, state, or federal regulations.
§ 17-2405 REMOVAL OF SIGNS FROM VACANT BUILDINGS.
   Signs located on vacant buildings shall be removed by the property owner or
his authorized agent within 30 days after said premises are vacated.
ARTICLE 25: PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
Section
   
17-2501   Requirements
   
17-2502   Plans and approval required
   
17-2503   Construction requirements
   
17-2504   Performance
   
17-2505   Application
§ 17-2501 REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Title, when any building or structure
is hereafter erected or structurally altered to the extent of increasing the
floor area by 50% or more, or when an existing use has been changed to another
use, accessory off-street parking and/or loading spaces shall be provided as
required by the following schedule, except that these requirements shall not
apply in the “C-1" Commercial District.
Schedule of Minimum Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
Structures and Uses Minimum Off-Street Minimum Off-Street Loading Requirements
Schedule of Minimum Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
Structures and Uses       Minimum Off-Street         Minimum Off-Street Loading
                                                     Requirements
Bowling centers           4 spaces per lane          1 space per establishment
Churches, synagogues, and 1 space per 4 seats in     None required
temples                   main unit of worship
Commercial strip malls    1 space per 250 square     1 space per establishment
                          feet of floor area
Convalescent and rest     1 space per 3 beds, plus 1
home services             space per employee for     1 space per establishment
                          each shift
Drive-up facilities; bank 60 feet of waiting space
teller windows, fast food ahead of facility (1 space None required
pickup, and similar       is 20 feet)
facilities
Eating and drinking       Parking spaces equal to    2 spaces per establishment
places                    30% of capacity in persons
Education uses, adult day Parking spaces equal to
care, day care and        20% of capacity in         2 spaces per structure
primary schools           students or persons served
                          Parking spaces equal to
Education uses, all other 40% of capacity in         2 spaces per structure
                          students
                          8 spaces per reposing room
Funeral homes and chapels plus 1 space per 4 seats   2 spaces per establishment
                          in chapel
Hospitals                 1 space per 2 beds         3 spaces per structure
Hotels                    1 space per rental unit    1 space per establishment
Indoor recreation
centers; fitness clubs,   1 space per 125 square
arcades, skating rinks,   feet of gross floor area   1 space per establishment
bingo parlors, and
similar facilities
Libraries                 1 space per 500 square     1 space per structure
                          feet of floor area
Lodging and boarding      1 space per 2 rental units None required
houses
Manufactured home park    2 spaces per dwelling unit None required
Medical clinic            5 spaces per staff doctor  None required
                          or dentist
Motels                    1 space per rental unit    None required
Offices                   1 space per 250 square     None required
                          feet of gross floor area
Private clubs and lodges  1 space per 200 square     1 space per establishment
                          feet of floor area
Residential structures
(single - two-family      2 spaces per dwelling      None required
attached, two-family and
multi-family)
Residential structures    1 space per dwelling unit  None required
(single-family)
Retail sales              1 space per 200 square     1 space per establishment
establishments            feet of gross floor area
Roadside stands           4 spaces per establishment None required
Service establishments    1 space per 200 square     1 space per establishment
                          feet gross floor area
Theaters, auditoriums,    1 space per 4 people       1 space per establishment
and places of assembly    designed capacity
Veterinary establishments 3 spaces per staff doctor  None required
Wholesaling and           1 space per 2 employees    2 spaces per establishment
distribution operations
In all I-P Districts, the following parking and loading regulations shall
apply:
Office                    1 space per employee for   1 space per building
                          the largest shift
Manufacturing             1 space per employee for   2 spaces per establishment
                          the largest shift
Wholesaling and           1 space per largest shift  2 spaces per establishment
distribution operations
 
   (a)   Off-street parking spaces for uses permitted in the "C-S", "I-P", "I-
1", and "I-2" Districts shall be located behind the required front yard setback
line, and in the "I-P" District at least 20 feet behind the front lot line.
Off-street parking spaces shall be on the same lot as the building they serve.
   (b)   In all "I-P" Districts, required off-street parking shall be provided
on the lot of the use served, on a contiguous site, or within 600 feet of the
subject lot.
   (c)   Loading docks in "I-P" Districts must be set back a minimum of 70 feet
from the street right-of-way line.
   (d)   Visitor parking is allowed in the front yard area of "I-P" Districts
provided that said parking is set back at least 20 feet from the street right-
of-way line and provided further, that in no case shall more than ten parking
spaces be allowed.
   (e)   Exterior storage.
      (1)   All-weather, dust-free surfacing of areas for exterior storage of
business vehicles, equipment, and materials is not required.
      (2)   Exterior storage of business vehicles, equipment, and materials
shall not occur upon required off-street parking.
§ 17-2502 PLANS AND APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (a)   For all uses other than single-family residential structures, plans
showing layout and design of all off-street parking areas shall be submitted to
and approved by the Building Official prior to issuing a building permit, and
provisions for storm water drainage into an established drainage ditch or
covered storm sewer system on public right-of-way shall be required for all
parking lots more than 2,000 square feet in area. These provisions shall be
consistent with and in consideration of the city's overall storm drainage
system and future plans. Before approving any parking layout, the Building
Official shall satisfy himself that parking spaces provided and storm drainage
design is usable and meets standard design criteria of the city.
   (b)   In the case of multiple uses associated with a site, the Building
Official may calculate the parking requirement as the accumulative requirement
of the separate uses unless it is determined that the uses generate overlapping
parking demand.
§ 17-2503 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Parking lots for other than single-family dwellings that are 2,000
square feet in area or smaller shall be constructed of gravel to a depth of
four inches as a minimum standard.
   (b)   Parking lots for other than single-family dwellings that are larger
than 2,000 square feet in area shall be all-weather, dust-free and constructed
of the following materials or combination thereof:
      (1)   Concrete.
      (2)   Asphalt, exclusive of asphalt millings, except as base course.
      (3)   Prime and seal.
§ 17-2504 PERFORMANCE.
   In lieu of construction of the required parking lot, the Governing Body of
the city may accept a corporate surety bond, cashier's check, escrow account,
or other security of a type and in an amount approved by the Governing Body.
Such security shall be conditioned upon the actual completion of such work or
improvement within the specified time, and shall be enforceable by the
Governing Body by all equitable means.
§ 17-2505 APPLICATION.
   This Article shall not apply to any uses existing as of the adoption date of
this Title.
ARTICLE 26: LANDSCAPING AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
Section
   
17-2601   Minimum landscape requirements
   
17-2602   Stormwater management
   
17-2603   Stormwater management plan
   
17-2604   Stormwater requirements
   
17-2605   Stormwater facilities
   
17-2606   Construction timing and certification
   
17-2607   Stream protection corridor
   
17-2608   Operation and maintenance
   
17-2609   Disclaimer of liability
§ 17-2601 MINIMUM LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS.
   All property within the zoning jurisdiction of the City of Wamego shall
hereinafter be subject to the following minimum requirements:
   (a)   The open, unpaved areas of each property shall be graded to provide
for the adequate drainage of all storm water and shall be free of hazards,
nuisances, or unsanitary conditions and shall conform to all provisions of the
building code.
   (b)   Open, unpaved areas shall be appropriately landscaped to provide an
attractive appearance to enhance the character of the neighborhood.
      (1)   All set-back areas in “I-P" Districts shall be landscaped with an
effective combination of trees, ground cover, and shrubbery.
   (c)   No vegetation shall overhang a public street or sidewalk below a
height of ten feet or obstruct views of pedestrian and vehicular movements.
   (d)   Where districts "M-P", "C-S", “I-P", “I-1", and "I-2" adjoin “R-L",
“R-M", “R-H", “R-1", "R-2", R-3" and "P-I" Districts, they shall be
appropriately separated by a landscaped area of at least 15 feet wide or a
decorative architectural screen of at least six feet high. Additionally, these
requirements shall apply where "C-S", "C-2", "I-P", “I-1", and "I-2" Districts
adjoin the "M-P" and "R-P" Districts. A landscaped area and decorative
architectural screen shall not be required where these uses are separated by a
public street or alley.
   (e)   Parking areas abutting or within 25 feet of public walkways or streets
shall be appropriately separated by a landscaped area or a decorative
architectural screen. The landscaped area or architectural screen shall not
exceed three feet in height.
   (f)   In the "I-P" District, areas used for parking and loading must be
visually screened from adjacent streets with lineal or grouped masses of trees
and shrubs.
   (g)   In the "I-P" District, areas used for storage (including storage of
company vehicles, except passenger vehicles) and refuse collection, must be
located behind a 20 foot front yard setback and must be visually screened from
adjacent streets and properties with lineal or grouped masses of trees and
shrubs.
   (h)   In the “I-P" District, all utility lines must be placed underground.
Areas used for telephone or electrical service must be visually screened from
adjacent streets and properties with lineal or grouped masses of trees and
shrubs, provided that, where said service areas abut public walkways or
streets, the landscaped area shall not exceed three feet in height.
§ 17-2602 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   In order to reduce property damage, minimize siltation and soil erosion, and
to minimize the hazards of personal injury and loss of life due to flooding,
and in order to provide for basic protections to the quality of water in the
various streams, drainage channels, ponds and reservoirs in the zoning
jurisdiction of the City of Wamego, the regulations set forth under §§
17-2603 through
17-2609 below shall hereinafter be applicable to all the following instances,
except as noted under division (b) below:
   (a)   Subdivision of land, where the total platted area exceeds two acres,
and/or where the total impermeable surface area upon full development,
including streets, parking lots, buildings, drives and sidewalks, is estimated
to exceed one half acre; development for multiple-family dwellings; development
for more than two dwelling units on a lot or adjoining lots; development of a
manufactured home park; all planned unit developments (PUDs); and commercial,
industrial or other types of non-residential development having a total site
impermeable surface area of more than one half acre, including, but not limited
to such features as roofs, parking lots, driveways, and sidewalks.
   (b)   Such regulations shall not apply to:
      (1)   Construction of any building or future improvements on a site,
which have been previously provided with approved stormwater management control
facilities as a part of a larger unit of development.
      (2)   Remodeling, repair, replacement, and improvements to any existing
structure or facility that do not cause an increase in the impermeable surface
area by more than one half acre. This exemption shall not apply where the
cumulative increase in impermeable area on a tract after May 28, 2009 exceeds
one half acre.
      (3)   Development where it can be demonstrated by a study, conducted by
an engineer, duly licensed by the State of Kansas, that the detention of
stormwater runoff or other measures referenced herein would be detrimental to
the drainage basin or would provide no benefit to development downstream. Only
such specified measure(s) shall be rendered inapplicable to the subject
development.
      (4)   Development in the "C-1" Retail Business District.
§ 17-2603 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   Developers shall submit, along with the preliminary plat, or plans for
development of a site or building, a stormwater management plan, prepared by an
engineer duly licensed by the State of Kansas, describing in sufficient detail
the measures which will be employed to comply with the regulations contained
under §
17-2604 of this Article. No building permit shall be issued by the city nor
shall a final plat be approved by the Planning Commission until such plan has
been approved by the city.
§ 17-2604 STORMWATER REQUIREMENTS.
   Notwithstanding applicable federal and state stormwater quality requirements
imposed during construction, the following measures shall be applied, relating
to post construction stormwater management.
   (a)   The quantity of impervious surface shall be minimized as practical for
the proposed principal use.
   (b)   Best management practices (BMP) shall be employed to minimize off-site
stormwater runoff, increase on-site infiltration, encourage natural filtration,
simulate natural drainage patterns and minimize off-site discharge of
pollutants to surface water. BMP may include measures such as detention and
retention basins, recharge trenches, porous paving and piping, control
terraces, rain gardens and swales, flattening of drainage slopes or other
measures having widespread acceptance or endorsed by the Kansas Department of
Health and Environment.
   (c)   The calculated peak rate of stormwater run-off that would be directed
off-site upon full development of a proposed subdivision, or after the proposed
development of a single tract, shall not exceed the peak rate of stormwater
run-off that exists prior to such development. Calculations shall take under
consideration any contributing runoff from areas adjacent to or upstream from
the site. The peak rate of stormwater runoff shall be determined upon
application of the design criteria contained under Section 4 of the 2008 Wamego
Stormwater Master Plan, prepared by Wilson & Co.
   (d)   Where on-site measures to reduce the peak run-off rate to pre-
development levels are deemed to be impractical, determination of required off-
site improvements shall be made by an engineer, duly licensed by the State of
Kansas, and shall be made at the expense of the developer. The Planning
Commission shall review and recommend Governing Body approval of one of the
following approaches:
      (1)   Off-site measures, including detention on public right-of-way or on
property owned by others, where suitable approvals and agreements running with
the land are in place, setting forth financial responsibilities for the
constructions of such measures and setting forth the party responsible for
their continued maintenance.
      (2)   Off-site improvements to stormwater facilities and channels owned
by private parties, where suitable approvals and agreements running with the
land are in place setting forth financial responsibilities for the construction
of such improvements, and setting forth the party responsible for their
continued maintenance by the developer.
      (3)   Off-site improvements to stormwater facilities and channels owned
by the city or another public agency, at no cost to the city, provided that the
Governing Body approves such alterations to city owned public facilities, or
that any necessary approvals required from other public agencies are secured.
   (e)   Where the amount of storage capacity can be increased to provide a
benefit to the public, as in cases where a channel draining other properties
and streets passes through the subject property, negotiations for public
participation in the cost of development may be feasible.
§ 17-2605 STORMWATER FACILITIES.
   All stormwater conduits, channels, basins, inlets, etc., must be capable of
accommodating the calculated peak rate of stormwater discharge, assuming full
development of the upstream catchment basin, as determined by an engineer, duly
licensed by the State of Kansas, employing the design criteria found under
Section 4 of the 2008 Wamego Stormwater Master Plan, prepared by Wilson & Co.
Construction of all such facilities shall be in accordance with city standards
and shall be subject to inspection by the city for compliance therewith. Where
stormwater facilities can be upsized to create a benefit to the public,
negotiations for public participation in the cost of development may be
feasible.
§ 17-2606 CONSTRUCTION TIMING AND CERTIFICATION.
   The developer shall furnish the city with a certification by an engineer,
duly licensed by the State of Kansas, that the stormwater control measures are
complete, having the required storage capacity, and that all stormwater
facilities are fully functional, prior to the development of any land, the
runoff from which is to be addressed by the control measure, in the case of a
subdivision; or prior to occupancy of a building, in the case of other
developments.
§ 17-2607 STREAM PROTECTION CORRIDOR.
   In cases where a defined open drainage course serving an upstream basin of
ten or more acres passes beside or through a property proposed to be subdivided
or developed, a stream protection corridor shall be provided, wherein no
buildings or structures shall be sited, and no soil shall be disturbed, except
as needed to furnish utilities, or to meet the above requirements. The purpose
of the corridor is to provide for sufficient vegetation to absorb, filter and
slow the speed of stormwater entering the drainage course. Removal of tree,
shrubs and ground cover in such corridors shall be minimized unless suitably
replaced within 60 days of construction. Restoration of vegetation shall be
addressed in the developer's stormwater management plan for the site. The width
of the required corridor shall be measured from the ordinary high-water mark of
the open drainage course, defined as the edge of vegetation, where delineated,
or the edge of the channel required to accommodate a two-year storm, where not
delineated. The width of the required corridor from the ordinary high-water
mark of the open drainage course shall be in accordance with the following
table:
 
Contributing Drainage Area Minimum Buffer Width
10 to 40 acres             30 feet
40 to 160 acres            50 feet
160 to 2,200 acres         60 feet
Greater than 2,200 acres   JOO feet
 
§ 17-2608 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   All stormwater management systems shall have an operation and maintenance
plan (O&M plan) to ensure that systems function as designed. This plan shall be
reviewed and approved at the same time as the stormwater management plan,
required under § 17-2603 above.
   (a)   The O&M plan shall, at a minimum, include:
      (1)   Contact information regarding the owner of the stormwater
management system.
      (2)   Contact information regarding the party responsible for operation
and maintenance.
      (3)   A schedule for inspection and maintenance.
      (4)   The routine and non-routine maintenance tasks to be undertaken.
      (5)   An inspection and maintenance log sheet to record the results of
the inspection.
   (b)   The city shall also require that an annual report, including all
inspection and maintenance logs be submitted to the city in the month of
December.
   (c)   The city reserves the right to inspect and to require the owner to
perform maintenance on private stormwater management systems, or other
stormwater facilities on private property. Maintenance of such systems and
facilities shall ordinarily be the responsibility of the property owner and
shall include all necessary and proper maintenance including without
limitations:
      (1)   Debris removal and cleaning.
      (2)   Cutting of vegetation.
      (3)   Repair of erosion.
      (4)   Removal of silt.
      (5)   Maintenance of structural facilities.
   (d)   Where it is determined that the public is to own and maintain
stormwater management systems or other stormwater facilities, Governing Body
acceptance of the necessary easement(s) is required.
§ 17-2609 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The performance standards and design criteria set forth herein establish
minimum requirements which must be implemented with good engineering practice
and workmanship. Use of the requirements contained herein shall not constitute
a representation, guarantee or warranty of any kind by the city, or its
officers and employees, nor shall approval of a stormwater management plan
imply that the land uses permitted will be free from damages caused by
stormwater runoff. The requirements of this Article were established to
consider historical records of average rainfall and engineering and scientific
methods. However, larger storms may occur or stormwater run-off heights may be
increased by manmade or natural causes. The provisions of the Article,
therefore, shall not be deemed to create liability on the part of the city or
any officer or employee thereof with respect to any legislative or
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
ARTICLE 27: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
17-2701   Minimum requirements for traffic regulations
§ 17-2701 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   All business properties hereinafter improved shall include provision for
vehicular access in accordance with the following:
   (a)   Plans for the erection or structural alteration of any business use
dependent on vehicles entering onto the business site or parking lot shall be
approved by the Building Official, who may require such changes therein in
relation to yards, location of curb cuts, width of drives, location of signs
and accessory uses, and buildings and construction of buildings as it may deem
best suited to insure safety, to minimize traffic difficulties, and to
safeguard adjacent properties.
ARTICLE 28: BUILDINGS AND USES AFFECTED
Section
   
17-2801   Minimum building requirements
   
17-2802   Buildings and structures moved in
   
17-2803   Elevation
§ 17-2801 MINIMUM BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   No building or structure shall be erected, enlarged, reconstructed, or moved
into the planning area with less than the following:
   (a)   Dwelling units.
      (1)   All dwelling units shall provide a minimum floor area, exclusive of
porches, breezeways, and garages, as follows:
 
Type of Dwelling Minimum Area
Single-family    800 square feet
Two-family       800 square feet per unit
Multiple-family  600 square feet per unit
 
      (2)   Every dwelling unit shall be provided with at least one water
closet, which water closet shall be located within the dwelling and a room,
which affords privacy.
      (3)   Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink, which is
connected to running water and an approved sewer system.
      (4)   Every dwelling unit shall be provided with an approved electrical
service.
      (5)   Every dwelling unit shall be enclosed with an exterior wall
surface, other than tar paper or corrugated metal.
      (6)   No basement or cellar shall be occupied for residential purposes
until the main portion, aboveground, is completed.
   (b)   Motels.
      (1)   The number of motel units permitted on a tract of land shall not
exceed the number obtained by dividing the total square feet of area of the
site by 1,500.
      (2)   Motels shall be served with an approved public water supply and
approved public sanitary sewer system.
      (3)   Each motel unit shall contain not less than 200 square feet of
floor area.
   (c)   Tents. No tent, except play tents for children, shall be used for any
purpose except those authorized by the Governing Body.
§ 17-2802 BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES MOVED IN.
   Buildings and structures moved into the Wamego Zoning Jurisdiction or from
one location to another within the Jurisdiction must conform with the district
zoning regulations of the district into which the building or structure is to
be moved. If the building or structure is to be located within the City of
Wamego, the following requirements apply:
   (a)   The building or structure must meet building, fire, safety, and health
regulations which would be applicable to the building or structure if built or
installed on the site, prior to issuance of an occupancy certificate by the
City Building Inspector.
   (b)   Prior to removal from the initial site, the building or structure must
be inspected by the City Building Inspector, who must furnish the owner with a
report specifying the deficiencies of the building or structure with respect to
the city's regulations, which must be corrected before an occupancy certificate
may be issued. The moving of manufactured homes or other factory-built
buildings and structures, such as cooling towers, batch plants, walk-in
coolers, etc., to sites in the city, shall not be subject to this requirement.
   (c)   No previously occupied building intended for use as two-family or
multiple-family housing shall be moved into the Wamego Zoning Jurisdiction, or
from one location to another within the jurisdiction.
§ 17-2803 ELEVATION.
   Unless otherwise directed by the City Building Inspector, the first-floor
elevation of a building or group of buildings shall be at least 18 inches above
the grade of the center of the street or roadway.
ARTICLE 29: ADDITIONAL HEIGHT, AREA AND USE REGULATIONS
Section
   
17-2901   Qualifications and supplements to district regulations
   
17-2902   Home occupations
   
17-2903   Fences
   
17-2904   Building setback lines
   
17-2905   Lots of record
   
17-2906   Canopy and marquee
   
17-2907   Wind energy conversion systems (WECS)
   
17-2908   Joint driveways and garages
   
17-2909   Protection of sewer and other utility lines
   
17-2910   Mining and extraction of minerals
   
17-2911   Vacated streets and alleys
   
17-2912   Sanitary sewerage requirements
   
17-2913   Wireless communications towers
   
17-2914   Manufactured homes
   
17-2915   City owned utility buildings and structures
§ 17-2901 QUALIFICATIONS AND SUPPLEMENTS TO DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The regulations hereinafter set forth in this section qualify or supplement,
as the case may be, the district regulations appearing elsewhere in this Title.
   (a)   In districts where public buildings, semi-public buildings, public
service buildings, hospitals, institutional buildings, schools, and churches
and similar places of worship are permitted, one foot of additional height will
be permitted for each one foot of additional building setback provided.
   (b)   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator headhouses, fire towers, grain
elevators, monuments, stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts, tanks, water
towers, ornamental towers and spires, church steeples, radio and television
towers, or necessary mechanical appurtenances, which do not conflict with
airport approach zones, may be erected to a height not to exceed 150 feet.
   (c)   Accessory buildings may be built in a side or rear yard, and shall not
encroach on any required utility easements nor be located any closer to the
rear lot line of the property than six feet, except that where vehicular access
to a garage is perpendicular to the alley line, a setback of at least 20 feet
from the alley line shall be required.
   (d)   No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the
construction of the main building has been actually commenced, and no accessory
building shall be used for dwelling purposes.
   (e)   The setback line for the front, side and rear yard requirements shall
be determined by measuring the horizontal distance from the property line to
the nearest foundation wall of the building. Except as provided by other
regulations contained herein, awnings, bay windows, decks five feet or less
above grade at the building foundation, uncovered porches, stoops, and above
grade steps (regardless of whether a foundation wall is employed); and
unsupported roof overhangs, shall not be subject to the setback requirements,
however, only these features which are 30 inches or less in height shall be
permitted to encroach beyond half the required yard. Window wells and below
grade stairways shall also not be subject to the setback requirements but shall
not encroach beyond half the required yard.
   (f)   Retaining walls facing side or rear property lines, adjoining
residential districts and exceeding 30 inches in height above the lower grade
shall be setback from the property line a distance equal to or exceeding the
height of the wall, unless approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (g)   On streets where a front yard is less than that required by these
regulations and has been maintained for existing structures on lots having a
frontage of 50% or more of the total frontage on one side of that portion of
the street line between two intersection streets, the front yard setback need
not be greater than the average setback of the existing structures; provided,
that these regulations shall not be interpreted to permit a front yard setback
of less than 15 feet.
   (h)   Open or lattice-enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways and
balconies opening upon fire towers, and the ordinary projections of chimneys
and flues into the rear yard may be permitted by the City Building Inspector
for a distance of not more than three-and-one-half feet and where the same are
so placed as not to obstruct light and ventilation.
   (i)   For the purpose of the side yard regulations, a two-family dwelling or
a multiple-family dwelling shall be considered as one building occupying one
lot.
   (j)   Temporary buildings and temporary construction signs that are used in
conjunction with construction work may be permitted in any district during the
period that the building is being constructed, but such temporary building and/
or sign shall be removed upon completion of the construction work.
   (k)   No side yards are required where dwelling units are erected above
commercial structures, and front, side, and rear yard requirements shall not
apply to the interior walls of dwelling units established under the Kansas
Apartment Ownership Act or under the Kansas Townhouse Ownership Act.
   (l)   Whenever the number of employees is restricted in connection with any
use in the commercial districts, such maximum number applies only to employees
principally engaged in processing, selling, or treating materials or products
on the premises and not to employees engaged in delivery or similar activities.
   (m)   Radio communications antennas shall be permitted in any commercial,
industrial, or agricultural district providing the height of said towers do not
conflict with any airport approach or landing zone or with any other ordinance,
and providing that towers within 150 feet of a residential district shall not
exceed 80 feet in height. Also see §
17-2913 for wireless communications tower requirements.
   (n)   On a corner lot in any residential district, nothing shall be erected,
placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as materially to impede
vision between a height of two-and-one-half and ten feet above the centerline
grades of the intersecting streets in the area measured from the point of
intersection of the centerline of the streets, 80 feet in each direction along
the centerline of the streets. At the intersection of major or arterial
streets, the 80 foot distance shall be increased to 120 feet. Also see VISION
TRIANGLE definition.
   (o)   In any district, more than one structure housing a permitted or
permissible principal use may be erected on a zoning lot, provided that space,
yard and other requirements of this Title shall be met for each structure as
though it were on an individual lot.
   (p)   Every building hereafter erected or moved shall be on a lot adjacent
to a public street, or with access to an approved private street, and all
structures shall be so located on lots as to provide safe and convenient access
for servicing, fire protection and required off-street parking.
   (q)   Privately owned swimming pools shall be enclosed in accordance with
the codes of the City of Wamego.
   (r)   Major recreational equipment such as boats, boat trailers, travel
trailers, pick-up campers or coaches, camping buses or converted trucks, and
tent trailers shall not be stored in a residential district except within an
enclosed building, or behind the front yard setback.
      (1)   On a corner lot such equipment shall be kept back of the front yard
setback lines on both street sides.
      (2)   No such recreational equipment shall be utilized for living,
sleeping or housekeeping purposes when parked on a residential lot or in any
location not approved for such use.
   (s)   Creation of lots for single-family attached units, conversion of a
two-family structure to single-family attached units, or conversion of a two-
or multi-family structure to individually owned single-family dwelling units
may be permitted subject to the requirements of the Subdivision Regulations,
and to the following:
      (1)   An application shall be filed for review and comment by City Staff
and the Planning Commission and approval by the Governing Body. Such
application shall be accompanied by the following information as a minimum:
         (A)   A plot plan showing site and structure arrangements and proposed
platting or re-platting.
         (B)   A full legal description of the subject property, including
legal descriptions of proposed individual properties.
         (C)   A description of proposed structural and utility configurations
to provide for individual services and maintenance.
         (D)   A description of proposed public access patterns, both vehicular
and pedestrian.
         (E)   A copy of the declaration and covenants which shall be written
to run with the land in which shall be specified methods for providing for
maintenance of shared property and/or easements, responsibilities for shared
expenses and continued use of the property for specified purposes, provisions
relating to insurance required to be obtained and maintained by an association
and/or by each unit owner, and any other provisions which may be required by
the Townhouse Ownership Act (K.S.A. 58-3702 et seq.). Such declaration and
covenants shall be written to provide for the long-term maintenance and use of
the premises for residential purposes only, within the overall context of
neighborhood development.
         (F)   Any other supplementary information as may be required to assess
short- and long-term neighborhood impacts associated with the proposal.
      (2)   The applicant for unit conversion shall submit with his application
a consent agreement signed by 75% of all owners of property within 200 feet of
the premises whereon the unit conversion is proposed.
      (3)   Where a two-family or multiple-family structure is created for or
converted to individually owned, single-family dwelling units, a separation of
utility service lines is required from each individually owned, single-family
dwelling unit to a public utility line, private well, septic system, or lagoon
which is located in an area of a lot or building that is owned by or accessible
to a party legally responsible for maintenance of utility lines or systems on
behalf of the owners of each single-family dwelling unit.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall not approve an application for
creation of single-family attached units, or conversion from a two-family or
multiple-family structure to individually-owned, single-family dwelling units,
where it is determined that an existing or proposed utility service line,
private well, septic system, or lagoon serving a particular unit exists or is
proposed to exist over, within or under the property of another unit. This
prohibition shall not apply to utility improvements placed upon exterior
property within an easement granted to the owner of the served property for the
maintenance thereof nor shall this prohibition apply in the case of a three-
dimensional property description where a line is placed over the defined
property, or under the defined property, unless sited in the ground.
      (5)   All conversions of two-family or multiple-family structures to
individually-owned, single-family dwelling units are subject to all applicable
City of Wamego codes, including building permit application and inspection
procedures referenced in § 4-207 of the Code of the City of Wamego, Kansas.
      (6)   The above procedures and regulations are applicable to conversions
even where new construction is not required.
      (7)   After reviewing any application of the type described under
division (s)(1) above against all applicable city codes, the Building Official/
Code Enforcement Officer shall report to the Planning Commission if there are
any areas of non-compliance with city codes.
   (t)   In the agricultural districts, no more than two licensed or unlicensed
motor vehicles which are in the process of restoration to operating condition
may be stored.
§ 17-2902 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations shall meet all of the following conditions:
   (a)   The residential character of the property is maintained.
   (b)   The activity is conducted in such a manner as not to give an outward
appearance nor manifest any characteristic of a business in the ordinary
meaning of the term, nor infringe upon the right of neighboring residents to
enjoy the peaceful occupancy of their homes.
   (c)   No display or storage shall indicate from the exterior of the
buildings that they are being used in part for any purpose other than a
dwelling or accessory building.
   (d)   Not more than one non-illuminated nameplate is used. The nameplate
shall be attached to the building and shall not exceed three square feet in
area.
   (e)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses of a person off the lot if the occupation is
conducted in a residence, or outside the individual dwelling unit if conducted
in other than a residence. In the case of electrical interference, no equipment
or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference in any
radio or television receivers off the premises or causes fluctuations in line
voltage off the premises.
   (f)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in substantially
greater volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood.
   (g)   The owner shall have received from the City of Wamego Zoning Appeals
Board, a Special Use Permit to operate such home occupation and in accordance
with the provisions of this Title and other applicable rules and regulations.
Such permit shall be personal to the applicant thereof and shall not be
assignable.
   (h)   A Special Use Permit shall be reconsidered by the City of Wamego
Zoning Appeals Board with regard to revoking the permit if a review petition
stating problems regarding the home occupation has been submitted and signed by
50% of all owners of property within 200 feet of the premises whereon the home
occupation is conducted.
   (i)   The following uses shall not in any event be considered home
occupations within this definition:
      (1)   Registered day care facilities as defined by Article 3 of these
regulations.
      (2)   Funeral homes.
      (3)   Restaurants.
      (4)   Grocery stores.
      (5)   Stables, animal kennels, or hospitals.
      (6)   Tourist accommodations including bed and breakfast establishments,
unless specifically permitted in the district.
      (7)   Renting of trailers or equipment.
      (8)   Auto and other vehicle repair.
§ 17-2903 FENCES.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided in other codes, ordinances, or
resolutions, the following regulations shall apply to the construction
offences:
   (a)   (1)   Fences installed on individual residential zoning lots may be
constructed in a front yard out to the lot lines provided that fences
constructed in any portion of a front yard shall not exceed four feet in height
and shall be designed to include at least 70% open space. Fences in a front
yard shall not be constructed beyond the sidewalk.
      (2)   In all other circumstances, including commercial and industrial
development, and public and quasi-public uses such as school grounds, parks and
other administrative facilities, fences may be constructed in a front yard,
except that no fence, unless erected for such public and quasi-public uses,
shall be constructed to a height greater than six feet unless otherwise
authorized by the Board of Zoning Appeals upon a finding that the public
welfare will be preserved.
   (b)   No fence shall be constructed which will constitute a traffic hazard
and no permit shall be granted for the construction of a fence unless the City
Building Inspector has certified that the proposed fence will not constitute a
traffic hazard or a safety hazard to pedestrians.
   (c)   No fence shall be constructed in such a manner or be of such design as
to be hazardous or dangerous to persons or animals.
   (d)   No person shall erect or maintain any fence which will materially
damage the adjacent property by obstructing the view, shutting out the
sunlight, or hindering ventilation, or any fence which shall adversely affect
the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (e)   All fences shall conform to the construction standards of the building
code and other applicable ordinances and resolutions.
   (f)   Fences shall be exempt from the provisions of §
17-2904; however, the city retains the right to remove any fence for right-of-
way or easement purposes.
   (g)   Lot line landscaping including low berming and decorative elements not
exceeding three feet in height shall not constitute a fence within the meaning
of this definition.
§ 17-2904 BUILDING SETBACK LINES.
   Building setback lines are hereby established for all arterial and collector
streets, as shown on the approved “Community Street System” map in the Wamego
Comprehensive Plan. The setback lines, as established in this section, shall be
held to the minimum for the purpose of promoting the public health, safety,
morals, order, convenience and economy in the process of development and shall
conform with the following requirements:
   (a)   Arterial streets. No building or structure which fronts or sides on an
arterial street shall be located nearer to the centerline of the arterial
street than the sum of the required front yard (in feet) plus 50 feet, except
as provided in §
17-2903.
   (b)   Collector streets. No building or structure which fronts or sides on a
collector street shall be located nearer to the centerline of the collector
street than the sum of the required front yard (in feet) plus 40 feet, except
as provided in §
17-2903.
§ 17-2905 LOTS OF RECORD.
   A lot or group of lots which were platted and recorded in the office of the
Register of Deeds prior to the effective date of this Ordinance, may be used
for any purpose permitted in the district in which it is located; provided,
however, that no residential building permit shall be issued for construction
of a residential structure that does not conform with the minimum yard and
height requirements unless specifically authorized by the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
§ 17-2906 CANOPY AND MARQUEE.
   A canopy, marquee, or balcony may be permitted to "overhang a public way" in
Districts "C-1" and "C-2" providing:
   (a)   The canopy, marquee, or balcony is constructed and maintained in
accordance with the City Building Code and other codes, ordinances, and
resolutions.
   (b)   No portion of the canopy, marquee, or balcony, including supports,
shall be less than eight feet above the level of the sidewalk or other public
way except as required by §
17-2901(m) above.
   (c)   The canopy, marquee, or balcony shall not extend beyond a point two
feet inside the curb line of a public street.
§ 17-2907 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS (WECS).
   Wind energy conversion systems (WECS) may be permitted subject to the
following requirements:
   (a)   The minimum distance from any lot line or overhead power line to any
tower, pole or other support structure of the wind energy conversion system
shall be established by the following minimum standards:
Rotor Diameter (Feet) Setback Distance (Feet)
Rotor Diameter (Feet) Setback Distance (Feet)
5                     100
10                    165
15                    220
20                    270
25                    310
30                    340
35                    365
40                    385
 
   (b)   Intermediate rotor size distances shall be interpolated from the above
values.
   (c)   The WECS shall not be located in any required yard.
   (d)   The WECS shall not cause interference to microwave communications or
radio and television reception in the area. Noise levels measured at the lot
line shall not exceed 60 DBA in a residential zone.
   (e)   To limit climbing access to WECS tower, or other support structure, a
six foot high fence with locking portal shall be place around the WECS support
or if a tower is utilized, the tower climbing apparatus shall be limited to no
lower than 12 feet from the ground or the WECS support may be mounted on a
rooftop.
   (f)   All blades of a WECS shall be constructed of non-metallic substances.
If the applicant can prove, in writing form, that no electromagnetic
interference will result, a metal content of up to 25% will be acceptable.
   (g)   The WECS shall be located in compliance with the guidelines of the
Federal Aviation Regulations with regard to airport approach and clearance
around VOR and DVOR stations.
   (h)   Height of the WECS shall not exceed the maximum height restriction in
the zone where it is located by more than 20 feet The height of the WECS shall
be measured at the center of the blade diameter.
   (i)   Data pertaining to the WECS' safety and structural integrity shall be
certified by a licensed engineer and filed with the building permit
application. The tower or support and top adapter shall meet the restrictions
specified in the city's building code.
   (j)   The WECS, if interconnected to a utility system, shall meet the
requirements for interconnection and operation as set forth in the electric
utility's current service regulations applicable to WECS.
   (k)   A plot plan shall be submitted with the application for building
permit showing the proposed location and height of the WECS, fencing and all
existing buildings within 200 feet of the exterior lot lines.
   (l)   The owner/operator shall provide covenants, easements or similar
documentation to assure sufficient wind to operate the WECS unless adequate
accessibility to the wind is provided by the site.
   (m)   The owner/operator shall certify that the WECS does not violate any
covenants of record.
   (n)   The applicant shall provide a certificate of liability insurance.
Annually the owner/operator shall present evidence to the Zoning Administrator
that the liability insurance is still in effect.
§ 17-2908 JOINT DRIVEWAYS AND GARAGES.
   Where joint driveways and joint garages were in existence prior to the
passage of this Title, it shall be permissible to repair, reconstruct or
enlarge joint garages and it is not necessary to conform to the provisions
governing internal lot lines.
§ 17-2909 PROTECTION OF SEWER AND OTHER UTILITY LINES.
   No building or addition thereto shall be erected over or across any public
sewer or utility line, nor upon any platted or recorded easement, unless
permission is granted in writing by the respective party whose lines are
involved.
§ 17-2910 MINING AND EXTRACTION OF MINERALS.
   In districts where mineral extraction is a permitted use, the following
shall apply:
   (a)   In the case of open excavation, there will be required a substantial
fence with suitable gates completely enclosing the portion of the property in
which the excavation is located, and such fence shall be located 40 feet or
more distance from the edge of such excavation.
   (b)   The slope of the material in such sand, gravel or other pit shall not
exceed the normal angle of repose of such materials, and the plane of such
angle of repose shall not come nearer than 40 feet to any property lines.
   (c)   In the case of a quarry or other excavation in rock, there will be
required a substantial fence, with suitable gates at all points a distance of
40 feet or more from the face of any quarry walls.
   (d)   Rock crushers, cement plants or other crushing, grinding, polishing,
or cutting machinery or other physical or chemical process for treating the
product of such quarry may be prohibited.
   (e)   No such quarry shall be nearer than 40 feet to any property boundary
line, street or highway right-of-way line.
§ 17-2911 VACATED STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Whenever any street, alley or other public right-of-way is vacated by
official action of the Governing Body, any zoning districts adjoining each side
of any such vacated street, alley or public-way shall be automatically extended
to the center of such vacated street or alley and all area included in such
adjusted boundary shall then and thenceforth be subject to all regulations of
the extended districts.
§ 17-2912 SANITARY SEWERAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   All new construction of residential units, relocation of residential units,
manufactured housing and all other buildings which would generate sewage, shall
be connected to a public sewer system where available, or provided with a
private system meeting the requirements of the Pottawatomie County Sanitation
Code.
§ 17-2913 WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS.
   Wireless communication and other telecommunications towers may be permitted
subject to the following requirements:
   (a)   The minimum distance from any lot or property line or overhead power
line to any tower, pole or other support structure shall be the total maximum
height of the tower, pole or other support structure plus attached antennas.
   (b)   Anchors, guy wires and other accessory structures may not be located
in any required yard.
   (c)   The tower, pole or other support structure shall not exceed the
maximum height restriction in the zone where it is located by more than 30
feet, unless technical data indicating a greater requirement for adequate
reception is provided.
   (d)   Unauthorized access to the tower, pole or other support structure,
including anchors and guy wires, shall be limited by provision of an
immediately surrounding six foot high fence with locking portal. Tower climbing
apparatus shall be limited to no lower than 12 feet from the ground.
   (e)   Telecommunications towers shall be located in compliance with the
guidelines of the Federal Aviation Regulations with regard to airport approach
and clearance around VOR and DVOR Stations.
   (f)   The tower or other support structure shall be designed to permit
addition of antenna array for at least two additional service providers so as
to limit the number of permitted structures in the zoning jurisdiction.
   (g)   Information certifying safety and structural integrity of the tower
and other support structures shall be certified by a licensed engineer and
filed with the permit application.
   (h)   When located within 1,000 feet of a residential district, the tract
shall be appropriately landscaped to produce a visually pleasing appearance.
   (i)   An application for a permit to site a wireless telecommunications
facility shall be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   A site development plan, including landscape provisions and
topographic information.
      (2)   A technical description of the tower and the reasons for its design
and location.
      (3)   An explanation of need for a separate tower as opposed to an
existing facility.
      (4)   Information establishing structural integrity and capacity for
additional antenna array.
      (5)   Proof of ownership or authorization to use the proposed site.
      (6)   Copies of any necessary easements.
      (7)   A certificate of liability insurance.
      (8)   An affidavit certifying that the space on the proposed tower will
be made available to future users when technically feasible.
   (j)   The applicant shall also provide such other additional support
information as may be determined by the city.
§ 17-2914 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   The following regulations shall apply to manufactured homes located in the
Wamego Zoning Jurisdiction:
   (a)   All manufactured homes intended for new installation in the zoning
jurisdiction of the City of Wamego after the effective date of this Title shall
bear a certification plate pursuant to the "National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974", 4Z U.S.C. 5401 et seq., as
amended.
   (b)   No manufactured home, or portion thereof, shall be moved onto any lot
or parcel for storage or any other purpose than for a residence in any district
and no such home shall be temporarily or permanently located in any district
not otherwise permitting such homes. These provisions do not preclude the use
of prefabricated mobile structures designed for offices in business or
industrial districts, but no manufactured/mobile homes unless specifically
permitted.
   (c)   Residential design manufactured homes shall comply with the following:
      (1)   The unit shall be HUD certified.
      (2)   Roof covering shall be residential in appearance, including but not
limited to, approved wood, asphalt composition or fiberglass shingles, but
excluding corrugated aluminum or corrugated fiberglass.
      (3)   Exterior siding shall be of a non-reflective material such as wood,
composition, simulated wood, clapboards, conventional vinyl metal siding,
brick, stucco, or similar materials, but excluding smooth, ribbed or corrugated
metal or plastic panels. Siding material shall extend below the top of the
exterior foundation wall or the joint between siding and foundation wall shall
be flashed.
      (4)   The manufactured home shall be installed in accordance with the
recommended installation procedures of the manufacturer or the standards set by
the International Conference of Building Officials and published in "Guidelines
for Manufactured Housing Installations", as amended. A continuous permanent
masonry foundation or masonry curtain wall, un-pierced except for required
ventilation and access, which may include basements and garages, shall be
installed under the perimeter of the home.
      (5)   At each exit door there shall be a landing that is a minimum of
three by three feet.
      (6)   All manufactured home running gear, tongues, axles, and wheels must
be removed from the site at the time of installation of the home on the lot.
      (7)   Any addition to the residential-design manufactured home shall
comply with all construction requirements of the Federal Manufactured Homes
Construction and Safety Standards, otherwise known as the HUD code.
      (8)   The finished floor of the residential-design manufactured home
shall be a maximum of 18 inches above the exterior finished grade of the lot on
which it is located.
§ 17-2915 CITY OWNED UTILITY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   Utility buildings and structures owned by the City of Wamego shall not be
subject to the yard setback requirements of this Zoning Ordinance.
ARTICLE 30: SITE PLAN REVIEW
Section
   
17-3001   Intent and purpose
   
17-3002   Applicability
   
17-3003   Site plan requirements
   
17-3004   Review standards
   
17-3005   Approval
   
17-3006   Assurance of performance
   
17-3007   Project completion/release of performance guarantee
   
17-3008   Minor site plan review
   
17-3009   Site plan amendments
   
17-3010   Appeals
   
17-3011   Enforcement, violation and penalty
§ 17-3001 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   Site plan regulations provide a mechanism for the city to review site
development proposals for consistency with good land planning and site
engineering principles, conformity with the requirements found elsewhere in the
Zoning Ordinance, and objectives of the City of Wamego Comprehensive Community
Plan. These site plan regulations also create an enforceable obligation to
build and develop in accordance with all specifications and notations contained
in the site plan document, as approved by the city. External elements of a
development such as building placement, parking layout, access patterns,
landscaping, storm drainage, utility accommodations, storage areas, trash
facilities, etc., often create significant impacts on adjoining properties and
the city in general, and as such, must be reviewed for conformity with city
requirements and implemented in accordance with these requirements.
§ 17-3002 APPLICABILITY.
   §§
17-3003 through
17-3007 shall only apply to non-residential development and to all multiple-
family (three or more living unit) development where a new building is proposed
as defined by this Title, or where an existing building is to be structurally
altered to the extent of increasing its floor area by 50% or more. These
sections, however, shall not apply to primary buildings having a floor area of
under 2,500 square feet, to buildings having an agricultural use, or to
detached accessory buildings. The provisions of this Article are not intended
to supersede or exempt development from the plan requirements provided under
other articles of this Zoning Ordinance, or other city provisions (e.g.,
building and fire codes), or the platting requirements of the Wamego
Subdivision Regulations.
§ 17-3003 SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to approving a building permit, or a zoning review in the case of
property located within the Wamego Extraterritorial Zoning Jurisdiction, the
Zoning Administrator shall review and approve a site plan, stamped by a
registered professional engineer, architect, or landscape architect at a
professionally acceptable scale suitable to the size of the project, on
standard 24" x 36" sheets. Two copies of the site plan shall ordinarily be
submitted; however, the Zoning Administrator may require additional copies
where special review is warranted. The site plan shall contain the following
items:
   (a)   Name of the project, address, boundaries, date, north arrow, and scale
of the plan.
   (b)   Name and address of the owner of record, developer, and seal of the
engineer, architect or landscape architect.
   (c)   Name of all owners of record of adjoining property.
   (d)   All existing lot lines, easements, building setback lines and right-
of-way, with area in acres or square feet, and buildings on adjoining
properties indicated.
   (e)   The location and use of all existing and proposed buildings and
structures within the development site, including fencing, with all dimensions
of height and floor area, the number of living units (if any), exterior
entrances and all anticipated future additions and alterations depicted.
   (f)   The location of all present and proposed public and private ways,
including parking and loading areas, driveways, fire lanes, sidewalks, ramps
and curbs. Parking areas should depict the configuration of stalls and aisles.
   (g)   The Zoning Administrator may require location, height, and intensity
of all exterior lighting fixtures. The direction of illumination and methods to
eliminate glare onto adjoining properties may also be required.
   (h)   The location, height, size, and type of major signage.
   (i)   The landscaping plan showing all existing open space trees and water
features, and all proposed changes to these features, including size and type
of plant material, retaining walls, etc.
   (j)   The locations, dimensions and materials of all existing and proposed
water (including hydrants) and sanitary sewage systems, and the location and
dimensions of all other public service connections, including gas lines, power
lines and telecommunications lines, indicating whether overhead or underground.
   (k)   The storm drainage system, including existing and proposed drain
lines, culverts, catch basins, headwalls, endwalls, manholes and drainage
swales. Stormwater management plans in accordance with the Stormwater
Management provisions of this Zoning Ordinance shall be presented, where
required.
   (l)   Existing and proposed topography shown at not more than two-foot
contour intervals. Indicate the reference datum. If any portion of the site is
within the 100-year flood plain, the area shall be shown, with base flood
elevations, and the developer shall present plans for meeting applicable
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) requirements. The areas subject to
inundation by a 100-year flood assuming full development of the catchment
basin, shall be included in a protection easement, with calculated flood
elevations depicted at periodic intervals. Such easement may be released upon
approval of the city where fill has been placed to a level higher than the
calculated 100-year flood elevation.
   (m)   Zoning district boundaries adjacent to the site's perimeter shall be
drawn and identified on the plan.
   (n)   Traffic flow patterns within the site, entrances and exits, and curb
cuts on the site and within 100 feet of the site.
   (o)   The location of trash storage facilities.
   (p)   A Mail Delivery Plan approved by the U.S. Postal Service specifying
the type of mailboxes to be employed for the development (individual curbside
boxes, cluster boxes, post office boxes, etc.), the party or parties
responsible for purchasing, installing and maintaining the mailboxes, and the
timing of the mailbox installation, with depiction of the mailbox location(s).
   (q)   Certification(s) by officials representing other governments, or by
private parties having authority or rights with respect to aspects of the
proposed development, such as street and road access.
   (r)   Other features, which may be required by the Zoning Administrator to
properly evaluate compliance with the Zoning Ordinance.
   (s)   Certification that the owner has reviewed the site plan and will
comply with all specifications, changes, and amendments herein, and
acknowledging that the site plan instrument creates a legally enforceable
obligation to build and develop in accordance with all final agreements.
§ 17-3004 REVIEW STANDARDS.
   The review of the Zoning Administrator shall be based on the following
standards and requirements:
   (a)   Conformity with the applicable requirements of the Zoning Ordinance,
e.g., setbacks, height and intensity, parking and loading, landscaping,
stormwater management, signage, etc. Such review shall be in addition to site
plan review required to determine conformity with other city codes, e.g., the
International Building Code, International Fire Code, etc. performed by other
city officials.
   (b)   Consistency with the objectives of the City of Wamego Comprehensive
Plan.
   (c)   Promotion of safe and easy ingress, egress and internal traffic
circulation.
   (d)   Promotion of appropriate utility improvements (water, sewer, electric,
etc.) and connections with the existing system. In the case of development
where high utility demand is proposed, this standard shall also include
preventing the over taxing of the utility system(s). Utility demand projections
may be required by the Zoning Administrator. A health permit approved by the
Pottawatomie County Sanitarian shall be required where a private well and/or
sewage disposal system is/are proposed, and the county requirements for such
private utilities shall be adhered to.
   (e)   Preservation of environmental features where practical, e.g., trees,
soils, wetlands, etc.
   (f)   Compatibility with adjoining land uses, including provision of
adequate protection for neighboring properties against fire, noise, explosion,
glare, odor, hazardous waste, or other objectionable features or nuisances.
   (g)   Provision of sidewalks along public streets, as follows:
      (1)   Arterial streets required along both sides of the street.
      (2)   Collector and local streets - required along one side of the
street.
      (3)   Cul-de-sacs - sidewalks are not required along the turnaround
portion of a cul-de-sac; however, they are required along one side of the cul-
de-sac drive (if any). Sidewalks must ramp to street grade at the end point
either at a driveway or by a special sidewalk ramp.
      (4)   All public and private sidewalks shall comply with the applicable
provisions of the American National Standards Institute Specifications for
making buildings and facilities accessible to and usable by the physically
handicapped, as required by K.S.A. 58-1301.
   (h)   Protection against flood hazards. The 100-year flood elevation, using
coefficients assuming complete development of the catchment area, shall be the
basis for establishing flood protection easements as determined by application
of the design criteria contained under Section 4 of the 2008 Wamego Stormwater
Master Plan, prepared by Wilson & Co.
   (i)   Provisions of efficient mail delivery and maintenance of mail
facilities.
   (j)   Approvals by other governments or private parties having authority or
rights with respects to aspects of the development proposal, such as street and
road access.
§ 17-3005 APPROVAL.
   The Zoning Administrator shall certify approval of the site plan upon
presentation of an original or amended site plan meeting all of the review
standards and requirements listed under §
17-3004 above, and shall approve the associated building permit(s), indicating
compliance with provisions of the Zoning Ordinance. Such approval shall not
supersede requirements for approvals from the Building Official, Fire Chief or
other city officials with respect to compliance with other city codes.
§ 17-3006 ASSURANCE OF PERFORMANCE.
   The Governing Body may require a site plan performance agreement to
guarantee compliance and completion of the site plan components, including
landscaping and paving, as depicted in the approved site plan. In addition to a
site plan performance agreement, the Governing Body may require alternate forms
of performance assurance such as: a performance bond, escrow bond, or some
other form of surety acceptable to the city. Alternative forms of performance
assurance may be required if the site plan is to be developed in phases
allowing temporary occupancy of a portion of the site, or if the Governing Body
determines that other aspects of the site plan require alternate performance
assurance. In general, no temporary occupancy of industrial, commercial, office
or residential property shall take place before all of the conditions of the
site plan and other provisions of the chapter have been satisfied, unless some
form of financial assurance is provided.
§ 17-3007 PROJECT COMPLETION/RELEASE OF PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   At the completion of the project, the Zoning Administrator shall conduct a
final inspection to determine completion of all site plan requirements. If the
project is not in compliance with the approved site plan, the Zoning
Administrator shall provide the owner with a written report as to what remedial
actions are necessary to bring the project into compliance, and shall not
certify the Certificate of Occupancy until such actions have been completed,
unless subsequent completion has been set forth in a site plan performance
agreement. Upon full compliance with the terms of a site plan performance
agreement required by the Governing Body, the Zoning Administrator shall
recommend that the Governing Body release any required performance guarantee.
§ 17-3008 MINOR SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   Where a single-family or two-family residence is proposed on a tract, or
where a non-residential primary building is proposed, having a floor area of
under 2,500 square feet, a minor site plan shall be submitted and approved by
the Zoning Administrator prior to approval of a building permit, or a zoning
review permit in the case of property located within the City of Wamego
Extraterritorial Zoning Jurisdiction. Preparation by a design professional is
not required. Such minor site plan shall contain the following features:
   (a)   Name and address of the property owner.
   (b)   North arrow and scale of the plan.
   (c)   All existing lot lines, easements, buildings setback lines and rights-
of-way. Include tract area in acres or square feet.
   (d)   The location and use of all existing and proposed structures on the
site. Include floor area dimensions, floor elevation with respect to a
reference point or datum and show all exterior entrances for personnel and
vehicles.
   (e)   Driveways, and exterior parking areas, with existing and required
public sidewalks adjoining the tract depicted.
   (f)   The approximate location of public utility lines and proposed
connection points. Indicate if overhead or underground. Where private wells
and/or sewage disposal is proposed, indicate the location of significant
features. If located outside the Wamego City limits, a heal permit approved by
the Pottawatomie County Sanitarian shall be required, and county regulations
shall be adhered to, and if located within the city limits and allowable with
respect to other city codes, a letter from the Sanitarian certifying the
appropriateness of the proposed private well and/or sewage disposal shall be
required.
   (g)   The direction of existing and proposed storm drainage from the site.
   (h)   If the property is located in a FEMA designated flood hazard area, the
area and the base flood elevation. Also provide the elevation of the lowest
floor in the building.
   (i)   Other features where required by the Zoning Ordinance, such as
screening fences and landscaping.
   (j)   Additional features required by the Zoning Administrator to properly
evaluate the proposed development for special circumstances.
§ 17-3009 SITE PLAN AMENDMENTS.
   Whenever amendments to the site development are proposed following issuance
of the building permit or zoning review permit, a new site plan, prepared by a
registered design professional and certified by the owner, shall be submitted
and reviewed by the Zoning Administrator. Such amended site plan, approved by
the Zoning Administrator with respect to compliance with these provisions,
shall serve as the new basis for review of the project upon completion.
§ 17-3010 APPEALS.
   Appeals from the decision of the Zoning Administrator with respect to
application of the provisions of this Article, shall be heard by the Wamego
Board of Zoning Appeals pursuant to the variance procedures and review criteria
of the Zoning Ordinance.
§ 17-3011 ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATION AND PENALTY.
   (a)   Site plan approval shall lapse six months following issuance of the
associated building or zoning review permit if construction has not commenced,
and shall also lapse if construction has stalled for a period of six months.
Approval of a new site plan in accordance with this Article and issuance of a
new permit shall be required in order to commence or to continue construction.
   (b)   If, within one year after a temporary or permanent certificate of
occupancy has been issued with respect to the building associated with an
approved site plan, the Zoning Administrator finds that any of the site plan
requirements are not in place, or if the terms of a site plan performance
agreement have otherwise not been met within the timeframe set forth therein,
he or she shall notify the owner in writing as to the action(s) necessary to
bring the project into compliance with the approved site plan or agreement.
Failure to address the deficiencies noted within a reasonable time period
granted by the Administrator shall authorize the city to pursue enforcement
action against a zoning violation, pursuant to the provisions of §
17-3204 of the Zoning Ordinance.
ARTICLE 31: NON-CONFORMING USES
Section
   
17-3101   Nonconforming uses which may be continued
   
17-3102   Nonconforming uses which may not be continued
§ 17-3101 NONCONFORMING USES WHICH MAY BE CONTINUED.
   (a)   The following lawful nonconforming uses of land may be continued:
      (1)   A use of land which existed prior to the effective date of this
Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   A use of land existing at the time of the annexation.
      (3)   A use of land existing at the time an amendment is made to the
Zoning Ordinance which changes such land to a more restricted district or
extends the jurisdiction of the Zoning Ordinance to the land use.
   (b)   The lawful use of a building located upon any land, except as provided
in §
17-3102 below, may be continued although such use does not conform with the
provisions of this Zoning Ordinance, and such use may be continued throughout
the building if no structural alterations are made therein, except those
required by law or ordinance. If no structural alterations are made in such
building, a nonconforming use of the building may be changed to another
nonconforming use of the same or more restricted use classification. The
foregoing provisions shall also apply to any uses of buildings which may be
made nonconforming by any subsequent amendment or change of this Zoning
Ordinance.
§ 17-3102 NONCONFORMING USES WHICH MAY NOT BE CONTINUED.
   (a)   Whenever a nonconforming use of a building has been changed to a more
conforming use, such use shall not thereafter be changed to a less conforming
use.
   (b)   A nonconforming building which has been damaged or changed to the
extent of more than 50% of its fair market value by fire, explosion, act of
God, or any other cause shall not be restored, except in accordance with all
zoning regulations of the zoning district. In the event a question may arise on
the fair market value of such a building, the same shall be determined by three
appraisers: one shall be selected by the Governing Body, one shall be selected
by the owner of the building, and the third appraiser shall be selected by the
two selected appraisers. If the first two appraisers selected cannot agree on
the selection of the third such appraiser, the Judge of the appropriate court
shall be requested to appoint the third appraiser. The decision of the
appraisers, or a majority of them, shall be final and conclusive and shall be
binding upon all concerned to the purpose of determining whether the damaged
property may be restored. The cost of such appraisal shall be paid by the
property owner.
ARTICLE 32: ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATION AND PENALTY
Section
   
17-3201   Enforcement
   
17-3202   Certificate of occupancy
   
17-3203   Plats
   
17-3204   Violation and penalty
§ 17-3201 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Zoning Administrator shall administer and enforce this Zoning Ordinance.
Appeals from the decision of the Zoning Administrator may be made to the Board
of Zoning Appeals.
§ 17-3202 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (a)   Subsequent to the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance, no change
in the use or occupancy of land nor any change in the use or occupancy of an
existing building shall be made, nor shall any new building be occupied, until
a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the City Building Inspector. The
certificate of occupancy shall state that the land and/or building complies
with the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance.
   (b)   No excavation, erection, or alteration of any building shall be
permitted before an application has been made and approved for a building
permit, and no building or premises shall be occupied until a certificate of
occupancy is issued.
   (c)   A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in the
office of the Zoning Administrator. Copies shall be furnished for $2 on request
by any person having an interest in the land or building affected.
§ 17-3203 PLATS.
    Notwithstanding the site plan requirements of Article 30 of this Title,
each application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a plan in
duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be built
upon, the size, shape, and location of the building to be erected, and such
other information as may be necessary to provide for the enforcement of this
Zoning Ordinance. For applications outside the corporate limits of the City of
Wamego, the Zoning Administrator shall, in addition, require submission of the
Pottawatomie County Health Permit if water or sanitary facilities are proposed.
The Zoning Administrator shall submit permits for buildings outside the
corporate limits of the City of Wamego to the Pottawatomie County Zoning
Administrator upon certification, together with the Health Permit, if required,
plans, and accompanying information. A record of applications and plats shall
be kept in the office of the City Building Inspector.
§ 17-3204 VIOLATION AND PENALTY.
   (a)   The owner or agent of a building or premises in or upon which a
violation of any provision of this Title has been committed or shall exist; or
the lessee or tenant of an entire building or entire premises in or upon which
a violation has been committed or shall exist; or the agent, architect,
building contractor, or any other person who commits, takes part or assists in
any violation, or who maintains any building or premises in or upon which a
violation has been committed or shall exist, shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed $500, or by imprisonment for not more than six months for each offense,
or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each and every day that such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (b)   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building,
structure, or land is used in violation of this Zoning Ordinance, the
appropriate authorities of said area, in addition to other remedies, may
institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceedings to
prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration,
conversion, maintenance or use, or to correct or abate such violation or to
prevent the occupancy of said building, structure, or land.
ARTICLE 33: BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
Section
   
17-3301   Board of Zoning Appeals established
   
17-3302   Election of officers
   
17-3303   Rules of procedure
   
17-3304   Meetings
   
17-3305   Records
   
17-3306   Filing fee
   
17-3307   Public hearing and notice
   
17-3308   Powers and jurisdictions
   
17-3309   Procedure
   
17-3310   Variances to this Zoning Ordinance
   
17-3311   Automatic setback variance
   
17-3312   Exceptions to this Zoning Ordinance
   
17-3313   Performance and review
§ 17-3301 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS ESTABLISHED.
   A Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby established. Such Board shall consist of
not less than three nor more than seven members who shall be appointed by the
Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Governing Body. All members of the
Board so appointed shall be residents of the city except one, which shall be a
resident of the zoning jurisdiction outside the city's limits. One member of
the Board shall be a member of the Planning Commission. The members first
appointed shall serve respectively for terms of one, two and three years,
divided equally or as nearly equal as possible, among the members. Thereafter,
members shall be appointed for terms of three years each. Vacancies shall be
filled by appointment for the unexpired term. All members of said Board shall
serve without compensation.
§ 17-3302 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   The Board shall annually elect one of its members as chairman and shall
appoint a secretary who may be an officer or an employee of the city.
§ 17-3303 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The Board shall adopt bylaws and rules of procedure for the conduct of
business.
§ 17-3304 MEETINGS.
   Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such
other times as the Board may determine.
§ 17-3305 RECORDS.
   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing evidence presented,
findings of fact by the Board, decisions of the Board, and voting upon each
question. Records of all official actions of the Board shall be filed in its
office and shall be a public record.
§ 17-3306 FILING FEE.
   (a)   For the purpose of wholly or partially defraying the cost of the
proceedings contained herein, including publication costs, the applicant, upon
filing an appeal, shall pay to the City Clerk all amount corresponding to a fee
schedule adopted and maintained by the Governing Body.
   (b)   Promptly upon filing the appeal and required filing fee, the City
Clerk shall refer said appeal to the Secretary of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
§ 17-3307 PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for hearing of an
appeal or other matter referred to it. Notice of the time, place, and subject
of such hearing shall be published once in the official newspaper at least 20
days prior to the date fixed for hearing. A copy of said notice shall be mailed
to each party to the appeal and to the Planning Commission. In addition, where
an appeal is in regard to a specific property, a notice of such hearing shall
be posted in a conspicuous manner on the subject property at least 20 days
prior to the hearing.
§ 17-3308 POWERS AND JURISDICTIONS.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall administer the details of appeals or other
matters referred to it regarding the application of the Zoning Ordinance. The
Board shall have the following specific powers:
   (a)   To hear and decide on appeals where it is alleged that there is error
in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official in the enforcement of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (b)   To interpret the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance in such a way as
to carry out the intent and purposes of the adopted comprehensive plan, and to
correct the several districts accompanying and made a part of this Title where
the actual street layout varies from the street layout, as shown on the zoning
district map.
   (c)   To authorize, in specific cases, a variance from the specific terms of
the regulations which will not be contrary to the public interest and where,
due to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the
regulations, in an individual case, results in unnecessary hardship, and
provided that the spirit of the regulations shall be observed, public safety
and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Such variance shall not
permit any use not permitted by the zoning regulations in such district. The
Board must find that the granting of such variance will not merely serve as a
convenience to the applicant, but will alleviate some demonstrable or unusual
hardship or difficulty.
   (d)   To grant exceptions to the provisions of the zoning regulations in
those instances where the Board is specifically authorized to grant such
exceptions and only under the terms of the zoning regulations. In no event
shall exceptions to the provisions of the zoning regulation be granted where
the use or exception contemplated is not specifically listed as an exception in
the zoning regulations. Further, under no conditions shall the Board of Zoning
Appeals have the power to grant an exception when conditions of this exception,
as established in the zoning regulations by the Governing Body, are not found
to be present.
§ 17-3309 PROCEDURE.
   (a)   Appeals to the Board of Zoning Appeals may be taken by any person
aggrieved, or by any officer of the city or county, or any governmental agency
or body affected by any decision of the official administering the provisions
of this Zoning Ordinance.
   (b)   Appeals shall be taken within a reasonable time, as provided by the
rules of the Board, by filing a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof
and payment of the required filing fee.
   (c)   Appeals and requests to the Board for variances and exceptions to this
Zoning Ordinance shall be prepared and submitted on forms approved and
furnished by the Secretary of the Board.
   (d)   After filing the required appeal or request and payment of the
required fee, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall advertise and hold a public
hearing as provided in §
17-3307 above.
   (e)   Notice of the decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be in
writing and transmitted to the appellant. A copy of such decision shall also be
transmitted to the City Building Inspector for filing and action, if action is
required.
   (f)   Any person, official or governing agency dissatisfied with any order
or determination of said Board may bring an action in the District Court of the
county, to determine the reasonableness of any such order or determination.
§ 17-3310 VARIANCES TO THIS ZONING ORDINANCE.
   (a)   The Board may authorize, in specific cases, a variance from the
specific terms of this Zoning Ordinance which will not be contrary to the
public interest and where, because of special conditions, a literal enforcement
of the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance will, in an individual case, result
in unnecessary hardship, providing that the spirit of the Zoning Ordinance is
observed, public safety and welfare are secured, and substantial justice is
done. Such variance shall not allow any use not permitted by this Zoning
Ordinance, and shall be in conformance with the City of Wamego Comprehensive
Plan.
   All of the following requirements shall be met before the Board may grant a
variance:
      (1)   The applicant must show that his property was acquired in good
faith.
      (2)   The request for a variance must arise from a condition which is
unique to the property in question, is not ordinarily found in the same zone or
district, and is not created by an action or actions of the property owner or
applicant.
      (3)   The granting of a variance shall not adversely affect the rights of
adjacent property owners or residents.
      (4)   The strict application of this Zoning Ordinance will cause
unnecessary hardship upon the property owner represented in the application.
      (5)   The granting of a variance shall not adversely affect the public
health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, or general welfare.
      (6)   The granting of a variance must not violate the spirit and intent
of this Zoning Ordinance.
   (b)   Variances from yard regulations may not be more than one-half the
required yard and shall not encroach upon the required setback for adjacent
buildings.
   (c)   In exercising the above powers, the Board may reverse or affirm wholly
or partly, or may modify, the order, requirement, decision, or determination
appealed from the City Building Inspector. The Board may make such order,
requirement, decision, or determination as ought to be made, and to that end
shall have the same powers as the City Building Inspector from whom the appeal
is taken. If the Board approved the variance, they shall notify the City
Building Inspector of their decision and shall instruct him to issue a permit.
A time limit may be specified as a condition for granting the appeal.
   (d)   Every variation granted or denied by the Board shall be accompanied by
the written finding of fact, based on testimony and evidence, and specifying
the reason for granting or denying the variance, a copy of which shall be filed
in the office of the City Clerk to be available for public inspection.
§ 17-3311 AUTOMATIC SETBACK VARIANCE.
   Any existing building or structure erected prior to the adoption date of
this Title which does not conform to the applicable yard regulations of this
Zoning Ordinance, may continue without need of a variance authorized by the
Board of Zoning Appeals, provided that the building or structure does not
encroach upon any public right-of-way or public utility easement.
   (a)   Additions to said non-conforming buildings on lots with an area of not
more than 7,500 square feet, which are erected in accordance with §
17-1007(a)(4), §
17-1107(a)(4), or §
17-1207(a)(4); §
17-707(a)(3); §
17-1007(b)(3), §
17-1107(b)(3) or §
17-1207(b)(3), shall also be permitted to continue.
   (b)   Buildings which do not conform to the applicable yard regulations of
this Zoning Ordinance are subject to the provisions of §
17-3102(b).
§ 17-3312 EXCEPTIONS TO THIS ZONING ORDINANCE.
   (a)   Exceptions to this Zoning Ordinance, as authorized by the district
regulations, shall be made by special use permit after the request has been
duly advertised and a public hearing held as required by law. Home occupation
special use permits shall be subject to the requirements of §
17-2902, as well as division (e) below. All other special use permits shall be
subject to the following requirements.
   (b)   Prior to review of the request of an exception by the Board of Zoning
Appeals, the applicant shall:
      (1)   File an application on forms provided.
      (2)   File with the application a statement certifying that the applicant
is the lawful owner of the real estate upon which the excepted use is proposed
or that he has the lawful right to receive a conveyance thereof if the
application is granted.
      (3)   File a form of declaration of restrictions indicating the use which
is to be made by the legal owner if the application is granted. Said
restrictions must show that use of the land will be solely that which was
applied for as an excepted use. The restriction must provide that, if such use
is abandoned or is proposed to be changed, the subsequent use shall be in
conformity with the zoning restrictions in effect as to the land prior to
authorization of the exception, unless a new application for an excepted use is
made and granted.
   (c)   A plot plan shall be filed with the application showing:
      (1)   Legal dimension of the tract to be used.
      (2)   Location of all proposed improvements including curb cut access,
off street parking, and other such facilities as the applicant proposes to
install.
      (3)   Grade elevations.
      (4)   Building setback from all property lines.
      (5)   Front, side, and rear elevations of all improvements to be erected.
      (6)   Perspective drawings of the proposed improvements, in such detail
as will clearly show the finished appearance of the improvements proposed.
      (7)   Location and type of planting, screening, or walls.
      (8)   Such other items as the Board shall deem reasonably necessary to
process the application properly.
   (d)   In addition to publishing the notice of public hearing to consider the
special use permit application, as required under § 17-3307, the city shall
mail said notice to all owners of property within the city boundary located
within 200 feet of the premises whereon the special use is to be conducted, and
if said premises is located outside or adjacent to the city boundary, owners of
property outside the city boundary located within 1,000 feet of said premises.
   (e)   In considering any application for an exception hereunder, the Board
of Zoning Appeals shall give consideration to the Comprehensive Plan, and the
health, safety, morals, comfort, and general welfare of the public, including,
but not limited to, the following factors:
      (1)   The stability and integrity of the various zoning district.
      (2)   Conservation of property values.
      (3)   Protecting against fire and casualties.
      (4)   Observation of general police regulations.
      (5)   Prevention of traffic congestion.
      (6)   Promotion of traffic safety and the orderly parking of motor
vehicles.
      (7)   Promotion of the safety of individuals and property.
      (8)   Provision for adequate light and air.
      (9)   Prevention of overcrowding and excessive intensity of land uses.
      (10)   Provision for public utilities and schools.
      (11)   Invasion by inappropriate uses.
      (12)   Value, type, and character of existing or authorized improvements
and land uses.
      (13)   Encouragement of improvements and land uses in keeping with
overall planning.
      (14)   Provision for orderly and proper urban renewal, development, and
growth.
   (f)   Exceptions may be granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals only where
special use permits are specifically authorized by the district regulations.
§ 17-3313 PERFORMANCE AND REVIEW.
   (a)   In making any decision varying or modifying any provisions of this
Zoning Ordinance or in granting an exception to the district regulations, the
Board of Zoning Appeals shall impose such restrictions, terms, time
limitations, landscaping, improvement of off-street parking lots, and other
appropriate safeguards as required to protect adjoining property.
   (b)   In lieu of actual construction of an approved off-street parking log,
the Board of Zoning Appeals may accept, in the name of the city, a corporate
surety bond, cashier's check, escrow account, or other like security in an
amount to be fixed by the city and conditioned upon actual completion of such
improvement within a specified time, and the Governing Body may enforce such
bond by all equitable means. Bonds or other security shall be filed with the
City Clerk.
   (c)   Review of a Special Use Permit for an exceptional use shall be
considered by the City of Wamego, Board of Zoning Appeals, with regard to
revoking the permit if a review petition stating problems with regards to
exceptional use has been submitted and signed by 50% of all owners of property
within the city boundary located within 200 feet of the premises whereon the
exceptional use is conducted, and if said premises is located outside or
adjacent to the City Boundary, owners of property outside the city boundary
located within 1,000 feet of said premises.
ARTICLE 34: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
Section
   
17-3401   Conditional use procedure
   
17-3402   Review conditions
   
17-3403   Damage
§ 17-3401 CONDITIONAL USE PROCEDURE.
   The city may process applications for a Conditional Use Permit, wherein the
yard requirements of this Zoning Ordinance may be relaxed to provide for
building and site improvements for special needs accommodations, subject to the
conditions established under §
17-3402 below.
   (a)   Any land owner or his legally authorized agent desiring a Conditional
Use Permit, shall file with the City Clerk an application upon forms provided,
and such application shall be accompanied by a conceptual drawing of the
proposed improvement and such other data and information as may be prescribed
by the Planning Commission. At the time of filing said application with the
City Clerk the applicant shall pay to the City Clerk an amount corresponding to
a fee schedule adopted and maintained by the Governing Body.
   (b)   After filing the required application, and payment of the required
fee, the City Clerk shall advertise and a public hearing shall be conducted, in
the same manner as prescribed under §
17-3504 relative to amendments to this Zoning Ordinance.
§ 17-3402 REVIEW CONDITIONS.
   All of the following conditions must be satisfied before the Planning
Commission may recommend that the Governing Body approve such application for a
Conditional Use Permit:
   (a)   The applicant must show that his property was acquired in good faith.
   (b)   The subject improvements must be necessary to provide access
accommodations for a person or persons with a verified long-term medical
condition, and not to provide additional living space. Accommodations must be
of a nature prescribed by and in accordance with the most recent edition of the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Accessibility Guidelines for Buildings
and Facilities, published by the U.S. Architectural and Transportation Barriers
Compliance Board.
   (c)   The lot upon which the subject improvements are proposed must have
substandard dimensions.
   (d)   The application must request relaxation of a front, side or rear yard
setback, and not request relaxation of any other type of zoning provision,
e.g., land use, lot coverage, parking, signage, etc.
   (e)   The encroachment of the subject improvement into the required yard
setback area must exceed one half the setback requirement, i.e., the maximum
setback the Board of Zoning Appeals may grant by approving a variance request.
   (f)   The granting of a Conditional Use Permit shall not adversely affect
the rights of adjacent property owners or residents.
§ 17-3403 DAMAGE.
   The subject improvement may persist after it is no longer required by the
original beneficiary or beneficiaries of the Conditional Use Permit, and the
property containing the subject improvement may thereafter be conveyed to
another party, however, at such time as such improvement is damaged or removed
to 50% or more of its value prior to such damage or removal, it shall not be
replaced without reapplication and approval.
ARTICLE 35: AMENDMENTS
Section
   
17-3501   Amendments
   
17-3502   Applications
   
17-3503   Filing fee
   
17-3504   Public hearing and notice
   
17-3505   Zoning classifications of lesser change
   
17-3506   Protest
§ 17-3501 AMENDMENTS.
   The Governing Body may, from time-to-time, amend, supplement, or change the
district boundaries or regulations contained in this Zoning Ordinance. A
proposal for an amendment or a change in zoning may be initiated by the
Governing Body or by the Planning Commission or upon application of the owner
of the property affected. All such proposed changes shall first be submitted to
the Planning Commission for Public Hearing, recommendation and report. The
Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing thereon and shall cause an
accurate, written summary to be made of the proceedings. In reviewing
applications for rezoning of property or amending the text of this Zoning
Ordinance, the Planning Commission shall determine whether the application
advances the objectives of the City of Wamego Comprehensive Community Plan, and
in the case of rezoning, the intent and character of the proposed zoning
district and the adjoining zoning districts.
§ 17-3502 APPLICATIONS.
   (a)   (1)   Any land owner or his legally authorized agent desiring any
change in zoning district boundaries or regulations contained in this Zoning
Ordinance, as to any lot, tract, or area of land, shall file with the City
Clerk an application upon forms provided, and such application shall be
accompanied by such data and information as may be prescribed by the Planning
Commission. At the time of filing said application with the City Clerk, the
applicant shall provide the City Clerk with the names and addresses of all
owners of any land within the city's boundary located within 200 feet of the
outer limits of said area to which the applicant desires change of zoning.
      (2)   Where the proposed zoning amendment will include property located
adjacent to or outside the city's limits, the applicant shall provide the City
Clerk with the names and addresses of all owners of any land located within
1,000 feet in the unincorporated area.
   (b)   (1)   An applicant for a change in zone to "PUD" Community Unit Plan
District, "M-P" Manufactured Home Park District, "C-S" Highway Service, or "I-
P" Industrial Park District must satisfy the Planning Commission that he has
the ability to carry out the proposed plan and shall prepare and submit a
schedule for construction. The proposed construction shall begin within a
period of 18 months following approval by the Governing Body, and 40% of the
total planned construction shall be completed within a period of three years
following such approval.
      (2)   Such applicant shall also prepare and submit a preliminary
development plan for review and approval by the Planning Commission. Applicants
for the "PUD" or "M-P" zones shall submit a plan prepared in accordance with
the requirements of the individual district regulations. Applicants for either
the "C-S" or "I-P" zones shall submit a plan which shall include the following:
         (A)   A topographic map showing contours at intervals of two feet.
         (B)   A plot plan showing:
            (i)   Building locations on the tract to conform with the yard
requirements of the district.
            (ii)   Access from streets.
            (iii)   Location and number of off-street parking spaces.
            (iv)   Interior drives and service areas.
            (v)   Landscaped buffer strips and walls or fences.
         (C)   Location map showing the development and zoning of the adjacent
property within 200 feet, including the location and the type of buildings and
structures thereon.
         (D)   The full legal description of the boundaries of the properties
to be included in the area to be rezoned.
         (E)   A map showing the general arrangement of streets within an area
of 1,000 feet from the boundaries of the area to be zoned.
         (F)   A map showing location of sewer, water, and other proposed
utility service.
         (G)   A description of the general character of proposed buildings.
      (3)   Upon approval of the zoning application and preliminary development
plan by the Planning Commission, the applicant shall prepare and submit a final
development plan and the Planning Commission recommendation shall be forwarded
to the Governing Body for their review and final action.
      (4)   In the event that, within 18 months following approval by the
Governing Body of an "R-P", "M-P", or "C-S" District, the applicant does not
proceed with construction substantially in accordance with the plan so
approved, the Planning Commission shall initiate action to rezone the property.
A public hearing, as required by law, shall be advertised and held, at which
time the applicant shall be given an opportunity to show why construction has
been delayed. Following the hearing, the Planning Commission shall make
findings of fact and shall submit their recommendation to the Governing Body
for official action.
   (c)   For re-zonings outside the corporate limits of the City of Wamego, for
which private water and/or sewer systems are proposed, a report from the
Pottawatomie County Sanitarian is required regarding compliance of the rezoning
proposal with the Pottawatomie County Sanitary Regulations.
§ 17-3503 FILING FEE.
   For the purpose of wholly or partially defraying the costs of the
proceedings prescribed herein, including publication costs, the applicant, upon
the filing of the application, shall pay to the City Clerk an amount
corresponding to a schedule of fees adopted and maintained by the Governing
Body.
§ 17-3504 PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE.
   Before the Planning Commission shall, by proper action, formulate its
recommendation to the Governing Body on any such proposed or requested change
of zoning district boundary or regulations, whether initiated by the Governing
Body or Planning Commission or by others, the Planning Commission shall hold a
public hearing on such proposal. The secretary of the Planning Commission shall
cause a notice of public hearing to be published once in the official newspaper
and at least 20 days shall elapse between the date of such publication and the
date set for the hearing. Such notice shall fix the time and place for such
hearing and shall contain a statement regarding the proposed changes in the
regulations or restrictions or in the boundary of any district, and if such
proposed amendment will affect specific property, the legal description and
general street address shall be given; provided that, in addition to such
publication notice, at least 20 days before the hearing written notice of such
proposed change shall be mailed to all the owners of land within the city
boundary located within 200 feet of the area proposed to be altered, except
that where the change will include property located adjacent to or outside the
city's limits, the written notice shall also be mailed to all owners of land
outside the city's boundary located within 1,000 feet of the area proposed to
be altered. Failure to receive such notice shall not invalidate any subsequent
action taken when the notice has been properly addressed and deposited in the
mail. In addition, where such proposed change is in regard to a specific
property, a notice of such hearing shall be posted in a conspicuous manner on
the subject property at least 20 days prior to the hearing.
§ 17-3505 ZONING CLASSIFICATIONS OF LESSER CHANGE.
   In accordance with the provisions of K.S.A. 12-757, the Planning Commission
and the Governing Body may recommend and approve a lesser change in zoning
districts without re-publication of a notice or re-distribution of notices to
property owners when such change is more restrictive than the district which is
applied for as shown on the table below; provided, however, that such
recommendation and approval shall not be for a lesser classification than the
existing zoning district. If the applicant at the Governing Body meeting, at
which a zoning amendment is being considered, desires to amend the application
and/or the Governing Body desires to consider a "lesser" zoning change, then
such a proposed change shall be returned to the Planning Commission for
reconsideration and further recommendation to the Governing Body without
further publication or notice.
   For the purposes of this section, zoning classifications of lesser change
shall be as shown below, based on descending order of use restriction:
   (a)   Most restrictive.
      (1)   "A-L" Agriculture District.
      (2)   "R-L" Residential Low-Density District.
      (3)   "R-M" Residential Medium Density District.
      (4)   "R-H" Historic Townsite Residential District.
      (5)   "R-1" Single-Family Dwelling District.
      (6)   "R-2" Two-Family Dwelling District.
      (7)   "R-3" Multiple-Family Dwelling District.
      (8)   "C-S" Highway Service District.
      (9)   "C-2" General Commercial District;
      (10)   "I-1"Light Industrial District.
      (11)   "I-2"Heavy Industrial District.
   (b)   Least restrictive. Because of the highly specialized purposes of the
"F-P" Floodplain; "PUD" Planned Unit Development; "M-H" Manufactured Home; "M-
P" Manufactured Home Park; "P-I” Public and Institutional; "C-1" Retail
Business; "C-3" Adult Entertainment and "I-P" Industrial Park Districts, they
are not included in the table of lesser zoning changes, and are excluded from
designation through the lesser change provisions.
§ 17-3506 PROTEST.
   If a protest against such amendment is filed in the office of the City Clerk
within 14 days after the date of the conclusion of the public hearing pursuant
to said publication notice, said protest being duly signed and acknowledged by
the owners of 20% or more of any real property proposed to be rezoned or by the
owners of 20% of the area, excepting public streets and ways located within the
corporate limits of the city and located within 200 feet of the boundaries of
the property proposed to be rezoned, or within 1,000 feet in the unincorporated
area if the property to be rezoned is located adjacent to or outside the city's
limits, such amendment shall not be passed except by at least three-fourths
vote of the members of the Governing Body.
ARTICLE 36: VALIDITY
Section
   
17-3601   Severability
§ 17-3601 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Title is for
any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portion of this Title.
ARTICLE 37: CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL
Section
   
17-3701   Generally
§ 17-3701 GENERALLY.
   (a)   Zoning Ordinance No. 1567 and all amendments thereto are hereby
repealed.
   (b)   It is hereby certified that this Title and the Zoning District map
referred to in this Title were duly approved by the Planning Commission on
September 19, 2016.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   CHARTER ORDINANCES
      
II.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: CHARTER ORDINANCES
Editor’s note:
   The Charter ordinances included herein are for information only. Complete
copies of each Charter ordinance as adopted are on file in the office of the
City Clerk and with the Kansas Secretary of State.
Charter Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Charter Date
Ord.    Passed Description
No.
               A Charter ordinance exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from the provisions
1       10-16- of K.S.A. 14-807, 14-819 and 14-820, relating to the powers and duties of the
        1962   City Marshal and police officers, and providing substitute and additional
               provisions on the same subject.
               A Charter ordinance exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from K.S.A. 14-
2       1-21-  1204: providing substitute and additional provisions on the same subject,
        1969   relating to the election of the Mayor and Commissioners, their terms of
               office and the presiding officer.
               A Charter ordinance exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from K.S.A. 79-
3       - -    1952; providing substitute and additional provisions on the same subject; and
               removing certain limitations of tax levy. (Passed by the governing body, the
               January 21, 1969. Rejected by popular vote.)
               A Charter ordinance exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from K.S.A. 14-
        7-18-  1201, 14-1204, 14-1208, 12-1005(c) and 12-1006, and providing substitute and
3       1972   additional provisions on the same subjects, providing for the election of
               five Commissioners, tie votes, their terms of office, qualifying, failure to
               comply or accept office, filling vacancies and certificates of election.
               A Charter ordinance exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from the provisions
               of K.S.A. 12-4101 through 12-4701 and providing substitute and additional
               provisions on the same subject, providing for a code for the Municipal Court
               of Wamego, Kansas; and providing for a method of selection and compensation
4       - -    for a Judge thereof: a courtroom and supplies therefor and providing for a
               method of determination of indigency of certain defendants and providing for
               the appointment and compensation of a public defender for indigent defendants
               and amending and repealing the following existing city ordinances: §§13-101
               through 13-134 of the city’s code. (Repealed by Charter Ord. 10.)
        4-1-   An ordinance authorizing and empowering the governing body of the City of
5       1975   Wamego, Kansas (a city of the second class) to levy taxes annually for the
               acquisition, equipment, operation
5       4-1-   and maintenance of a municipal airport at a rate of levy not to exceed one
        1975   mill for each dollar of assessed tangible valuation.
               A Charter ordinance exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas from K.S.A. 79-5011;
               providing substitute and additional provisions on the same subject; and
6       2-3-   authorizing the levying of taxes to create a special fund for the purpose of
        1981   paying public safety costs; and authorizing the levying of taxes to create a
               special fund for the purpose of paying street maintenance and improvement
               costs.
        3-17-  A Charter ordinance exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from the provisions
7       1981   of the 1978 supplements to K.S.A. 75-1117, 75-1120, 75-1121 and 75-1122, so
               as to not require said city to maintain fixed asset records and accountings.
        11-17- A Charter ordinance exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from the provisions
8       1981   of K.S.A. 75-1120a, so as not to require said city to maintain fixed asset
               records.
               A Charter ordinance exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from K.S.A. 79-
9       5-18-  1952; providing substitute and additional provisions on the same subject; and
        1982   authorizing the levying of taxes not to exceed one mill in addition to three
               mills authorized by K.S.A. 79-1952 for library purposes.
               A Charter ordinance repealing Charter Ord. 4 of the City of Wamego, Kansas,
               which Charter Ord. 4 of said city exempted the City of Wamego, Kansas, from
        12-6-  the provision of K.S.A. 12-4101 through 12-4701 and provided substitute and
10      1983   additional provisions on the same subject; provided for a code for the
               Municipal Court of Wamego, Kansas; and provided for a method of selection of
               determination of indigency of certain defendants and provided for the
               appointment and compensation of a public defender for indigent defendants.
               A Charter ordinance exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from K.S.A. 79-
11      7-21-  1952; providing substitute and additional provisions on the same subject; and
        1987   authorizing the levying of taxes not to exceed two mills in addition to three
               mills authorized by K.S.A. 79-1952 for library purposes.
               A Charter ordinance exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from the provision
12      7-3-   of K.S.A. 12-1696 to 12-16,101, inclusive, and providing substitute and
        1990   additional provisions on the same subject, relating to the levy of a
               transient guest tax for tourism and conventions.
13      10-1-  A Charter ordinance exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from the provision
        1991   of K.S.A. 14-1302, relating to City Commissioners holding office for profit.
               A Charter ordinance exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from the provisions
14      12-17- of 1992 K.S.A. 79-5028, commonly known as the Kansas Property Tax Lid Law,
        1996   which enactment applies to the city, but does not apply uniformly to all
               cities.
               A Charter ordinance amending or repealing section of Charter Ord. 12 and
        3-29-  exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from the provision of K.S.A. 12-1696
15      2001   through 12-16,101, inclusive, and providing substitute and additional
               provisions on the same subject, relating to the levy of a transient guest tax
               for tourism and conventions.
               A Charter ordinance exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from the provisions
16      5-15-  of the Water Pollution Act as contained in K.S.A. 12-3101 et seq., and
        2004   providing substitute and additional provisions on the same subject, relating
               to the establishment, operation and maintenance of a storm water utility.
               A Charter ordinance amending or repealing section of Charter Ord. 12 and
        3-2-   exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from the provision of K.S.A. 12-1696
17      2004   through 12-16,101, inclusive, and providing substitute and additional
               provisions on the same subject, relating to the levy of a transient guest tax
               for tourism and conventions.
        5-18-  A Charter ordinance exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from the provisions
18      2004   of K.S.A. 12-1758 and K.S.A. 12-1767 relating to public building commissions
               and the issuance of revenue bonds.
        6-19-  A Charter ordinance exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from the provisions
19      2007   of K.S.A. 12-1758 and K.S.A. 12-1767 relating to public building commissions
               and the issuance of revenue bonds.
               A Charter ordinance of the City of Wamego, Kansas, amending the provisions of
20      11-3-  Charter Ord. 16, relating to storm water utility fees for non- residential
        2015   electric, water and/or sewer utility customers of the city receiving service
               within the corporate limits of the city.
               A Charter ordinance exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from the provisions
21      1-2-   of K.S.A. 14-1204, relating to the election of officers, their terms of
        2016   office, transitions to November elections, the filing of governing body
               vacancies and nomination petitions.
               A Charter ordinance exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from the provisions
22      1-5-   of L. 2015, Chapter 88, §71 relating to the fulfilling of governing body
        2016   vacancies and establishing a procedure for the filing of governing body
               vacancies.
        6-20-  A Charter ordinance exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from the provisions
23      2017   of K.S.A. 12-1737, relating to public building commissions and the issuance
               of revenue bonds.
               A Charter ordinance exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from the provisions
24      - -    of K.S.A. 12-621, relating to sewage disposal works improvements and the
               issuance of bonds.
        12-7-  A Charter ordinance exempting the City of Wamego, Kansas, from the provisions
25      2021   of K.S.A. 14-570 and K.S.A. 14-571, relating to public improvements and the
               issuance of bonds for the purpose of paying for said improvements.
              
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     An ordinance granting to the Kansas Power and Light
                     Company, a Kansas corporation, its successors and assigns,
767      9-16-1975   the right to construct, operate and maintain electric
                     lines over certain streets, avenues and alleys of the city
                     of Wamego, Kansas.
                     An ordinance of the City of Wamego, Kansas, granting to
                     Wamego Community Antenna Systems, Inc., its successors,
                     lessees and assigns, for a term of 20 years, the right,
                     authority, power and franchise to establish, construct,
                     acquire, maintain and operate a community antennas and
847      11-20-1979  closed circuit electronic system within the City of
                     Wamego, Kansas, to render, furnish, and sell community
                     antennas and closed circuit electronic service therefrom
                     within the City of Wamego, Kansas, and environs thereof,
                     and to use and occupy the streets and other public places
                     of the City of Wamego, Kansas, for such community antennas
                     and closed circuit electronic system.
                     An ordinance granting to the Wamego Telephone Company,
910      - -         Inc., its successors and assigns, the right to construct,
                     install, maintain and operate a telephone system within
                     the City of Wamego, Kansas.
                     An ordinance, granting to the Kansas Power and Light
                     Company, a Kansas corporation, its successors and assigns,
961      7-2-1985    a natural gas franchise for a period of 20 years,
                     prescribing the terms thereof and relating thereto, and
                     repealing all ordinances or parts of ordinances
                     inconsistent with or conflicting with the terms thereof.
                     An ordinance, granting to Kansas Gas Service, a Division
                     of Oneok, Inc., its successors and assigns, a natural gas
1459     9-20-2005   franchise for a period of 20 years, prescribing the terms
                     thereof and relating thereto, and repealing all ordinances
                     or parts of ordinances inconsistent with or in conflict
                     with the terms hereof.
                     An ordinance of the City of Wamego, Kansas, granting to
                     Wamego Telecommunications, Inc., its successors, lessees,
1553     11-17-2009  and assigns, the right, authority, power and franchise to
                     establish, construct, acquire, maintain and operate a
                     cable television and closed circuit electronic service
                     therewith within the City of Wamego, Kansas, and environs
                     thereof for five years, and to use and occupy the streets
1553     11-17-2009  and other public places of the City of Wamego, Kansas, for
                     such cable television and closed circuit electronic
                     system.
                     An ordinance granting to Wamego Telecommunications, Inc.,
                     its successors and assigns, the right to construct,
1554     11-17-2009  install, maintain and operate a telecommunications system
                     within the City of Wamego, Kansas for a period of five
                     years.
                     An ordinance of the governing body of the City of Wamego,
                     Kansas, granting to the City of Alma, a municipal
                     corporation of the State of Kansas, its successors and
1558     2-16-2010   assigns, the right to construct, operate and maintain a
                     natural gas transmission line and appurtenances thereto,
                     within public right-of-way in the City of Wamego, Kansas
                     for a period of 20 years.
                     An ordinance of the governing body of the City of Wamego,
1611     4-16-2013   Kansas, establishing a 4% franchise fee for customers of
                     the Wamego Electric Utility System who receive electric
                     service within the corporate limits of Wamego, Kansas.
                     An ordinance of the governing body of the City of Wamego,
1645     3-17-2015   Kansas, establishing a 3.75% franchise fee for customers
                     of the Wamego Electric Utility System who receive electric
                     service within the corporate limits of Wamego, Kansas.
                     An ordinance granting to Wamego Telecommunications
                     Company, Inc., its successors and assigns, the right to
1745     2-16-2021   construct, install, maintain and operate a
                     telecommunications system within the City of Wamego,
                     Kansas for a period of five years.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kansas Statutes Annotated
References to Charter Ordinances
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KANSAS STATUTES ANNOTATED
K.S.A. Code Section Code Section
K.S.A. Code Section     Code Section
Ch. 2, Art. 13          8-507
2-1314                  8-507
3-703 et seq.           16-701
3-705(2)                16-702
8-401                   14-504
                        8-411,
8-1102                  14-502,
                        14-509
8-1102(b)               14-507
8-1102(6)               14-507
8-126 to 8-149          8-305,
                        8-403
8-1546                  14-101
8-1570                  14-501
8-1599                  3-107
8-2118                  14-102
9-1402                  1-802
9-2107                  1-802
10-803                  1-405
Ch. 12, Art. 41         9-108
12-120 to 12-121        1-114
12-685 et seq.          14-215
12-741 et seq.          16-104
12-757                  17-3505
12-821                  15-226
12-1005(c)              TSO I
12-1006                 TSO I
12-1011                 1-301,
                        1-303
12-1013                 1-302
12-1014                 1-304
12-1024                 1-306
                        8-210,
12-1,115                8-314,
                        8-413,
                        8-504
12-1218 through 12-1230 12-301
12-1226                 1-503,
                        12-305
12-1408 to 12-1411      12-123
12-1608                 1-405
12-1617                 5-105
                        8-205,
                        8-206,
12-1617e                8-210,
                        8-309,
                        8-407
12-1617f                8-503,
                        8-504
12-1675                 1-802
12-1675a(g)             1-802
12-1677a                1-802
12-1677b                1-802
12-1696 to 12-16,101    TSO I
12-1740 et seq.         3-105
12-1750 et seq.         8-907,
                        8-908
12-1756                 8-909
12-1757 et seq.         1-421
12-1801                 13-202
12-1802                 13-203
12-1803                 13-204
12-1804                 13-205
12-1805                 13-206
12-1806                 13-207
12-1807                 13-202
12-1808                 13-208
12-1930                 12-503
12-2101                 15-504
12-3002                 1-109
12-3004                 1-110
12-3007                 1-111
12-3008                 1-112
12-3009                 16-501
12-3010                 16-501
12-3014                 1-106
12-3015                 1-106
12-3301                 16-501
12-4101 et seq.         9-102,
                        9-106
12-4101 through 12-4701 TSO I
12-4101                 TSO I
12-4107                 9-105
12-4108                 9-108
12-4701                 TSO I
12-16,125               15-103
14-103                  6-201
14-111                  1-204
14-605                  12-204
14-807                  TSO I
14-819                  TSO I
14-820                  TSO I
14-1201                 TSO I
14-1204                 TSO I
14-1208                 TSO I
14-1304                 1-503
16a-2-403               15-103
17-12a401               1-802
21-6204                 8-201
22-2512                 10-203
25-2101 et seq.         6-103
25-2111                 6-104
25-2120                 6-105
Chapter 27              3-105
Chapter 32              2-108
32-1047                 10-203
40-403                  12-215
40-1702 through 40-1707 7-301
40-2404                 8-911
40-3101 et seq.         14-108
40-3901 et seq.         8-901
Chapter 41              3-301
41-102                  3-301
41-712                  3-302
                        3-104,
41-719                  3-105,
                        3-107
41-727                  3-109
Chapter 41, Article 26  3-109
41-2601 et seq.         3-216
41-2614                 3-216
41-2637                 3-101
41-2659                 3-106
Chapter 41, Article 27  3-109
41-2701                 3-201
41-2701 et seq.         3-101
41-2708                 3-208
41-2729                 3-101
41-2911(b)              3-302
Chapter 47              2-108
53-601                  11-101
54-104                  1-501
54-106                  1-501,
                        6-105
58-1301                 17-3004
58-3702 et seq.         17-2901
60-1111                 13-209
60-2101                 8-313
66-1801 et seq.         4-1502
72-1107(c)              17-302
74-7033                 4-902
75-1117                 TSO I
75-1120                 TSO I
75-1120a                TSO I
75-1121                 TSO I
75-1122                 TSO I
Chapter 75, Article 40  1-305
75-4301a et seq.        1-422
75-4308                 1-501
                        1-503,
78-111                  1-504,
                        TSO I
79-1952                 TSO I
79-3302                 11-101
79-3321 through 79-3322 11-101
79-5011                 TSO I
                        
 
REFERENCES TO CHARTER ORDINANCES
Charter Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Charter Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1                10-16-1962  TSO I
2                1-21-1969   TSO I
3                - -         6-101,
                             TSO I
3                7-18-1972   TSO I
4                - -         TSO I
5                4-1-1975    TSO I
6                2-3-1981    TSO I
7                3-17-1981   TSO I
8                11-17-1981  TSO I
9                5-18-1982   TSO I
                             9-101,
10               12-6-1983   9-102,
                             9-106,
                             TSO I
11               7-21-1987   TSO I
12               7-3-1990    TSO I
13               10-1-1991   TSO I
14               12-17-1996  TSO I
15               3-29-2001   TSO I
                             TSO I,
16               5-15-2006   15-601—
                             15-607
17               3-2-2004    TSO I
18               5-18-2004   TSO I
19               6-19-2007   TSO I
20               11-3-2015   TSO I,
                             15-604
21               1-2-2016    TSO I
22               1-5-2016    TSO I,
                             1-205
23               6-20-2017   TSO I
24               - -         TSO I
25               12-7-2021   TSO I
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
883      - -         12-401—
                     12-406
910      - -         TSO II
                     3-101—
1020     - -         3-105,
                     3-107—
                     3-110
1050     - -         3-109
1181     - -         15-224
1246     - -         1-414
1345     - -         15-106
1747     - -         14-215
686      7-6-1971    14-211
758      1-7-1975    14-208
767      9-16-1975   TSO II
                     15-401—
                     15-404,
                     15-407,
                     15-409,
786      2-1-1977    15-410,
                     15-412—
                     15-418,
                     15-420—
                     15-434
                     15-436,
801      6-21-1977   15-439,
                     15-440—
                     15-443
804      8-15-1977   14-203
839      5-15-1979   15-201
836      8-26-1979   15-502—
                     15-504
847      11-20-1979  TSO II
851      1-8-1980    14-304
858      5-8-1980    14-204
861      6-17-1980   16-601,
                     16-602
                     15-501,
                     15-505—
887      2-16-1982   15-510,
                     15-512,
                     15-514
                     14-104,
941      2-21-1984   14-205—
                     14-207
943      3-20-1984   14-303
946      8-21-1984   15-305
                     15-304,
956      2-5-1985    15-305,
                     15-405,
                     15-406
961      7-2-1985    TSO II
981      5-20-1986   15-228
998      11-18-1986  15-301,
                     15-303
1013     6-2-1987    12-207
1015     7-21-1987   15-406
                     15-102,
1032     10-4-1988   15-107,
                     15-112,
                     15-116
                     13-301—
                     13-309,
1037     12-20-1988  13-311—
                     13-318,
                     13-320
1038     12-20-1988  6-201
1045     6-6-1989    15-309—
                     15-316
                     15-318—
1051     9-5-1989    15-325,
                     Table 1,
                     Table 2
1081     9-18-1990   15-308,
                     15-435
1090     12-4-1990   13-310
1104     8-6-1991    16-102
1113     4-21-1992   12-101—
                     12-127
1117     6-2-1992    16-401
1152     2-2-1993    15-408
1205     6-21-1994   15-511
1207     7-19-1994   13-210
                     15-101,
                     15-102,
                     15-104—
                     15-107,
1209     8-16-1994   15-110,
                     15-113,
                     15-116,
                     15-201—
                     15-207
                     13-101,
1211     8-16-1994   13-107—
                     13-109
1215     11-15-1994  15-302
1225     5-2-1995    15-217—
                     15-223
1239     11-21-1995  15-438
1260     5-20-1197   13-208
                     12-201—
1280     2-17-1998   12-203,
                     12-206,
                     12-208
1282     3-3-1998    13-107
                     2-207,
1286     6-16-1998   2-109,
                     2-116
1295     10-6-1998   15-306,
                     15-307
1296     10-6-1998   15-438
1298     10-20-1998  15-314,
                     15-315
1300     12-1-1998   16-701,
                     16-702
1343     9-19-2000   11-201,
                     11-202
                     15-108,
1347     11-7-2000   15-114,
                     15-115
1359     7-17-2001   13-117,
                     13-211
1367     12-4-2001   12-501—
                     12-503
1377     4-2-2002    15-437
1398     1-21-2003   13-110
1416     9-16-2003   11-102
1417     9-16-2003   11-102
1427     2-17-2004   15-216
1437     8-17-2004   1-421
1440     9-21-2004   8-501
1443     12-7-2004   12-503
1446     3-15-2005   15-110,
                     15-111
1451     6-21-2005   15-215
                     15-209,
1452     7-6-2005    15-210,
                     15-213
1459     9-20-2005   TSO II
1482     7-3-2006    15-215
1483     8-1-2006    15-202,
                     15-302
1486     9-5-2006    12-303
1502     5-15-2007   15-202
1504     5-15-2007   14-215
1506     7-3-2007    15-215
1513     8-21-2007   14-102—
                     14-104
1514     11-6-2007   12-119,
                     12-120
1523     6-17-2008   12-519
1524     7-1-2008    15-215
1526     8-5-2008    1-204
                     2-106,
1531     10-21-2008  2-107,
                     2-111—
                     2-115
1534     12-2-2008   12-508—
                     12-512
1535     1-6-2009    14-304
1537     3-24-2009   15-215
1546     8-4-2009    15-107
1547     9-1-2009    14-105—
                     14-110
1553     11-17-2009  TSO II
1554     11-17-2009  TSO II
1558     2-16-2010   TSO II
1561     8-3-2010    15-302
1567     2-3-2011    16-301
1570     3-15-2011   1-204
1571     4-19-2011   14-215
1575     8-16-2011   14-101
1576     9-6-2011    15-103
1586     4-3-2012    4-1401—
                     4-1403
1590     4-17-2012   15-202
1592     6-19-2012   15-110
1593     7-3-2012    12-101,
                     12-128
1596     8-7-2012    3-104,
                     3-105
1605     1-15-2013   15-110
1611     4-16-2013   TSO II
1612     6-4-2013    1-204
1614     7-2-2013    15-103
1619     10-1-2013   15-105,
                     15-106
1623     1-7-2014    15-303
1624     1-21-2014   15-202
1626     2-18-2014   15-112
                     4-101—
                     4-111,
                     4-201—
                     4-205,
                     4-301—
                     4-308,
                     4-401—
                     4-412,
                     4-501—
                     4-510,
                     4-601—
                     4-610,
                     4-701—
1629     5-4-2014    4-711,
                     4-801—
                     4-810,
                     4-901,
                     4-902,
                     4-1001,
                     4-1002,
                     4-1101—
                     4-1109,
                     4-1201—
                     4-1206,
                     4-1301—
                     4-1305,
                     4-1401—
                     4-1403
                     7-101—
                     7-105,
1630     5-6-2014    7-201—
                     7-209,
                     7-301
1644     3-17-2015   15-215
1645     3-17-2015   TSO II
1647     5-5-2015    15-420
1648     6-16-2015   15-103,
                     15-105
1653     9-1-2015    15-203
1657     11-3-2015   13-317
1656     11-17-2015  2-121
1661     6-7-2016    5-102—
                     5-106
1663     10-4-2016   16-301,
                     16-401
1667     11-1-2016   15-103,
                     15-106
1668     11-1-2016   15-105
1675     1-3-2017    4-1501,
                     4-1503
1676     1-3-2017    15-404
1681     7-5-2017    14-101
1685     10-3-2017   14-101
1699     9-18-2018   2-201
1700     10-16-2018  14-101
1702     11-6-2018   15-108
1704     12-4-2018   15-110
1707     3-19-2019   3-101,
                     3-201—3-218
1712     5-21-2019   11-102
1714     6-3-2019    7-103
1724     11-19-2019  15-228
1726     12-3-2019   8-801—
                     8-803
1731     6-16-2020   14-215
1732     7-21-2020   4-1301
1736     9-15-2020   14-104
1740     12-1-2020   1-205
1741     1-9-2021    15-306
                     15-437,
1742     1-19-2021   15-438,
                     15-440
1745     2-16-2021   TSO II
1750     4-6-2021    16-201
1752     5-18-2021   8-802,
                     8-803
1753     6-1-2021    3-301,
                     3-302
1759     9-21-2021   16-501
1760     10-5-2021   15-228
1761     10-5-2021   14-205,
                     14-207
1762     10-19-2021  14-101
1764     10-19-2021  15-506
1765     10-19-2021  13-317
1766     3-15-2022   16-201
                     4-101—
                     4-111,
                     4-201—
                     4-205,
                     4-301—
                     4-308,
                     4-401—
                     4-412,
                     4-501—
                     4-510,
                     4-601—
                     4-610,
                     4-701—
1772     6-21-2022   4-711,
                     4-801—
                     4-810,
                     4-901,
                     4-902,
                     4-1001,
                     4-1002,
                     4-1101—
                     4-1109,
                     4-1201—
                     4-1206,
                     4-1301—
                     4-1305,
                     4-1401—
                     4-1403
                     7-101—
                     7-105,
1773     6-21-2022   7-201—
                     7-209,
                     7-301
1775     9-6-2022    16-501
                     14-101,
1777     10-4-2022   14-108,
                     14-110
1779     10-4-2022   16-501
1780     10-18-2022  16-501
                     15-437,
1784     11-15-2022  15-438,
                     15-440
1787     12-6-2022   13-302
1789     3-21-2023   3-301—
                     3-303
1790     4-4-2023    16-201
                     7-201,
1792     5-2-2023    7-204,
                     7-205,
                     7-207
1793     9-19-2023   14-101
1794     9-19-2023   11-101
1795     11-7-2023   15-117
                     15-208—
1797     12-5-2023   15-214,
                     15-216
                     15-437,
1798     12-5-2023   15-438,
                     15-440
1799     12-5-2023   15-306
1800     12-19-2023  14-104
1801     3-19-2024   16-201
1802     4-16-2024   11-203,
                     11-204
1803     7-16-2024   14-101
1804     7-16-2024   11-101
                     12-514,
1806     10-15-2024  14-105—
                     14-110
                     15-208—
1809     11-19-2024  15-214,
                     15-216
1810     11-19-2024  13-301—
                     13-319
1811     11-19-2024  15-513,
                     15-514
1812     11-19-2024  13-317
1813     12-17-2024  14-301
                    
 
 
