BEACON, IOWA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 2024-2, passed 8-6-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ARTICLE 1
CHAPTER 9
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF BEACON, IOWA
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Iowa empower and authorize
the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF BEACON, IOWA:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of
Ordinances of the Beacon, Iowa."
Section 2. Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following Titles:
   Title 1: Administration
   Title 2: Business and License Regulations
   Title 3: Health, Sanitation, and Environment
   Title 4: Public Safety
   Title 5: Motor Vehicles and Traffic
   Title 6: Public Ways and Property
   Title 7: Building and Development
   Title 8: Subdivision Regulations
   Appendix of Special Ordinances
Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code
of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part
in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4. Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the
Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political Subdivision is hereby
authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 5. Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for
the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of
the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
this 5th day of January, 2021.
____________________________________
Jim Hughes, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Jaimie Williamson, City Clerk
TITLE 1: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
1.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
2.   FORM OF GOVERNMENT
      
3.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
4.   CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
5.   SPECIFIC CITY OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
      
6.   RETENTION OF RECORDS
      
7.   PUBLIC PLACES FOR PUBLIC POSTINGS
      
8.   E-MAIL POLICY
CHAPTER 1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
General Provisions
1-1-1   Title
1-1-2   Definitions
1-1-3   City powers
1-1-4   Indemnity
1-1-5   Personal injuries
1-1-6   Rules of construction
1-1-7   Amendments
1-1-8   Catchlines and notes
1-1-9   Altering code
1-1-10   Severability
Municipal Infractions
1-1-25   Definitions
1-1-26   Schedule of civil penalties
1-1-27   Each day’s occurrence a separate offense
1-1-28   Alternative relief
1-1-29   Exceptions
1-1-30   Authority to issue civil citations
1-1-31   Service of citation
1-1-32   Citation copy to be sent to District Court
1-1-33   Contents of citation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 1-1-1 TITLE.
   This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the “Beacon Code
of Ordinances”.
§ 1-1-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Where words and
phrases used in this code of ordinances are defined by state law, those
definitions apply to their use in this code of ordinances and are adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise in another portion of this code
of ordinances.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way, other than a street, affording secondary means
of access to abutting property.
   CITY. The City of Beacon, Iowa.
   CLERK. The City Clerk of Beacon, Iowa.
   CODE. The specific chapter of this code of ordinances in which a specific
subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the Building
Code and/or a standard code adopted by reference).
   CODE OF ORDINANCES. The Beacon Code of Ordinances.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of Beacon, Iowa.
   COUNTY. Mahaska County, Iowa.
   DAY. A 24-hour consecutive period of time.
   MEASURE. An ordinance, amendment, resolution or motion.
   MINUTES. The written record of an official proceeding.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which by law an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in these cases, the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED are
equivalent to the words SWEAR and SWORN.
   OCCUPANT or TENANT. As applied to a building or land, includes any person
who occupies the whole or a part of a building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   ORDINANCES. The ordinances of the City of Beacon, Iowa, as embodied in this
code of ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance adopting this code
of ordinances and those enacted hereafter.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign corporation,
company, association or joint stock association, trust or other legal entity,
and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee or similar representative thereof,
but does not include a governmental body.
   PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Includes real property, and tangible and intangible personal
property unless clearly indicated otherwise.
   PROPERTY OWNER. A person owning private property in the city as shown by the
County Auditor’s plats of the city.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes in its meaning, but is not restricted to, any city-
owned open place, such as parks and squares.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any and all property owned by the city or held in the name
of the city by any of the departments, commissions or agencies within the city
government.
   PUBLIC WAY. Includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk or other public thoroughfare.
   SIDEWALK. The surfaced portion of the street between the edge of the
traveled way, surfacing or curb line and the adjacent property line, intended
for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Iowa.
   STATUTES or LAWS. The latest edition of the Iowa Code, as amended.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
   WRITING and WRITTEN. Includes printing, typing, lithographing or other mode
of representing words and letters.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
§ 1-1-3 CITY POWERS.
   The city may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if
not inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power
and perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the
rights, privileges and property of the city and of its residents, and preserve
and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort and convenience of its
residents and each and every provision of this code of ordinances shall be
deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and the performance of the
foregoing functions.
§ 1-1-4 INDEMNITY.
   (A)   The applicant for any permit or license under this code of ordinances,
by making an application, assumes and agrees to pay for all injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and all loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising
from or related to, directly, indirectly or remotely, the issuance of the
permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of the
applicant, or the agents, employees or servants of the applicant, to abide by
or comply with any of the provisions of this code of ordinances or the terms
and conditions of the permit or license, and the applicant, by making an
application, forever agrees to indemnify the city and its officers, agents and
employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands,
lawsuits or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury or death,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any
permit or license issued under this code of ordinances or any other ordinance
of the city whether expressly recited therein or not.
§ 1-1-5 PERSONAL INJURIES.
   (A)   When action is brought against the city for personal injuries alleged
to have been caused by its negligence, the city may notify in writing any
person by whose negligence it claims the injury was caused.
   (B)   The notice shall state the pendency of the action, the name of the
plaintiff, the name and location of the court where the action is pending, a
brief statement of the alleged facts from which the cause arose, that the city
believes that the person notified is liable to it for any judgment rendered
against the city and asking the person to appear and defend.
   (C)   A judgment obtained in this suit is conclusive in any action by the
city against any person so notified, as to the existence of the defect or other
cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the city to the plaintiff
in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage or injury.
   (D)   The city may maintain an action against the person notified to recover
the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by the city
in the suit.
§ 1-1-6 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of the code of ordinances, the following rules shall be
observed, unless this construction would be inconsistent with the manifest
intent of the Council or repugnant to the context of the provisions.
   (A)   Verb tense and plurals. Words used in the present tense include the
future; the singular number includes the plural and the plural number includes
the singular.
   (B)   May. The word “may” confers a power.
   (C)   Must. The word “must” states a requirement.
   (D)   Shall. The word “shall” imposes a duty.
   (E)   Gender. The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
   (F)   Interpretation. All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions
contained in the code of ordinances shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the Council may be fully carried out.
   (G)   Extension of authority. Whenever an officer or employee is required or
authorized to do an act by a provision of the code of ordinances, the provision
shall be construed as authorizing performance by a regular assistant,
subordinate or a duly authorized designee of the officer or employee.
§ 1-1-7 AMENDMENTS.
   All ordinances which amend, repeal or in any manner affect this code of
ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, division or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the city.
(Iowa Code § 380.2)
§ 1-1-8 CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of the code of ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section and division), editor’s notes, cross-references and
state law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in the code of ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law, and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement or clarify the contents of
a section.
§ 1-1-9 ALTERING CODE.
   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend by additions
or deletions, any part or portion of the code of ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the code of
ordinances in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be
misrepresented thereby.
(Iowa Code § 718.5)
§ 1-1-10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, provision or part of the code of ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, the adjudication will not affect the validity of
the code of ordinances as a whole or any section, provision or part thereof not
adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
§ 1-1-25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION. Except those provisions specifically provided under
state law as a felony, aggravated misdemeanor, serious misdemeanor or simple
misdemeanor under Iowa Code Ch. 687 to 747, and except as provided herein, the
doing of any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful, and offense or
misdemeanor by this code, or any ordinance or code herein adopted by reference
or omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by this code or any
ordinance or code herein adopted by reference, is a MUNICIPAL INFRACTION and is
punishable by civil penalty, as herein provided.
   OFFICER. An employee or official authorized to enforce this code.
   REPEAT OFFENSE. A recurring violation of the same section of this code.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 7, § 1) (Ord. passed 5-3-2005)
§ 1-1-26 SCHEDULE OF CIVIL PENALTIES.
   A municipal infraction is punishable by a civil penalty as provided in the
following schedule, unless a specific schedule of civil penalties is provided
for specific offenses elsewhere in the code:
   (A)   First offense: $500;
   (B)   Second offense: $750; and
   (C)   All other repeat offenses: $750.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 7, § 2) (Ord. passed 5-3-2005)
§ 1-1-27 EACH DAY’S OCCURRENCE A SEPARATE OFFENSE.
   Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist by the violator
constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 7, § 3) (Ord. passed 5-3-2005)
§ 1-1-28 ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this subchapter does not preclude
the city from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 7, § 4) (Ord. passed 5-3-2005)
§ 1-1-29 EXCEPTIONS.
   In addition to the exceptions as set in §
1-1-25 of this chapter, this subchapter shall not apply to the following code
provisions:
   (A)   Cigarette retailers, §§
2-1-1 through
2-1-10 of this code of ordinances; and
   (B)   Beer and liquor establishments, §§
2-2-1 through
2-2-7 and
2-2-20 through
2-2-35 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 7, § 5) (Ord. passed 5-3-2005)
§ 1-1-30 AUTHORITY TO ISSUE CIVIL CITATIONS.
   The following city officials are authorized to issue civil citations:
   (A)   The Mayor; or
   (B)   The designee of the City Council.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 7, § 6) (Ord. passed 5-3-2005)
§ 1-1-31 SERVICE OF CITATION.
   The citation may be served by personal service or by certified mail, return
receipt requested.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 7, § 7) (Ord. passed 5-3-2005)
§ 1-1-32 CITATION COPY TO BE SENT TO DISTRICT COURT.
   A copy of the citation shall be sent to the Clerk of the state’s District
Court in and for the county.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 7, § 8) (Ord. passed 5-3-2005)
§ 1-1-33 CONTENTS OF CITATION.
   The citation shall serve as notification that a civil offense has been
committed and shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name and address of the defendant;
   (B)   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation;
   (C)   The location and time of the infraction;
   (D)   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed and/or the alternative
relief sought;
   (E)   The manner, location and time in which the penalty may be paid;
   (F)   The time and place of the court appearance; and
   (G)   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 7, § 9) (Ord. passed 5-3-2005)
CHAPTER 2: FORM OF GOVERNMENT
Section
1-2-1   Purpose
1-2-2   Charter
1-2-3   Form of government
1-2-4   Powers and duties
1-2-5   Number and term of Council
1-2-6   Term of Mayor
1-2-7   Copies on file
§ 1-2-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a charter embodying the form
of government existing on 1-1-1985.
(Prior Code, Art. 2, Ch. 1, § 1) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-2-2 CHARTER.
   This chapter may be cited as the “Charter of the City of Beacon, Iowa”.
(Prior Code, Art. 2, Ch. 1, § 2) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-2-3 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government of the city is the Mayor-Council form of government.
(Prior Code, Art. 2, Ch. 1, § 3) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-2-4 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Council and Mayor and other city officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by state law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the city.
(Prior Code, Art. 2, Ch. 1, § 4) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-2-5 NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
   The Council consists of five Council members elected at large, elected for
the term of two years.
(Prior Code, Art. 2, Ch. 1, § 5) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-2-6 TERM OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Prior Code, Art. 2, Ch. 1, § 6) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-2-7 COPIES ON FILE.
   The Clerk shall keep an official copy of this Charter on file with the
official records of the Clerk, shall immediately file a copy with the Secretary
of State of Iowa, and shall keep copies of the Charter available at the Clerk
of Court’s office for public inspection.
(Prior Code, Art. 2, Ch. 1, § 7) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
CHAPTER 3: MAYOR AND COUNCIL
Section
Mayor
1-3-1   Term of office
1-3-2   Powers and duties
1-3-3   Compensation
1-3-4   Voting
Council Members
1-3-15   Number and term
1-3-16   Powers and duties
1-3-17   Exercise of power
1-3-18   Meetings
1-3-19   Appointments
1-3-20   Compensation
Consent Agenda
1-3-35   Purpose
1-3-36   Definition
1-3-37   Component of consent agenda
Cross-reference:
   Form of Government, see §§
1-2-1 through
1-2-7
MAYOR
§ 1-3-1 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 2, § 1) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-3-2 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The duties of the Mayor shall be as follows:
   (A)   General supervision. Supervise the recommendations to officers
concerning their functions. He or she shall have the power to examine all
functions of the municipal officers, their records and call for special reports
from officers at any time;
   (B)   Absence of officers. With the approval of the Council, the Mayor shall
make appropriate provision that duties of any absentee officer be carried on
during the officer’s absence;
   (C)   Represent the city. With the Council’s approval, the Mayor shall
represent the city in all negotiations properly entered into in accordance with
law or ordinance. The Mayor shall not represent the city where this duty is
specifically delegated to another officer by law or ordinance;
   (D)   Sign contracts. Whenever authorized by the Council, the Mayor shall
sign all contracts on behalf of the city;
   (E)   Special Council meetings. The Mayor shall call special Council
meetings of the City Council when he or she deems such meetings necessary to
the interests of the city;
   (F)   Reports to the City Council. The Mayor shall make an oral or written
report to the City Council each month. These reports shall concern municipal
affairs generally, the municipal departments and recommendations suitable for
Council action;
   (G)   Mayor pro tem. Immediately after taking office, the Mayor shall
designate one member of the City Council “Mayor pro tempore”, which appointment
shall be made subject to the approval of a majority of the Council. The Mayor
pro tempore will be Vice-President of the Council. Except for the limitations
otherwise provided herein, the Mayor pro tempore shall perform the duties of
the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the Mayor to perform the duties
of his or her office. In the exercise of the duties of his or her office, the
Mayor pro tempore shall not have power to employ or discharge from employment
officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint, employ or
discharge. The Mayor pro tempore shall have the right to vote as a member of
the Council;
   (H)   Secure specialized and professional personnel. Upon order of the City
Council, the Mayor shall secure for the city such specialized and professional
services not already available to the city. In executing the order of the City
Council, the Mayor shall conduct himself or herself in accordance with the city
ordinances and the laws of the state;
   (I)   License and permits. Sign all licenses and permits which have been
granted by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be
issued by another municipal officer;
   (J)   Revocation of permits and licenses. Upon authorization of the Council,
the Mayor shall revoke permits or licenses granted by the Council when their
terms are violated or the ordinances of the city and the laws of the state are
violated by holders of said permits or licenses; and
   (K)   Abatement of nuisances. The Mayor shall order to be removed, at public
expense, any nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.
This order shall be in writing. The order to remove said nuisances shall be
carried out by the appropriate officials.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 2, § 2) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-3-3 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The salary of the Mayor shall be one thousand eight hundred dollars
($1,800.00) per year ($150.00 per month).
   (B)   The Mayor shall be compensated in the amount of twenty-five dollars
($25.00) for each meeting which the Mayor is appearing or functioning as a
representative of the City and any other meeting, event, or function which the
City Council has directed or authorized the Mayor to attend either prior to or
after the meeting, event, or function has occurred.
   (C)   The Mayor shall also receive reimbursement for expenses related to
attendance at said additional meetings as well as any other functions which
they are authorized to attend on behalf of the City, including mileage costs at
the then applicable IRS rate.
   (D)   In addition to that compensation listed in this section, the Mayor
shall receive as compensation for attendance at workshops, seminars, or
conventions one hundred dollars ($100) for each day of attendance or fifty
dollars ($50) for each half day of attendance, plus reimbursement for expenses
related to attendance, including mileage costs at the then applicable IRS rate.
Written claims for all additional compensation and related expenses shall be
submitted to the City Clerk.
      The Mayor shall submit written claims to the City Clerk for compensation
and for reimbursement expenses. The claims shall be approved by the City
Council at a regularly scheduled meeting held after submission of the claim.
   (E)   The Mayor SHALL NOT submit written claims for compensation and/or for
reimbursement expenses if said member is receiving or will receive compensation
from any other entity or organization for the same event, meeting, or function.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 2, § 3) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985; amd. Ord. passed 7-5-
2022)
§ 1-3-4 VOTING.
   The Mayor is not a member of the Council and may not vote as a member of the
Council.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 2, § 4) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
COUNCIL MEMBERS
§ 1-3-15 NUMBER AND TERM.
   The Council consists of five Council members elected at large for terms of
two years each.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 3, § 1) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-3-16 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Council shall include, but are not limited to,
the following:
   (A)   General. All powers of the city are vested in the Council, except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance;
   (B)   Wards. By ordinance, the Council may divide the city into wards based
upon the population, change the boundaries of wards, eliminate wards or create
new wards;
   (C)   Fiscal authority. The Council shall apportion and appropriate all
funds, and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls and claims, and order
payment thereof. It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers and other work, improvement or repairs which
may be specially assessed;
   (D)   Public improvements. The Council shall make all orders for the doing
of work, or the making or constructing of any improvements, bridges or
buildings;
   (E)   Contracts. The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts, and no contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the city unless
either made by ordinance or resolution adopted by the Council, or reduced to
writing and approved by the Council, or expressly authorized by ordinance or
resolution adopted by the Council;
   (F)   Employees. The Council shall make or authorize, by resolution, the
number, duties and compensation of employees not otherwise provided for by
state or the city code;
   (G)   Records. The Council shall maintain records of its proceedings; and
   (H)   Setting compensation for elected officers. By ordinance, the Council
shall prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members and other
elected city officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor shall not
become effective during the term in which the increase is adopted, and the
Council shall not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any
elected officer during the months of November and December immediately
following a regular city election. A change in the compensation of Council
members shall become effective for all Council members at the beginning of the
term of the Council members elected at the election next following the adoption
of the increase in compensation.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 3, § 2) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-3-17 EXERCISE OF POWER.
   The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of motion, a
resolution, an amendment or an ordinance in the following manner:
   (A)   Approved action by Council. Passage of an ordinance, amendment or
resolution requires an affirmative vote of not more than a majority of the
Council members. Each Council member’s vote on an ordinance, amendment or
resolution must be recorded;
   (B)   Over-riding Mayor’s veto. Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may re-pass the ordinance or resolution by a vote of not less than two-
thirds of the Council members, and the ordinance or resolution becomes
effective upon repassage and publication; and
   (C)   Measures become effective. Measures passed by the Council, other than
motions, become effective in one of the following ways:
      (1)   If the Mayor signs the measure, a resolution becomes effective
immediately upon signing and an ordinance or amendment becomes a law when
published, unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the measure;
      (2)   If the Mayor vetoes a measure and the Council re-passes the measure
after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes effective immediately upon
repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a law when published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the measure; and/or
      (3)   If the Mayor takes no action on the measure a resolution becomes
effective 14 days after the date of passage and an ordinance or amendment
becomes law when published, but not sooner than 14 days after the day of
passage, unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the measure.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 3, § 3) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-3-18 MEETINGS.
   Meetings of the Council shall be as follows.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regularly scheduled meetings of the City Council
shall be held at 6 p.m. on the first Tuesday of every month, except when the
date of a regularly scheduled meeting falls on the 1st or 2nd of the month,
then it shall be held at the same time on the first Thursday of the month. The
place of formal meetings shall be in the City Hall unless the Council, by
formal action previous to a meeting, designates another publicly accessible
place giving appropriate public notice twenty-four (24) hours in advance,
except with good cause as established in the minutes of the meeting.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special (Called) Meetings: Special (called) meetings
of the City Council shall be held for business of the council that cannot wait
until the next scheduled meeting. Special (called) meetings of the City Council
may be held on the call of the Mayor or a majority of the members of the
Council upon service of twenty-four (24) hours written notice of the date,
time, place and subject of the meeting on the Mayor and every member of the
Council unless such written notice is waived by each member. Attendance at the
special meeting shall be conclusively presumed to constitute a waiver of the
written notice and less than 24 hours’ notice may be given with good cause as
established by the minutes of the meeting. Service on the written notice on the
Mayor or members of the Council shall be considered complete upon delivery of
the same to his or her residence and leaving it in a conspicuous or designated
place regardless of actual personal receipt. Said special (called) meetings may
only cover topics related to the specific purpose of why the meeting was
called.
   (C)   Quorum. A majority of all Council members is a quorum.
   (D)   Rules of procedure. The Council shall determine the rules of its own
proceedings by resolution and the Clerk shall keep such rules on file for
public inspection.
   (E)   Compelling attendance. Any three members of the Council can compel the
attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned or duly called
meeting, by serving a written notice upon the
absent members to attend at once.
   (F)   Notice of meetings. The Council shall give reasonable notice of the
time, date and place of each meeting and its tentative agenda.
   (G)   Meetings open. All meetings shall be held in open session unless
closed sessions are held as expressly permitted by state law.
   (H)   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time
and place, the members present and the action taken at each meeting. The
minutes shall show the results of each vote taken and the vote of each member
present shall be made public.
   (I)   Closed session. A closed session may be held only by affirmative vote
of either two-thirds of the Council or all of the members present at the
meeting and in accordance with Iowa Code Ch. 28A.
   (J)   Cameras and recorders. The public may use cameras or recording devices
at any open session.
   (K)   Electronic meetings. A meeting may be conducted by electronic means
only in circumstances where such a meeting in person is impossible or
impractical and then only in compliance with the provisions of Iowa Code Ch.
28A.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 3, § 4) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985; Ord. passed 2-3-2022;
Ord. passed 7-5-2023)
§ 1-3-19 APPOINTMENTS.
   The Council shall appoint the City Attorney, City Clerk, and Treasurer, as
provided herein.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 3, § 5) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-3-20 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The City Council members shall be compensated in the amount of fifty
dollars ($50) for each regularly City Council meeting attended and each special
(called) City Council meeting attended.
   (B)   The City Council Members shall be compensated in the amount of twenty-
five dollars ($25) for each meeting any City Council member is appearing or
functioning as a representative of the City and any other meeting, event, or
function which the City Council has directed or authorized the City Council
member to attend either prior to or after the meeting, event, or function has
occurred.
   (C)   City Council members shall also receive reimbursement for expenses
related to attendance at said additional meetings as well as any other
functions which they are authorized to attend on behalf of the City, including
mileage costs at the then applicable IRS rate.
   (D)   In addition to that compensation listed in this section, City Council
members shall receive as compensation for attendance at workshops, seminars, or
conventions one hundred dollars ($100) for each day of attendance or fifty
dollars ($50) for each half day of attendance, plus reimbursement for expenses
related to attendance, including mileage costs at the then applicable IRS rate.
Written claims for all additional compensation and related expenses shall be
submitted to the City Clerk.
   (E)   City Council Members shall submit written claims to the City Clerk for
compensation and for reimbursement expenses. The claims shall be approved by
the City Council at a regularly scheduled meeting held after submission of the
claim.
   (F)   City Council Members SHALL NOT submit written claims for compensation
and/or for reimbursement expenses if said member is receiving or will receive
compensation from any other entity or organization for the same event, meeting,
or function. (Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 3, § 6) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985; Ord.
passed 2- -2014; Ord. passed 7-5-2022)
CONSENT AGENDA
§ 1-3-35 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to replace the current agenda used for
City Council meetings with a consent agenda.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2014)
§ 1-3-36 DEFINITION.
   A CONSENT AGENDA, sometimes called a CONSENT CALENDAR, is a component of a
meeting agenda that enables the Council to group routine items and resolutions
under one umbrella.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2014)
§ 1-3-37 COMPONENT OF CONSENT AGENDA.
   (A)   Routine, standard, non-controversial and self-explanatory are
adjectives that well describe consent agenda items.
   (B)   The following are some examples:
      (1)   Committee and previous board meeting minutes;
      (2)   Office reports;
      (3)   Routine correspondence;
      (4)   Minor changes in a procedure;
      (5)   Routine revisions of a policy (changes in dates or dollar amounts
due to changes in laws);
      (6)   Updating documents (address change for the main office);
      (7)   Standard contracts that are used regularly (confirmation of using
the traditional in-house contract with a new vendor); and
      (8)   Confirmation of conventional actions that are required in the
bylaws (signatory authority for a bank account or acceptance of gifts).
(Ord. passed 12-4-2014)
CHAPTER 4: CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Appointment and Qualification
1-4-1   Purpose
1-4-2   Creation of appointive officers
1-4-3   Appointment of officers
1-4-4   Terms of appointive officers
1-4-5   Vacancies in office
1-4-6   Bonds required
1-4-7   Surety
1-4-8   Surety bonds
1-4-9   Bonds filed
Nomination Methods for Elective Offices
1-4-20   Purpose
1-4-21   Method
Run-Off Elections in Lieu of Primary Elections
1-4-35   Purpose
1-4-36   State law provisions adopted
1-4-37   Regular municipal elections
1-4-38   When required
1-4-39   Publication of ballot
1-4-40   Run-off election
Cross-reference:
   Council Members, see §§
1-3-15 through
1-3-20
   Form of Government, see §§
1-2-1 through
1-2-7
   Mayor, see §§
1-3-1 through
1-3-4
   Public Places for Public Postings, see §§
1-7-1 through
1-7-3
   Retention of Records, §§
1-6-1 and
1-6-2
   Specific City Officers and Personnel, see §§
1-5-1 through
1-5-8
APPOINTMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS
§ 1-4-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the appointment and
qualification, including the posting of proper bond, and the filing of
vacancies, of the appointed municipal officers of the city.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 6, § 1) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-4-2 CREATION OF APPOINTIVE OFFICERS.
   There are hereby created the following appointive officers:
   (A)   City Attorney;
   (B)   City Clerk;
   (C)   Treasurer;(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 6, § 2) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-4-3 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint officers named in §
1-4-2 of this chapter with the approval of the Council.
   (B)   All other officers shall be appointed or selected by the Council
unless otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 6, § 3) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-4-4 TERMS OF APPOINTIVE OFFICERS.
   The terms of all appointive officers that are not otherwise fixed by law
ordinance shall be two years.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 6, § 4) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-4-5 VACANCIES IN OFFICE.
   (A)   A vacancy in an appointive office shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment.
   (B)   A vacancy in an elective office shall be filled by a majority vote of
all members of the Council.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 6, § 5) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-4-6 BONDS REQUIRED.
   Each municipal officer required by law or ordinance to be bonded shall,
before entering upon the duties of the office, execute to the city a good and
sufficient bond, to be approved by the Mayor, conditioned on the faithful
performance of the duties and the proper handling and accounting for the money
and property of the city in the officers charge.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 6, § 6) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-4-7 SURETY.
   Any association or corporation which makes a business of insuring the
fidelity of others which has authority to do such business within the state
shall be accepted as surety on any of the bonds.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 6, § 7) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-4-8 SURETY BONDS.
   (A)   Each officer named shall be bonded in the amount shown:
      (1)   Mayor: $5,000;
      (2)   Clerk: $5,000; and
      (3)   Treasurer: $5,000.
   (B)   In addition, the foregoing officers shall be entitled to reimbursement
for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 6, § 8) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-4-9 BONDS FILED.
   All bonds when duly executed shall be filed with the Clerk.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 6, § 9) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
NOMINATION METHODS FOR ELECTIVE OFFICES
§ 1-4-20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to designate the methods by which
candidates for elective municipal office in the city shall be nominated.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 1, § 1) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-4-21 METHOD.
   For the 1985 municipal election, and in subsequent municipal elections of
the city, all candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated by
the procedures set forth in Iowa Code Ch. 45. The method prescribed herein for
nominating candidates shall remain in effect until or unless changed by
ordinance.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 1, § 2) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
RUN-OFF ELECTIONS IN LIEU OF PRIMARY ELECTIONS
§ 1-4-35 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to adopt the alternative of using a run-
off election in lieu of a primary election for the choosing of persons for
elective municipal offices and prescribing the procedures to be followed
therein.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 14, § 1) (Ord. passed 8-6-1985)
§ 1-4-36 STATE LAW PROVISIONS ADOPTED.
   The provisions of Iowa Code § 376.9, providing for a run-off election, are
hereby adopted in lieu of the requirements for a primary in Iowa Code §§ 376.6
and 376.7.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 14, § 2) (Ord. passed 8-6-1985)
§ 1-4-37 REGULAR MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   Within 24 hours following the fortieth day prior to the municipal election,
the Clerk shall forward the petitions of all candidates that have been properly
filed with the Clerk, to the County Commissioners of Elections, who shall then
do all things necessary for conducting the municipal election.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 14, § 3) (Ord. passed 8-6-1985)
§ 1-4-38 WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each candidate at a municipal election receiving a majority of all
votes cast for the office sought shall be declared elected. A run-off election
shall be held only for positions unfilled because of failure of a sufficient
number of candidates to receive a majority vote in the regular city election.
   (B)   Candidates who do not receive a majority of the votes cast for the
office for which they have filed, shall be resubmitted to the voters as
follows:
      (1)   If no candidate for a single office receives a majority of the
votes cast for that office, the two candidates receiving the largest number of
votes shall be placed upon the run-off ballot; and
      (2)   If any of the top candidates, in an at-large contest, to the number
of positions to be filled receive less that a majority of the votes cast at the
election, those candidates receiving a majority of the votes shall be declared
elected and those candidates receiving the next highest number of votes, but
not having a majority, to the number of twice the number of unfilled positions,
shall be placed on the run-off ballot.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 14, § 4) (Ord. passed 8-6-1985)
§ 1-4-39 PUBLICATION OF BALLOT.
   If there must be a run-off election, the Commissioner of Elections shall
cause to be published once in a newspaper or newspapers published within the
municipal corporation and of general circulation therein, or in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city if there are none published therein, in proper
form, the names of persons as they are to appear on the municipal run-off
ballot in a typical precinct, said publication to be not less than four days
before the run-off election.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 14, § 5) (Ord. passed 8-6-1985)
§ 1-4-40 RUN-OFF ELECTION.
   Any such run-off election shall be held two weeks after the regular
municipal election. The run-off election shall be conducted in the same manner
as provided by law for conduction municipal elections except that there shall
be no added voter registrations accepted for said election, but transfers may
be accepted until ten days before the election, as now provided under law.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 14, § 6) (Ord. passed 8-6-1985)
CHAPTER 5: SPECIFIC CITY OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
Section
1-5-1   City Clerk
1-5-2   City Treasurer
1-5-3   City Attorney
1-5-4   Volunteer Fire Department
§ 1-5-1 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Appointment of City Clerk. There is hereby created the office of City
Clerk, to be appointed by the City Council at the first meeting of January
following a regular city election, for a two-year term, commencing on that date
and continuing until a successor is appointed and qualified.
   (B)   Duties. The City Clerk shall have the following duties:
      (1)   Warrants. Draw all warrants for the city upon the vote of the
Council;
      (2)   Information on warrant. Show on every warrant the fund on which it
is drawn and the claim to be paid;
      (3)   Warrant book. Keep a warrant book, bound with a marginal back, on
which margin he or she shall keep a record of the number, date, amount, payee’s
name, upon what fund drawn and for what claim each warrant is issued. Whenever
a warrant is delivered to the payee by mail, the Clerk shall note this fact on
the margin of the warrant book with the date of mailing and initial the
notation;
      (4)   Account officer. Be the chief account officer of the city;
      (5)   Separate accounts. Keep separate accounts for every appropriation,
fund, public improvement or undertaking; each account will be kept in the
manner provided by law;
      (6)   Monthly report to the Council. Report to the Council at its first
meeting each month the state of each municipal account as of the end of the
previous month;
      (7)   Balance accounts with Treasurer. Balance all accounts with the
Treasurer at the end of each month;
      (8)   Annual public report. Prepare the annual public report, publish it
and send a certified copy to the State Auditor as provided by law;
      (9)   Custody of records. Have custody and be responsible for the
safekeeping of all writings or documents in which the municipality is a party
in interest unless otherwise specifically directed by law or ordinance;
      (10)   Duty to file and preserve records. File and preserve all receipts,
vouchers and other documents kept, or that may be required to be kept,
necessary to prove the validity of every transaction and the identity of every
person having any beneficial relation thereto;
      (11)   Duty to furnish copy of records. Furnish upon request to any
municipal officer a copy of any record, paper or public documents under his or
her control when it may be necessary to such officer in the discharge of his or
her duty. He or she shall furnish a copy to any citizen when requested upon
payment of $0.50, but if the copy contains more than 500 words, an additional
$0.10 will be charged for every 100 words or fraction over 500 words;
      (12)   Corporate seal. Under the direction of the Mayor or authorized
officer, affix the seal of the corporation to those public documents or
instruments which by law or ordinance are required to be attested by the
affixing of the seal;
      (13)   Proceedings at meetings. Attend all meetings of the City Council,
committees, boards and commissioners of the city. He or she shall record and
preserve a correct record of the proceedings of such meetings;
      (14)   Publication. Publish as directed and required by law all
ordinances or resolutions of the municipality;
      (15)   Budget. Prepare the annual budget, under the supervision of the
City Council;
      (16)   Communications and petitions. Keep and file by number and date all
communications, and petitions directed to the city councilor to the city
generally. He or she shall endorse thereon the action of the City Council taken
upon matters considered in such communications and petitions;
      (17)   Issue licenses and permits. Issue all licenses and permits issued
in a book which shall show date of issuance, license or permit number, number
of Treasurer’s receipt, name of person to whom issued, term of license or
permit and purpose for which issued;
      (18)   Ordinances, resolutions; publications. Keep a record, indexed
properly, of all resolutions, ordinances and other measures passed by the City
Council which are required by law to be recorded. Such record shall contain
date of passage, date of approval and, if publication is required, the date of
publication;
      (19)   Authentication of ordinances, resolutions and measures.
Authenticate all resolutions, ordinances and measures passed by the City
Council by signing the same;
      (20)   Notification of appointment. Inform all persons appointed by the
Mayor or City Council offices in the municipal government of their position and
the time at which they shall assume the duties of their office; and
      (21)   Record of elections. Compile and preserve a complete record of
every city election, regular or special, and perform duties required by law or
ordinance of the City Clerk in regard to elections.
   (C)   Compensation. Such compensation shall be paid as specified by Council
resolution.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 4) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-5-2 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   Appointment of City Treasurer. There is hereby created the office of
City Treasurer, to be appointed by the City Council at the first meeting of
January following a regular city election, for a two-year term, commencing on
that date and continuing until a successor is appointed and qualified.
   (B)   Duties. The City Treasurer shall have the following duties:
      (1)   Funds separate. Keep separate accounts for every appropriation,
department, public improvement or undertaking, in the manner approved by law;
      (2)   Receipts. Keep an accurate account of all cash, investments,
accounts receivable and property received by, due to or in the custody of the
city and to give a receipt in triplicate immediately upon cash being received
by the city specifying the date from whom, for what account and record each
transaction in the correct fund as required by law, and Council commitments,
and property disposed of or sold by the city, specifying the date and to whom
paid and record each transaction in the correct fund as required by law and
Council direction where not specified by law;
      (3)   Special assessments. Keep a separate account of all money received
from special assessments which shows from whom the amount is received, date
received, for what purpose and on what lot or parcel of land the amount is
paid; and
      (4)   Deposits. Immediately upon receipt of moneys to be held in custody
and belonging to the city, deposit the same un bonds selected by City Council
in amounts not exceeding monetary limits authorized by the Council.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 5) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-5-3 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for the appointment
and qualification of the office of City Attorney.
   (B)   Duties. The powers and duties of the City Attorney are as follows:
      (1)   Location of office. Locate this office in a place provided by the
city or establish the office in a location central to the general governmental
activities of the municipality. The City Attorney should furnish their own
office;
      (2)   Attend meetings. Attend meetings as requested by Council;
      (3)   Legal documents. Upon request formulate drafts for contracts, forms
and other writings which may be required for the use of the city;
      (4)   Records. Keep in proper files a record of all official opinions and
a docket or register of all actions prosecuted and defended by the City
Attorney accompanied by all proceedings relating to said actions;
      (5)   Opinions. Upon request give his or her opinion in writing upon all
questions of law relating to municipal matters submitted by the City Council,
the Mayor, members of the City Council individually, municipal boards or the
head of any municipal department;
      (6)   Prepare ordinances. Prepare those ordinances which the City Council
may desire and direct to be prepared and report in writing to the Council upon
all ordinances before their final passage by the City Council and publication;
      (7)   Prosecute and defend. Act as attorney for the city in all matters
affecting the city’s interest and appear on behalf of the city before any
court, tribunal, commission or board. He or she shall prosecute or defend all
actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or City Council;
      (8)   Bonds and papers. Sign the name of the city to all appeal bonds and
to all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the
prosecuting of any cause in court and, when so signed, the city shall be bound
upon the same;
      (9)   Restriction upon appearances. Not appear on behalf of any municipal
officer or employee before any court or tribunal for the private benefit of
said officer or employee;
      (10)   Report defects. Make a written report to the City Council and
interested department heads of the defects in all contracts, documents,
authorized power of any city officer and ordinances submitted to him or her or
coming under his or her notice;
      (11)   Examination of contracts. After, due examination, offer a written
opinion on and recommend alterations pertaining to contracts involving the city
before they become binding upon the city.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 7) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 1-5-4 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for the appointment
and qualifications of the Volunteer Fire Department.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The powers and duties of the Volunteer Fire
Department are as follows:
      (1)   Establishment and purpose. A Volunteer Fire Department is hereby
established to prevent and extinguish fires and to protect lives and property
against fires, to promote fire prevention and fire safety and to answer all
emergency calls for which there is no other established agency;
      (2)   Volunteer firefighter. Fifteen residents of the city of sound mind
and body and of legal age shall be appointed to serve as volunteer
firefighters;
      (3)   Firefighter’s duties. When called by the city, all firefighters
shall report for duty immediately, in the manner directed by the city. They
shall be subject to call at any time. They shall obey strictly the commands of
any other firefighter who has been appointed by the city in advance if they
expect to be absent from the city for 12 hours or more. Firefighters shall
report for training as ordered by the city;
      (4)   Worker’s compensation and hospitalization insurance. The Council
shall contract to insure the city against liability for workers’ compensation
and against statutory liability for the costs of hospitalization, nursing and
medical attention for volunteer firefighters injured in the performance of
their duties as firefighters. All volunteer firefighters shall be covered by
the contract;
      (7)   Liability insurance. The Council shall contract to insure against
liability of the city or members of the Department for injuries, death or
property damage arising out of and resulting from the performance of
Departmental duties; and
      (8)   Fires outside city limits. The Department shall answer calls to
fires and other emergencies outside the city limits if the city determines that
such emergency exists and that such action will not endanger persons and
property within the city limits.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 12) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
CHAPTER 6: RETENTION OF RECORDS
Section
1-6-1   Purpose
1-6-2   Retention guidelines
§ 1-6-1 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for municipal regulation of
the retention and disposal of city records and to adhere to Iowa Code § 372.13
(5) as stated in division (B) below.
   (B)   The Council shall determine its own rules and maintain records of its
proceedings. City records and documents, or accurate reproductions, shall be
kept for at least five years except that:
      (1)   Ordinances, resolutions, council proceedings, records and
documents, or accurate reproductions, relating to the issuance of public bonds
or obligations shall be kept for at least eleven years following the final
maturity of the bonds or obligations. Thereafter, such records, documents, and
reproductions may be destroyed, preserving confidentiality as necessary.
Records and documents pertaining to the transfer of ownership of bonds shall be
kept as provided in Iowa Code § 76.10.
      (2)   Ordinances, resolutions, council proceedings, records and
documents, or accurate reproductions, relating to real property transactions
shall be maintained permanently.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § 1) (Ord. 31, passed - -)
§ 1-6-2 RETENTION GUIDELINES.
   The Council follows the League of Cities guidelines, as stated in its book
Record Retention Manual for Cities, 2008. A sampling of those guidelines are
listed below.
Schedule II: Financial Records
Record Title Retention Period Reason
Schedule II: Financial Records
Record Title                                                                        Retention Period    Reason
I.   Revenue                                                                                         
   A.   Notice of property tax allocation from county                         10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
   B.   Notice of liquor tax allocation from state                            10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
   D.   Federal revenue sharing records (EP11, statement of assurances that city                  Fiscal value
will follow rules; ORS Form 3233 plus a letter describing data used to determine    10 years            ends
allocation; and OMB Form 48-R0506, Actual Use Report)
   E.    Investments (Notice of interest earned or reports of growth, dividend10 years            Fiscal value
purchase, sale, etc.)                                                                                   ends
   F.   Parking revenue                                                       10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
   G.   Road Use Tax Fund records                                             10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
      1. Application for financial aid                                        10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
      2. Annual street finance report                                         10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
      3. Street construction program                                          10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
                                                                                                        Continuing
      4. Arterial street maps                                              10 years            historical
                                                                                                        value
   H.   Claims for refunds of state sales tax                                 10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
   I.   Claims for refunds of state fuel tax                                  10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
   J.   Special assessments                                                                       
                                                                                                        Fiscal and
      1. Certified mail stubs from notice to property owners                  10 years            legal value
                                                                                                        ends
                                                                                                        Fiscal and
      2. Assessment title searches                                         10 years            legal value
                                                                                                        ends
                                                                                    10 years after      Fiscal and
      3. Preliminary and final assessment schedules                        final payment       legal value
                                                                                                        ends
                                                                                    10 years after      Fiscal and
      4. Petition and waiver (agreements to special assessments)              final payment       legal value
                                                                                                        ends
                                                                                    10 years after      Fiscal and
      5. Assessment plats                                                     final payment       legal value
                                                                                                        ends
                                                                                    10 years after      Fiscal and
      6. Certificate of levy of final assessment                              final payment       legal value
                                                                                                        ends
   K.    Bond issues and proceedings                                                              
      1. Bond certificates                                                    10 years after      Fiscal value
                                                                                    final recall        ends
      2. Redeemed coupons                                                  10 years after      Fiscal value
                                                                                    final recall        ends
                                                                                                        Administrative,
      3. Bond register                                                     Iowa Code § 372.13 legal and
                                                                                    (5)                 historical
                                                                                                        value
                                                                                                        Continuing
                                                                                                        fiscal,
      4. Proceedings (notice and call of public meeting, minutes and certificaIowa Code § 372.13 administrative,
referendum, legal opinions)                                                         (5)                 legal and
                                                                                                        historical
                                                                                                        value
      5. Remittance advice received with payments                             10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
   L.   Records of federally funded public improvement projects               10 years after      Fiscal value
                                                                                    final payment       ends
II.   Accounting                                                                                     
   A.   Source documents                                                                          
      1. Accounts payable                                                                         
         a. Requisitions                                                10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
         b. Purchase orders                                                10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
         c. Invoices, statements, bills                                    10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
         d. Claims presented to council                                    10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
         e. Check/warrant copies or stubs                                  10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
         f. Vendor ledger cards                                            10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
      2. Accounts receivable                                                  10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
         a. Receipt copies or books                                        10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
         b. Daily cash receipt tabulations (cash register tapes, validator 10 years            Fiscal value
etc.)                                                                                                   ends
         c. Invoices, statements, bills                                    10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
   B.   Books of original entry                                                                   
      1. Receipt journal (register)                                           10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
      2. Disbursement journal (register)                                      10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
      3. General journal                                                      10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
      4. Appropriations journal (where maintained)                            10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
   C.   Ledgers                                                                                   
      1. General ledger                                                       Permanent           Continuing
                                                                                                        fiscal value
      2. Subsidiary revenue ledger cards                                      10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
      3. Subsidiary appropriation/expenditure cards                           10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
III.   Banking                                                                                       
   A.   Checking account statements                                           10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
   B.   Check/warrant register                                                10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
   C.   Cancelled checks/warrants                                             10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
   D.   Savings account statements                                            10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
   E.   Reconciliation worksheets                                             10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
IV.   Financial reports                                                                              
   A.   Annual Financial report                                            Permanent           Continuing
                                                                                                        fiscal value
   B.   Treasurer’s and/or clerk’s report                                 10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
                                                                                                        Statute of
   C.   Sales tax and use tax                                                 10 years            limitations on
                                                                                                        audits
                                                                                    10 years after
                                                                                    audit; 10 years if  Fiscal value
   D.   Grant reports                                                         not audited; grant  ends
                                                                                    terms if not stated
                                                                                    therein
                                                                                                        Continuing
V.   Audits                                                                      Permanent           fiscal and
                                                                                                        historical
                                                                                                        value
VI.   Budget                                                                                         
   A.   Appropriation requests from departments                               10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
   B.   Annual budget forms                                                   10 years            Fiscal value
                                                                                                        ends
                                                                                                        Continuing
   C.   Final budget and certificate summary 2 copies                         Permanent           fiscal and
                                                                                                        historical
                                                                                                        value
                                                                                                        Continuing
   D.   Budget amendments 2 copies                                            Permanent           fiscal and
                                                                                                        historical
                                                                                                        value
 
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § 2) (Ord. 31, passed - -)
CHAPTER 7: PUBLIC PLACES FOR PUBLIC POSTINGS
Section
1-7-1   Purpose
1-7-2   Listing; length of notice
1-7-3   Removing notice prohibited
§ 1-7-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to update the three public places where
ordinances or amendments are to be displayed.
(Prior Code, Art. 2, Ch. 3, § 1) (Ord. passed 7-3-2012; Ord. passed 1-4-2018)
§ 1-7-2 LISTING; LENGTH OF NOTICE.
   The three public places where ordinances or amendments are to be displayed
are:
   (A)   The front window of the City Hall;
   (B)   The lobby of the U.S. Post Office in the city; and
   (C)   The store Beacon Antiques.
(Prior Code, Art. 2, Ch. 3, § 2) (Ord. passed 7-3-2012; Ord. passed 1-4-2018)
§
1-7-3 REMOVING NOTICE PROHIBITED.
   Removal of a public notice of an ordinance or amendment by persons other
than the Clerk shall make such persons subject to a fine not in excess of $100.
Such removal before the ten days have expired, however, shall not affect the
validity of the ordinance or amendment.
(Prior Code, Art. 2, Ch. 3, § 3) (Ord. passed 7-3-2012)
CHAPTER 8: E-MAIL POLICY
Section
1-8-1   Purpose
1-8-2   Policy
1-8-3   Procedure; notification
§ 1-8-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide guidance for acceptable use for
electronic mail to city employees.
(Ord. passed - -2013)
§
1-8-2 POLICY.
   (A)   Any computer of LAN/WAN Network resource provided for use by city
employees, contractors and consultants is city property and all uses of these
city resources are a matter of city record.
   (B)   The e-mail function, like any city resource, must be used for official
business only. Toward that end, the city reserves the right to designate person
(s), position(s) and/or committee(s), which have authority to monitor all
electronic mail systems and mail. Distribution resources to ensure that the e-
mail system is being used for its intended purpose.
   (C)   City elected officials and department heads maintain the right to
invoke discipline if the e-mail system is misused. Any e-mail message found to
contain discriminatory remarks based upon a person’s race, creed, color,
national origin, gender, disability, marital status, appearance, sexual
orientation, age or forgery or attempt to forge e-mail document(s) will subject
the sender and or author to discipline consistent with any applicable labor
agreement or policy up to and including revocation of system usage right and
privileges.
   (D)   When critical e-mail is sent, users should verify the receipt of the
e-mail by contacting the recipient to verify the e-mail was received. When
critical e-mail is expected, users should verify with the sender that the email
was sent.
(Ord. passed - -2013)
§
1-8-3 PROCEDURE; NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to require any employee, contractor or
consultant who has access to, or is required to use electronic mail services
(hereinafter called “e-mail”) provided by the city, to read, sign and abide by
this chapter.
   (B)   Employees will be notified by e-mail through elected officials and
department heads when changes to this policy are made. It is the responsibility
of each employee to review and adhere to this policy.
(Ord. passed - -2013)
TITLE 2: BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
1.   CIGARETTE SALES AND REGULATION
      
2.   BEER AND LIQUOR SALES AND REGULATION
      
3.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 1: CIGARETTE SALES AND REGULATION
Section
2-1-1   Definitions
2-1-2   Permit required
2-1-3   Issuance
2-1-4   Expiration
2-1-5   Fees
2-1-6   Refunds
2-1-7   Revocation
2-1-8   Permits not transferable
2-1-9   Display
2-1-10   Penalty
§ 2-1-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIGARETTE.
      (1)   Any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of tobacco,
irrespective of size or shape, and irrespective of being flavored, adulterated
or mixed with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper or cover made
of paper or any other material. It also shall mean cigarette papers, wrappers
and tubes. It shall further include cigarillos; provided, their weight does not
exceed three pounds per thousand.
      (2)   However, this definition shall not be construed to include cigars.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any building or structure in which cigarettes are sold,
or are kept for the purpose of sale, by a retailer.
   RETAILER. Every individual, firm, corporation or other association that
sells, distributes or offers for sale for consumption, or possesses the purpose
of sale for consumption, cigarettes, irrespective of the quantity or amount or
the number of sales.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 1, § 1) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-1-2 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No retailer shall distribute, sell or solicit the sale of any cigarettes
within the city without a valid permit for each place of business. The permit
shall be displayed publicly in the place of business so that it can be seen
easily by the public.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 1, § 2) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-1-3 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Council shall issue or renew a permit, upon a determination that
such issuance or renewal will not be detrimental to the public health, safety
or morals when a retailer who is not a minor has filed with the City Clerk:
      (1)   A completed application on forms provided by the state’s Department
of Revenue and accompanied by the fee provided in §
2-1-5 of this chapter; and
      (2)   A bond in the amount of $500 on forms provided by the state’s
Department of Revenue and surety approved by the Council. The bond shall be in
favor of the state for the benefit of the city, conditioned upon payment of any
taxes, damages, fines, penalties and costs adjudged against the permit holder
for violation of any of the provisions of Iowa state law.
   (B)   The Council shall certify its action in issuing a permit to the
state’s Department of Revenue.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 1, § 3) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-1-4 EXPIRATION.
   Permits expire on June 30 of each year.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 1, § 4) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-1-5 FEES.
   (A)   The fee for permits issued or renewed in July, August or September is
$500. The fee for permits issued in October, November or December is $37.50; in
January, February or March, the fee is $25; and, in April, May or June, the fee
is $12.50.
   (B)   Upon issuance of the permit by the Council, the Clerk shall forward
the fee to the City Treasurer.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 1, § 5) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-1-6 REFUNDS.
   A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit in July, August or September
for a refund of $37.50; in October, November or December for $25; or in
January, February or March for $12.50.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 1, § 6) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-1-7 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council, after notice and hearing, shall revoke a permit if it
finds the retailer has substantially violated the provisions of this chapter or
Iowa state law or if grounds exist that would be sufficient for refusal to
issue such a permit. The City Clerk shall give five days’ written notice to the
retailer by mailing a copy of the notice by certified mail to the place of
business as it appears on his or her application for a permit. The notice shall
state the reason for the contemplated revocation and the time and place at
which he or she may appear and be heard. The hearing shall be held at the
regular meeting place of the Council.
   (B)   Upon revocation, no new permit shall be issued to the retailer or for
the place of business for one year from the date of revocation unless good
cause to the contrary is shown the Council.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 1, § 7) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-1-8 PERMITS NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   A permit shall not be transferable to another place of business or retailer.
However, if a retailer who holds a valid permit changes his or her place of
business, the Council, if it decides to issue a new permit to him or her, shall
not charge any additional fee for the unexpired term of the original permit if
the retailer has not received a refund for surrender of the original permit.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 1, § 8) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-1-9 DISPLAY.
   The permit shall be displayed publicly in the place of business so that it
can be seen easily by the public.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 1, § 9) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-1-10 PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $100.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 1, § 10) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
CHAPTER 2: BEER AND LIQUOR SALES AND REGULATION
Section
General Provisions
2-2-1   Purpose
2-2-2   Definitions
2-2-3   Prohibited sales and acts
2-2-4   Beer brand signs prohibited
2-2-5   Consumption in public places; intoxication
2-2-6   Persons under legal age
2-2-7   Penalties
Licensing and Conditions
2-2-20   Permit eligibility; conditions for approval
2-2-21   Beer permits; classes
2-2-22   Liquor licenses; classes
2-2-23   Prohibited interest
2-2-24   Separate locations
2-2-25   Application; investigation
2-2-26   Application for renewal
2-2-27   Civil liability
2-2-28   License and permit fees
2-2-29   Nature of license or permit
2-2-30   Action by Council
2-2-31   Expiration of license or permit
2-2-32   Refunds
2-2-33   Transfers
2-2-34   Suspension and revocation; effect
2-2-35   Appeal and hearing
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 2-2-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide administration of licenses and
permits and for local regulations and procedures for the conduct of the sale
and consumption of beer and liquor, for the protection of the safety, morals
and general welfare of the community.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 1) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-2-2 DEFINITIONS.
   Where words and phrases used in this chapter are defined by state law, such
definitions shall apply to their use in this chapter and are adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, shall have the following
meanings.
   CLUB. Any non-profit corporation or association of individuals, which is the
owner, lessee or occupant of a permanent building or part thereof, membership
in which entails the prepayment of regular dues and is not operated for a
profit other than such profits as would accrue to the entire membership.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. A place of business which is at all times equipped
with sufficient tables and seats to accommodate 25 persons at one time, and the
licensed premises of which conform to the ordinances of the city.
   GROCERY STORE. Any retail establishment, the business of which consists of
the sale of food products or beverages for consumption off the premises.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A premises licensed by the state’s Department of Agriculture
and regularly or seasonally kept open in a bona fide manner for the lodging of
transient guests and with 20 or more sleeping rooms.
   LEGAL AGE. Eighteen years of age or more.
   PERSON OF GOOD MORAL CHARACTER. Any person who meets all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   He or she has such financial standing and good reputation as will
satisfy the City Council and the Director that he or she will comply with the
state’s Beer and Liquor Control Act and all other laws, ordinances and
regulations applicable to his or her operations under state law;
      (2)   He or she does not possess a federal gambling stamp;
      (3)   He or she is not prohibited by the provisions of §
2-2-34(B) of this chapter from obtaining a liquor license or beer permit;
      (4)   He or she is a citizen of the United States and a resident of Iowa
or licensed to do business in Iowa in the case of a corporation;
      (5)   He or she has not been convicted of a felony. However, if his or
her conviction of a felony occurred more than five years before the application
for a license or permit, and if his or her rights of citizenship have been
restored by the Governor, the Director may determine that he or she is a person
of good moral character notwithstanding such conviction; and
      (6)   If such person is a corporation, partnership, association, club or
hotel or motel the requirements of this division (6) shall apply to each of the
officers, directors and partners of such person, and to any person who directly
or indirectly owns or controls 10% or more of any class of stock of such person
or has an interest of 10% or more in the ownership or profits of such person.
For the purpose of this division (6), an individual and his or her spouse shall
be regarded as one PERSON.
   PHARMACY. A drug store in which drugs and medicines are exposed for sale and
sold at retail, or in which prescriptions of licensed physicians and surgeons,
dentists or veterinarians are compounded and sold by a registered pharmacist.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 2) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-2-3 PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
   No person or club holding a liquor license or beer permit, nor his or her
agents or employees, shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Sell, dispense or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic liquor or beer;
   (B)   Sell or dispense any alcoholic liquor or beer on the premises covered
by the license or permit, or permit the consumption thereon between the hours
of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any weekday, and between the hours of 1:00 a.m.
on Sunday and 6:00 a.m. on the following Monday;
   (C)   Sell alcoholic liquor or beer to any person on credit, except with
bona fide credit card. This division (C) shall not apply to sales by a club to
its members, nor to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests;
   (D)   Employ any person under the age of 18 years old in the sale or serving
of alcoholic liquor or beer for consumption on the premises where sold. Persons
between the ages of 18 and 21 shall be allowed to serve or clear alcoholic
liquor or beer as an incident to a meal if the business of selling food or
other services constitutes more than 50% of the gross business of the licensee
or permittee;
   (E)   Sell, give or otherwise supply any alcoholic beverage or beer to any
person knowing or having reasonable cause to believe him or her to be under
legal age, or permit any person knowing or having reasonable cause to believe
him or her to be under legal age, to consume any alcoholic beverage or beer;
   (F)   In the case of a retail beer permittee, knowingly allow the mixing or
adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to beer or any other beverage in or
about his or her place of business; and/or
   (G)   Knowingly permit any gambling, gaming, solicitors for unusual purposes
or immoral or disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license or
permit.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 19) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-2-4 BEER BRAND SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   No signs or other matter advertising any brand of beer shall be erected or
placed upon the outside of any premises occupied by a licensee or permittee
authorized to sell beer at retail. All such signs formerly erected shall be
removed by the owner of same by 7-1-1974.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 20) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-2-5 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES; INTOXICATION.
   It is unlawful for any person to use or consume alcoholic liquors or beer
upon the public streets or highways, or alcoholic liquors in any public place,
except premises covered by a liquor control license, or to possess or consume
alcoholic liquors or beer on any public school property or while attending any
public or private school related functions, and no person shall be intoxicated,
nor simulate intoxication, in a public place. As used in this section, SCHOOL
means a school or that portion thereof which provides teaching for any grade
from kindergarten through grade 12. Any person violating any provisions of this
section shall be fined $100 or sentenced not to exceed 30 days’ imprisonment.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 24) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-2-6 PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
   No person shall sell, give or otherwise supply alcoholic liquor or beer to
any person knowing or having reasonable cause to believe him or her to be under
legal age, and no person or persons under legal age shall individually or
jointly have alcoholic liquor or beer in his, her or their possession or
control; except in the case of liquor or beer given or dispensed to a person
under legal age within a private home and with the knowledge and consent of the
parent or guardian for beverage or medicinal purposes or as administered to him
or her by either a physician or dentist for medicinal purposes and except to
the extent that a person under legal age may handle alcoholic beverages and
beer during the regular course of his or her employment by a liquor control
licensee or beer permittee under state laws.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 25) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-2-7 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine of not to exceed $100 or to imprisonment for not more than 30
days.
   (B)   The conviction of any liquor control licensee or beer permittee for a
violation of any of the provisions of §
2-2-3(A) to (F) of this chapter shall, subject to division (C) below, be
grounds for the suspension or revocation of the license or permit by the
department or the city. However, if any liquor control licensee is convicted of
any violation of §
2-2-3(B)(1), (B)(4) or (B)(5) of this chapter, or any beer permittee is
convicted of a violation of §
2-2-3(B)(1) of this chapter of the state’s beer permit shall be revoked and
shall immediately be surrendered by the holder and the bond of the license or
permit holder shall be forfeited to the Department of Beer and Liquor Control.
   (C)   If any licensee, beer permittee or employee of such licensee or
permittee shall be convicted of a violation of §
2-2-3(E) of this chapter, or a retail beer permittee shall be convicted of a
violation of §
2-2-3(F) of this chapter, the city shall, in addition to the other penalties
fixed for such violations by this section, assess a penalty as follows.
      (1)   Upon a first conviction, the violator’s liquor control license or
beer permit shall be suspended for a period of 14 days.
      (2)   Upon a second conviction within a period of two years, the
violator’s liquor control license or beer permit shall be suspended for a
period of 30 days.
      (3)   Upon a third conviction within a period of five years, the
violator’s liquor control license or beer permit shall be revoked.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 26) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
LICENSING AND CONDITIONS
§ 2-2-20 PERMIT ELIGIBILITY; CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   Eligibility for liquor control license or beer permit control license.
Upon meeting the requirements imposed by state law and the ordinances of the
city, a person who is of good moral character, as defined by state law and this
chapter, may apply for a liquor control license or a beer permit. In the case
of a club, corporation or partnership, the officers of the club or corporation
and the partners of a partnership shall be persons of good moral character, as
defined by state law and this chapter.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 3)
   (B)   Conditions for approval of license or permit; premises. An applicant
for a liquor control license or beer permit, as a further condition for
approval by the City Council, must give consent in writing on the application,
that members of the Fire, Police and Health Departments and the Building
Inspector may enter upon the premises without warrant to inspect for violations
of the provisions of state law and of this chapter.
      (1)   No liquor control license or beer permit shall be approved for
premises which do not conform to all applicable laws, ordinances, resolutions
and health and fire regulations.
      (2)   No licensee shall have or maintain any interior access to
residential or sleeping quarters unless permission is granted by the state’s
Beer and Liquor Control Director in the form of a living quarters permit.
      (3)   The premises for which a Class “B” beer permit shall allow the
holder to sell beer at retail for consumption on or off the premises. Sale on
premises must provide sufficient tables and seats to accommodate not less than
25 persons.
      (4)   No state liquor store shall be located within 300 feet of a public
or private educational institution unless a lesser distance is specifically
authorized by ordinance.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 4)
(Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-2-21 BEER PERMITS; CLASSES.
   Beer permits shall be classed as follows.
   (A)   Class “B”.
      (1)   A Class “B” beer permit shall allow the holder to sell beer at
retail for consumption on or off the premises.
      (2)   Sale on premises must provide sufficient tables and seats to
accommodate not less than 25 persons.
   (B)   Class “C”.
      (1)   A Class “C” beer permit shall allow the holder to sell beer at
retail for consumption off the premises only.
      (2)   Such sales shall be in original containers only.
      (3)   No Class “C” permit shall be issued to any persons, except the
owner or proprietor of a grocery store or pharmacy.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 5) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-2-22 LIQUOR LICENSES; CLASSES.
   Liquor control licenses shall be classed as follows.
   (A)   Class “A”. A Class “A” liquor control license issued to a club shall
authorize the holder to purchase alcoholic liquors from the Department only,
and to sell such liquors, and beer, to bona fide members and their guests by
the individual drink for consumption on the premises only.
   (B)   Class “B”. A Class “B” liquor control license issued to a hotel or
motel shall authorize the holder to purchase alcoholic liquors from the
Department only, and to sell such liquors, and beer, to patrons by the
individual drink for consumption on the premises only; however, beer may also
be sold for consumption off the premises. Each such license shall be effective
throughout the premises described in the application.
   (C)   Class “C”. A Class “C” liquor control license issued to a commercial
establishment must be issued in the name of the individual or individuals who
actually own the entire business and shall authorize the holder or holders to
purchase alcoholic liquors from the Department only, and to sell such liquors,
and beer to patrons by the individual drink for consumption on the premises
only; however, beer may also be sold for consumption off the premises.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 6) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-2-23 PROHIBITED INTEREST.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to be either directly or
indirectly interested in more than one class of beer permit.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 7) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-2-24 SEPARATE LOCATIONS.
   Every person holding a Class “B” or Class “C” permit having more than one
place of business where such beer is sold shall be required to have a separate
license for each separate place of business, except as otherwise prohibited by
state law.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 8) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-2-25 APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Contents; bond. A verified application for the original issuance or
the renewal of a liquor control license or a beer permit shall be filed at such
time, in such number of copies and in such form as the state’s Director of Beer
and Liquor Control shall prescribe, on forms prescribed by him or her. The
application shall be accompanied by the required fee and bond and be filed with
the City Council for approval or disapproval. The bond to be submitted shall be
in a form prescribed by the State Director and in the following amounts:
      (1)   With any liquor control license: $500 and conditioned upon the
payment of all taxes payable to the state under the provisions of the state’s
Beer and Liquor Control Act and compliance with all provisions of the Act; and
      (2)   With any beer permit: $500 and conditioned upon the faithful
observance of the state’s Beer and Liquor Control Act.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 9)
   (B)   Investigation of applicant. Upon receipt of an original application
for a liquor license or beer permit by the City Council, it shall be forwarded
to the Chief of Police, who shall conduct an investigation and shall submit a
written report on the applicant as to the truth of the facts averred in the
application and a recommendation to the City Council as to the approval of the
license or permit. It shall be the duty of the and the Building Inspector to
inspect the premises to determine if they conform to the requirements of the
city, and no license or permit shall be approved until or unless an approving
report has been filed with the City Council by such officers.(Prior Code, Art.
7, Ch. 2, § 10)
(Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-2-26 APPLICATION FOR RENEWAL.
   Upon receipt of an application for the renewal of a liquor license or beer
permit, it shall be forwarded to the Chief of Police only, who shall conduct an
investigation and shall submit a written report on the applicant as to the
truth of the facts answered in the application and a recommendation to the City
Council as to the approval of the license or permit.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 11) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-2-27 CIVIL LIABILITY.
   Every liquor control licensee and Class “B” beer permittee shall furnish
proof of financial responsibility either by the existence of a liability
insurance policy or by posting bond in such amount as determined by the
Department.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 12) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-2-28 LICENSE AND PERMIT FEES.
   The following fees shall be submitted with the respective application.
   (A)   For a Class “B” beer permit, the annual fee shall be $100.
   (B)   For a Class “C” beer permit, the annual fee shall be graduated on the
basis of the amount of interior floor space which comprises the retail sales
area of the premises covered by the permit, as follows:
      (1)   Up to 1,500 square feet: $75;
      (2)   Over 1,500 square feet and up to 2,000 square feet: $100;
      (3)   Over 2,000 and up to $5,000 square feet: $200; and
      (4)   Over 5,000 square feet: $300.
   (C)   For a Class “A” liquor control license, the annual fee shall be:
      (1)   Club: $400;
      (2)   Club, less than 250 members: $400; and
      (3)   Club which is a post, branch or chapter of a veterans organization
chartered by the Congress of the United States, if such club does not sell or
permit the consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises more than one day
in any week, and if the application for a license states that such club does
not and will not sell or permit the consumption of alcoholic beverages on the
premises more than one day in any week: $200.
   (D)   For a Class “B” liquor control license, the annual fee shall be $600.
   (E)   For a Class “C” liquor control license, the annual fee shall be $600.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 13) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-2-29 NATURE OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   This shall be a purely personal privilege and be revocable for cause. It
shall not constitute property nor be subject to attachment and execution, nor
be alienable nor assignable, and in any case it shall cease upon the death of
the permittee or licensee; however, the Director may, in his or her discretion,
allow the executor or administrator of a permittee or licensee to operate the
business of the decedent for a reasonable time not to exceed the expiration
date of the permit or license. Every permit or license shall be issued in the
name of the applicant and no person holding a permit or license shall allow any
other person to use same.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 14) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-2-30 ACTION BY COUNCIL.
   Action taken by the City Council shall be so endorsed on the application
and, thereafter, the application, fee and bond shall be forwarded to the
state’s Beer and Liquor Control Department for such further action as is
provided by law.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 15) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-2-31 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   All liquor control licenses and beer permits, unless sooner suspended or
revoked, shall expire one year from date of issuance. Also, 60 days’ notice of
such expiration must be given in writing by the Director. Six- or eight-month
seasonal licenses or beer permits may be issued for a proportionate part of the
license or permit fee. No seasonal license or permit shall be renewed, except
after a period of two months. Seasonal licensing shall be only as permitted by
state regulation.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 16) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-2-32 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Any such licensee or permittee, or his or her executor, administrator
or any person duly appointed by the court to take charge of and administer the
property or assets of the licensee or permittee for the benefit of his or her
creditors, may voluntarily surrender such license or permit to the Department
and shall notify the city, and the Department and the city, or the city by
itself in the case of a retail beer permit, shall refund to the person so
surrendering the license or permit a proportionate amount of the fee paid for
such license or permit as follows: if surrendered during the first three months
of the period for which said license or permit was issued, the refund shall be
three-fourths of the amount of the fee; if surrendered more than three months,
but not more than six months, after issuance, the refund shall be one-half of
the amount of the fee; if surrendered more than six months, but not more than
nine months, after issuance, the refund shall be one-fourth of the amount of
the fee.
   (B)   No refund shall be made, however, for a liquor control license or beer
permit surrendered more than nine months after issuance. No refund shall be
made to any licensee or permittee, upon the surrender of his or her license or
permit, if there is at the time of said surrender a complaint filed with the
Department or the city, charging him or her with a violation of this chapter or
provisions of the state’s Beer and Liquor Control Act. If, upon hearing on any
such complaint, the license or permit is not revoked or suspended, then the
licensee or permittee shall be eligible, upon surrender of his or her license
or permit, to receive a refund as herein provided. But, if his or her license
or permit is revoked or suspended upon such hearing, he or she shall not be
eligible for the refund of any portion of his or her license or permit fee. No
refund shall be made for seasonal licenses or permits.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 17) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-2-33 TRANSFERS.
   The Council will, in its discretion, authorize a licensee permittee to
transfer the license or permit from one location to another within the city;
provided that, the premises to which the transfer is to be made would have been
eligible for a license or permit in the first instance and such transfer will
not result in the violation of any law or ordinance. An applicant for such a
transfer shall file with the application for transfer the fee as set by the
Beer and Liquor Control Director for transfer. The fee shall be $15.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 18) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-2-34 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION; EFFECT.
   (A)   Following written notice and hearing, a liquor license or beer permit
may be suspended for a period up to one year for violations of this chapter, or
suspended for a period up to one year or revoked for any of the following
causes:
      (1)   Misrepresentation of any material fact in the application for such
license or permit;
      (2)   Violation of any of the provisions of the state’s Beer and Liquor
Control Act;
      (3)   Any change in the ownership or interest in the business operated
under a Class “A”, Class “B” or Class “C” liquor control license, or any beer
permit which change was not previously reported to and approved by the city and
the Department;
      (4)   An event which would have resulted in disqualification from
receiving such license or permit when originally issued;
      (5)   Any sale, hypothecation or transfer of such license or permit; and/
or
      (6)   The failure or refusal on the part of any licensee or permittee to
render any report or remit any taxes to the Department under the state act.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 21)
   (B)   Any liquor control licensee or beer permittee whose license or permit
is revoked under the state’s Beer and Liquor Control Act shall not thereafter
be permitted to hold a liquor control license or beer permit in the state for a
period of two years from the date of such revocation. The spouse and business
associates holding 10% or more of the capital stock or ownership interest in
the business of a person whose license or permit has been revoked shall not be
issued a liquor control license or beer permit, and no liquor control license
or beer permit shall be issued which covers any business in which such person
has a financial interest for a period of two years from the date of such
revocation. In the event a license or permit is revoked, the premises which
have been covered by such license or permit shall not be relicensed for one
year.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 22)
(Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-2-35 APPEAL AND HEARING.
   (A)   The right of appeal to the Hearing Board shall be afforded a liquor
control licensee or beer permittee whose license or permit has been suspended
or revoked. Any applicant who feels aggrieved by a decision of the Director or
city disapproving, suspending or revoking issuance of a liquor control license
or beer permit may; provided, he or she has exercised his or her right of
appeal to the Hearing Board, as provided by state law, appeal from said
decision within ten days to the District Court of the county wherein the
premises covered by the application are situated. The city may appeal a
decision of the Hearing Board within ten days to the District Court of the
county wherein the premises covered by the application is situated.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 23)
   (B)   The Council shall conduct its hearing on suspension or revocation in
the following manner.
      (1)   The permit holder, and the surety on his or her bond, shall be
served with written notice containing a copy of the complaint against him or
her, the ordinance, provision(s) or state statute(s) allegedly violated, and
the date, time and place for a hearing on the matter.
      (2)   The Council shall conduct a hearing, at which both the permit
holder and the complainant(s) shall be present, the purpose of which is to
determine the truth of the facts alleged in the complaint. Should the permit
holder or his or her authorized representative fail to appear without good
cause, the Council may proceed to a determination on the complaint.
      (3)   The permit holder shall have the right to be represented by
counsel, to testify and present witnesses in his or her own behalf and to
cross-examine adverse witnesses.
      (4)   The Council shall admit only reliable and substantial evidence into
the revocation or suspension proceeding and shall give all admitted evidence
its natural probative value.
      (5)   In the event that criminal charges have been brought against the
permit holder on the same facts and circumstances as are the basis for the
revocation or suspension complaint, the Council shall await a judgment in the
criminal action before conducting the revocation or temporary suspension
hearing required by this section. Neither a conviction, nor an acquittal, in
the criminal action shall be conclusive for purposes of the revocation or
suspension proceeding held under this section.
      (6)   The Council shall make and record findings of fact and conclusions
of law, and shall revoke or suspend a permit under this section only when, upon
review of the entire record, it finds clear and convincing evidence of a
substantial violation of this chapter of state law.
(Prior Code, Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 27)
(Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
CHAPTER 3: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
2-3-1   Definitions
2-3-2   License required
2-3-3   Religious and charitable organizations exempt
2-3-4   License application
2-3-5   Issuance, refusal and appeal
2-3-6   Fees
2-3-7   Specific requirements and regulations
2-3-8   Power to inspect and investigate
2-3-9   License display
2-3-10   License not transferable
2-3-11   Rebates on licenses
2-3-12   License revocation
2-3-13   Penalty
§ 2-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUCTIONEER. Any person who is hired to sell the personal and real property
of another at a public auction.
   HOUSE MOVER. Any person who undertakes to move a building or similar
structure upon or across the public streets, alleys, walks or property.
   JUNK DEALER. Any person engaged in collecting, storing, buying or selling
junk.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person whose business consists primarily of buying personal
property subject to the right or repurchase or redemption, or of receiving
actual possession of personal property as security for loans with or without a
mortgage or bill of sale. This definition shall not include banks, trust
companies, building and loan associates and similar businesses.
   PEDDLER. Any person carrying good or merchandise who sells or offers for
sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise from house to house or
upon the public street.
   REFUSE COLLECTION. Any person who transports upon the public streets,
alleys, sidewalks or property any refuse, except refuse directly from his or
her own property.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from house to
house or upon the public street an order for goods, subscriptions or
merchandise to be delivered at a future date.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person, firm or corporation who engages in a
temporary or itinerant merchandising business and in the course of such
business hires, leases or occupies any building or structure whatsoever.
Temporary association with a local merchant, dealer, trader or auctioneer, or
conduct of such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the
name of any local merchant, dealer, trader or auctioneer shall not exempt any
person, firm or corporation from being considered a TRANSIENT MERCHANT.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 1) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-3-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting, the business of a transient
merchant, house mover, junk dealer, refuse collector, pawnbroker or
auctioneering without first obtaining a license as herein provided shall be in
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 2) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-3-3 RELIGIOUS AND CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS EXEMPT.
   (A)   Authorized representatives of religious and charitable organizations
desiring to solicit money or to distribute literature shall be exempt from the
operation of §§
2-3-5 through
2-3-12 of this chapter. All such organizations shall be required to submit in
writing to the Clerk the name and purpose of the cause for which such
activities are sought, names and addresses of the officers and directors of the
organization, the period during which such activities are to be carried on, and
whether any commissions, fees or wages are to be charged by the solicitor for
his or her efforts and the amount thereof.
   (B)   If the Clerk shall find that the organization is a bona fide charity
or religious organization he or she shall issue, free of charge, a license
containing the above information to the applicant.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 3) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-3-4 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   An application in writing shall be filed with the Clerk for a license under
this chapter. Such application shall set forth the applicant’s name, permanent
and local address, business address, if any, physical description, recent
photograph, right thumbprint and, unless a solicitor, be accompanied by a
certificate that the applicant is in good health and free from contagious
diseases, signed by a local physician. The application also shall set forth the
applicant’s employer, if any, and the employer’s address, the nature of the
applicant’s business, the last three places of such business and the length of
time sought to be covered by the license. A fee of $2 shall be paid at the time
of filing such application to cover the cost of investigating the facts stated
therein.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 4) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-3-5 ISSUANCE, REFUSAL AND APPEAL.
   (A)   If the Clerk finds the application is made out in conformance with §
2-3-4 of this chapter and the facts stated therein are correct, he or she shall
issue, upon posting of bond as may be required by §
2-3-8 of this chapter, a license and charge a fee as determined by §
2-3-7 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 5)
   (B)   If the Clerk refuses to issue a license, he or she shall endorse his
or her reasons upon the application. The applicant then shall have a right to a
hearing before the Council at its next regular meeting. The Council may
reverse, modify or affirm the decision of the Clerk by a majority vote of the
Council members present, if a quorum, and the Clerk shall carry out the
Council’s decisions.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 6)
(Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-3-6 FEES.
   The fee for and the duration of each license shall be as follows.
   (A)   The fee for a house mover’s license shall be $25 per day and
authorization shall be granted for as many days as the moving operation
requires; except that, no house mover’s license can have a duration of more
than three days and, if a longer period is needed, the house mover’s license
must be reissued every three days and a new application must be filed for each
reissue of the license.
   (B)   The fee for a solicitor’s or peddler’s license shall be $5 and the
license shall expire 24 hours after the time of issuance.
   (C)   The fee for a junk dealer’s license shall be $25 and the license shall
expire one year after the time of issuance.
   (D)   The fee for a refuse collector’s license shall be $25 and the license
shall expire one year after the time of issuance.
   (E)   The fee for a pawnbroker’s license shall be $25 and the license shall
expire one year after the time of issuance.
   (F)   The fee for a license for an auctioneer’s sale shall be $10 for a
single sale or $50 for sales in a permanent location. The license for a single
sale shall expire at midnight of the day authorized for the sale. The license
for sales at a permanent location shall expire on December 31.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 7) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-3-7 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS.
   Applicants for a particular license and the licensees shall comply with the
following applicable requirements and regulations.
   (A)   House movers.
      (1)   An application for a house mover’s license shall describe the
present location and the future site of the building or similar structure to be
moved. The applicant shall post with the City Clerk a penal bond in the sum of
$10,000 with good and sufficient sureties approved by the City Clerk. The bond
shall guarantee the licensee’s payment for any damage done to the city or to
public property in the course of moving the building or similar structure.
      (2)   The applicant shall be insured in the sum of $1,000,000 against
liability for him or her or his or her agent’s or employees’ acts in the course
of the moving operation that result in personal injury, property damage or
both. A penal bond for the same sum of money may be posted with the City Clerk
in lieu of the insurance policy.
      (3)   The sureties on the bond shall be approved by the City Clerk and
the bond shall guarantee the licensee’s payment for personal injuries or
property damage caused by him or her or his or her agents or employees in the
course of the moving operation.
      (4)   The applicant shall file with the City Clerk a routing plan
approved by the Mayor. The Mayor shall approve the shortest route that is
compatible with the greatest public convenience and safety.
      (5)   At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon
any street, alley, sidewalk or public property, the licensee shall maintain
flaggers at the closest intersections or other possible channels of traffic
ahead, to the sides and behind the building or structure.
   (B)   Solicitors and bill posters.
      (1)   An application for a solicitor’s license shall contain a
description of the boundaries of the areas of the city in which the
solicitation and bills is to be made. The license shall limit the solicitation
in the city to these areas.
      (2)   Bill posters shall not attach bills to any tree, pole, sidewalk,
building or other structure.
      (3)   Bills larger than nine by 12 inches in size shall not be handed to
persons on the sidewalks or streets or public property or attached to
automobiles parked on any streets, alleys or public property.
      (4)   Bills shall not be distributed in such a manner that they may be
blown about or scattered.
   (C)   Junk dealers.
      (1)   Every junk dealer shall maintain a permanent record book that shows
a description of each item received, the name and address of the person from
whom it was received, the quantity or weight of each item, the amount paid and
the time and date of the transaction.
      (2)   A junk dealer shall not purchase or receive junk from a minor
unless he or she first receives the written consent of the parents or guardian
of the minor. Such consent shall be attached to the record book as a part of
the permanent record.
      (3)   In order to recover stolen property, peace officers shall be
permitted at all times to inspect the junk dealer’s yard, store or
establishment without a warrant to search the premises.
      (4)   The city shall be permitted at all times to inspect the junk
dealer’s premises for the existence of materials or conditions dangerous to the
public health.
      (5)   All junk yards shall be enclosed with a six-foot fence that hides
the contents of the yard from public view.
   (D)   Refuse collectors.
      (1)   An application for a refuse collector’s license shall contain a
detailed list describing each of the areas from which the refuse is to be
collected.
      (2)   Refuse shall not be carried upon any street, alley, sidewalk or
property of the city in containers that permit leaking or spilling of the
refuse.
      (3)   The city shall be permitted at all times to investigate the refuse
collector’s activities for the existence of materials or conditions dangerous
to the public health.
   (E)   Pawnbrokers or secondhand dealers.
      (1)   Every pawnbroker or secondhand dealer of merchandise shall maintain
a permanent record book that shows a description of each item received, the
name and address of the person from whom it was received, the quantity or
weight of each item, a statement of the nature of the transaction including the
sum for which the item is security, the time and date of the transaction and
the disposition made of the item including the time and date of disposition.
      (2)   A pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall not purchase or receive any
item from a minor unless he or she first receives the written consent of the
parents or guardian of the minor. Such consent shall be attached to the record
book as a part of the permanent record.
      (3)   Any pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall notify the Mayor
immediately upon receipt of an item that he or she believes or has reason to
believe is stolen property. Such an item shall not be disposed of or altered
without written permission from the Mayor.
   (F)   Sales by auctioneers.
      (1)   An application for a license for an auctioneer’s sale shall contain
a general description of the goods or property to be sold and the time and
place at which the sale will be held.
      (2)   An auctioneer shall not use any part of the public streets, alleys,
sidewalks or places as a location for conducting a sale.
      (3)   The provisions of this chapter concerning sales by auctioneers
shall not apply to any sales made by a person required by law to sell real or
personal property.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 8) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-3-8 POWER TO INSPECT AND INVESTIGATE.
   The City Clerk shall have power to inspect and investigate the conduct of
the occupations licensed or to be licensed under this chapter, or to cause such
an inspection or investigation to be made by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 9) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-3-9 LICENSE DISPLAY.
   Each solicitor or peddler shall at all times while doing business in the
city keep in his or her possession the license provided for in §
2-3-5(A) of this chapter and shall, upon the request of prospective customers,
exhibit the license as evidence that he or she has complied with all
requirements of this chapter. Each transient merchant shall display publicly
his or her license in his or her place of business.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 10) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-3-10 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 11) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-3-11 REBATES ON LICENSES.
   On surrender of any license before the expiration of the full period for
which it was issued, the licensee may apply for a rebate of the fee from the
Clerk. Determination of the amount of the rebate shall be made by deducting
from the fee paid the amount payable when computed on a monthly, weekly and
daily basis from the first day the license was issued. The balance, if any,
shall be refunded.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 12) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-3-12 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   The City Council, after notice and hearing, may revoke any license issued
under this chapter where the licensee in the application for the license or in
the course of conducting his or her business has made fraudulent or incorrect
statements or has violated this chapter or has otherwise conducted his or her
business in an unlawful manner.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 13) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 2-3-13 PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $100. Each day that a violation
continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 14) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
TITLE 3: HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
   Chapter
      
1.   NUISANCES
      
2.   WEEDS
      
3.   SOLID WASTE CONTROL
      
4.   OPEN BURNING
      
5.   JUNK, HOBBY VEHICLES AND JUNK VEHICLES
CHAPTER 1: NUISANCES
Section
3-1-1   Definitions
3-1-2   Nuisances prohibited
3-1-3   Other conditions prohibited
3-1-4   Notice to abate nuisance or condition
3-1-5   Contents of notice to abate
3-1-6   Method of service
3-1-7   Request for hearing and appeal
3-1-8   Abatement in emergency
3-1-9   Abatement by municipality
3-1-10   Collection of cost of abatement
§ 3-1-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Whatever is injurious to health, indecent or offensive to the
senses or an obstacle to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property. The following are
declared to be NUISANCES:
      (1)   The erecting, continuing or using any building or other place for
the exercise of any trade employment or manufacture, which, by occasioning
noxious exhalations, offensive smells or other annoyances, becomes injurious
and dangerous to the health, comfort or property of individuals or the public;
      (2)   The causing or suffering any offal, filth or noisome substance to
be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of others;
      (3)   The obstructing or impeding without legal authority the passage of
any navigable river, harbor or collection of water;
      (4)   The corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the water of any
river, stream or pond or unlawfully diverting the same from its natural course
or state, to the injury or prejudice of others;
      (5)   The obstructing or encumbering by fences, buildings or otherwise
the public roads, private ways, streets, alleys, commons, landing places or
burying grounds;
      (6)   Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of prostitution and
lewdness, gambling houses or houses resorted to for the use of opium or hashish
or houses where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting or breaches of the peace are
carried on or permitted to the disturbance of others;
      (7)   Billboards, signboards and advertising signs, whether erected and
constructed on public or private property, which so obstruct and impair the
view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway, boulevard or
alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render dangerous the use
thereof;
      (8)   Cotton-bearing cottonwood trees and all other cotton-bearing poplar
trees in cities;
      (9)   Any object or structure hereafter erected within 1,000 feet of the
limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or landing place,
which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation, including take-off and
landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use or enjoyment
of the land on which the same is located;
      (10)   The depositing or storing of inflammable junk, such as old rags,
rope, cordage, rubber, bones and paper, by dealers in such articles within the
fire limits of any city, unless it be in a building of fire-proof construction;
      (11)   The emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes or fly ash;
      (12)   Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush or other vegetation in the
city so as to constitute a health, safety or fire hazard; and
      (13)   Trees infected with Dutch elm disease.
   PROPERTY OWNERS. The contract purchaser if there is one of record, otherwise
the record holder of legal title.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 1, § 1) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 3-1-2 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is hereby prohibited and a
nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 1, § 2) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 3-1-3 OTHER CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   The following actions are required and may also be abated in the manner
provided in this chapter:
   (A)   The removal of diseased trees or dead wood, but not diseased trees and
dead wood outside the lot and property lines and inside the curb lines upon the
public street;
   (B)   The removal, repair or dismantling of a dangerous building or
structure;
   (C)   The numbering of buildings;
   (D)   The connection to public drainage systems from abutting property when
necessary for public health or safety; and
   (E)   The cutting or destruction of weeds or other growth which constitutes
a health, safety or fire hazard.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 1, § 3) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 3-1-4 NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE OR CONDITION.
   Whenever the Mayor or other authorized municipal officer finds that a
nuisance or other condition listed in §
3-1-3 of this chapter exists, he or she shall cause to be served upon the
property owner, as shown by the records of the County Auditor, a written notice
to abate the nuisance within a reasonable time after notice.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 1, § 4) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 3-1-5 CONTENTS OF NOTICE TO ABATE.
   The notice to abate shall contain:
   (A)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance or other condition;
   (B)   The location of the nuisance or condition;
   (C)   A statement of the act or acts necessary abate the nuisance or
condition;
   (D)   A reasonable time within which to complete the abatement; and
   (E)   A statement that if the nuisance or condition is not abated as
directed and no request for hearing is made within the time prescribed, the
city will abate it and assess the costs against such person.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 1, § 5) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 3-1-6 METHOD OF SERVICE.
   The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or sent by certified mail to
the property owner as shown by the records of the County Auditor.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 1, § 6) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 3-1-7 REQUEST FOR HEARING AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person ordered to abate a nuisance or condition may have a hearing
with the officer ordering the abatement as to whether a nuisance or prohibited
condition exists. A request for a hearing must be made in writing and delivered
to the officer ordering the abatement within the time stated in the notice, or
it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance or prohibited condition exists
and it must be abated as ordered.
   (B)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall render a
written decision as to whether a nuisance or prohibited condition exists. If he
or she finds that a nuisance or prohibited condition exists, he or she must
order it abated within an additional time which must be reasonable under the
circumstances. An appeal from this decision may be had by immediately filing a
written notice with the hearing office. This appeal will be heard before the
City Council at a time and place fixed by the Council. The findings of the
Council shall be conclusive and, if a nuisance or prohibited condition is found
to exist, it shall be ordered abated within a time reasonable under the
circumstances.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 1, § 7) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 3-1-8 ABATEMENT IN EMERGENCY.
   If it is determined that an emergency exists by reason of the continuing
maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the city may perform any action which
may be required under this chapter without prior notice. The city shall assess
the costs as provided in §
3-1-10 of this chapter, after notice to the property owner under the applicable
provision of §§
3-1-4 and
3-1-5 of this chapter and hearing as provided in §
3-1-7 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 1, § 8) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 3-1-9 ABATEMENT BY MUNICIPALITY.
   If the person notified to abate a nuisance or condition neglects or fails to
abate as directed, the city may perform the required action to abate, keeping
an accurate account of the expense incurred. The itemized expense account shall
be filed with the City Clerk who shall pay such expenses on behalf of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 1, § 9) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 3-1-10 COLLECTION OF COST OF ABATEMENT.
   The Clerk shall mail a statement of the total expense incurred to the
property owner who has failed to abide by the notice to abate and, if the
amount shown by the statement has not been paid within one month, he or she
shall certify the costs to the County Auditor and it shall then be collected
with, and in the same manner, as general property taxes.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 1, § 10) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
CHAPTER 2: WEEDS
Section
3-2-1   Purpose
3-2-2   Definition
3-2-3   Compliance required
3-2-4   Responsibility to cut; city action
3-2-5   Streets and alleys; responsibility of abutting owners; city action
3-2-6   Assessments
3-2-7   Hindrance of city officials unlawful
§ 3-2-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the cutting and control of
weeds and tall grass within the city.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 8, § 1) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 3-2-2 DEFINITION.
   The term WEED, for use in this chapter, is defined as all rank vegetable
growth which exhales unpleasant obnoxious odor and also high and rank vegetable
growth that may conceal vermin, rodents and pests, including, but not limited
to, all noxious weeds, specifically: quack grass (Agropyron repens); perennial
sow thistle (Sonchus arvensis); Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense); bull thistle
(Cirsium lanceolatum); horse nettle (Solanum carolinense); leafy spurge
(Euphorbia esula); perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba); Russian knapweed
(Centaurea repens); buckthorn (Rhamnus, not to include Rhamnus frangula; all
other species of thistles belonging in genera of Cirsium and Carduus);
butterprint (Abutilon theophrasti) annual; cocklebur (Xanthium commune) annual;
wild mustard (Brassica arvensis) annual; wild carrot (Daucus carota) biennial,
buckhorn (plantago lanceolata) perennial; sheep sorrel (Rumex acetosella)
perennial; sour dock (Rumex crispus) perennial; smooth dock (Rumex altissimus)
perennial; poison hemlock (conium maculatum); multiflora rose (rasa
multiflora); wild sunflower (wild strain of Helianthus annus L) annual;
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris) annual; teasel (Dipsacus) biennia. The
multiflora rose (rosa multiflora) shall not be considered a NOXIOUS WEED when
cultivated for or used as understock for cultivated roses or as ornamental
shrubs in gardens.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 8, § 2) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 3-2-3 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter, either by an
act of omission or commission or by failing to cut the weeds or tall grass
required by this chapter to be cut, after notice being given in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city, posted at the Post Office and Anderson’s
Country Store, notifying residents of the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 8, § 3) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 3-2-4 RESPONSIBILITY TO CUT; CITY ACTION.
   The owners, agents or occupants of all lots and parcels of ground within the
city shall cut, or cause to be cut, all weeds or tall grass on their respective
premises as aforesaid not later than May 15, June 15, July 15, August 15 and
September 15 respectively, each year. Notwithstanding the previous statement,
owners, agents or occupants of all lots and parcels of ground within the city
shall cut, or cause to be cut, all weeds or grass on their respective premises
to a height not to exceed 12 inches. If any lot or parcel of ground within the
city has not been cut, or has weeds or grass 12 inches or higher on May 15,
June 15, July 15, August 15 and September 15 respectively, each year. In case
this section is not complied with within three days after the dates above
fixed, the Public Works Director may cause such weeds or grass to be cut.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 8, § 4) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 3-2-5 STREETS AND ALLEYS; RESPONSIBILITY OF ABUTTING OWNERS; CITY ACTION.
   The owners, agents or occupants of all lands abutting any of the streets and
alleys within the city shall keep such streets and alleys free from brush,
weeds and rubbish. Such brush, weeds and rubbish shall be removed not later
than May 15, June 15, July 15, August 15 and September 15 respectively, each
year. In case this section is not complied with within three days after the
dates above fixed, the Public Works Director may cause the removal of such
brush, weeds and rubbish.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 8, § 5) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 3-2-6 ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   The Public Works Director shall keep an itemized account of all work
done under §§
3-2-4 and
3-2-5 of this chapter and shall report the same to the City Council, with the
names, if known, of the owners, agents or occupants of such premises, together
with a description of the land or parcel of land concerned. The amount of the
assessment contemplated (minimum assessment $300) for the work done under §§
3-2-4 and
3-2-5 of this chapter shall be established by resolution of Council as may be
approved. An invoice will be mailed to the owners, agents or occupants of such
premises.
   (B)   The notice of unpaid assessment contemplated in this chapter shall be
given not later than December 15 of the year and at least 20 days prior to the
time thus fixed for such hearing and shall give notice thereof to all concerned
that proposed assessment is on file and that the amounts as shown therein will
be assessed against the several lots, tracts of land or parcels for such
hearing, unless objection is made thereto. Notice of such hearing shall be
given by one publication in the paper of general circulation, the Post Office
and Anderson’s Country Store. At such time and place, the owner of said
premises, or anyone liable to pay such assessment, may appear with the same
rights given by law before boards of review in reference to assessments for
general taxation.
   (C)   The City Council shall, by resolution, fix a time for passing on the
matter of levying a special assessment against private property for such weed
cutting. City Council shall give to the owner of the property affected notice
of the time and place fixed for considering the matter of levying a special
assessment against the property concerned.
   (D)   At the time and place fixed, the City Council shall consider and
dispose of all objections as contemplated in Iowa Code § 317.21. The City
Council shall then, by resolution, levy such assessment as may be appropriate
against the property in the same manner as other special assessments.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 8, § 6) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 3-2-7 HINDRANCE OF CITY OFFICIALS UNLAWFUL.
   No person shall hinder, obstruct or otherwise interfere with the agents,
personnel, representatives or independent contractors of the city while engaged
in carrying out the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 8, § 7) (Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 3: SOLID WASTE CONTROL
Section
3-3-1   Definition
3-3-2   Separation of yard waste required
§ 3-3-1 DEFINITION.
   YARD WASTE means organic debris (e.g., grass clippings, leaves, tree and
brush limbs, bark, branches, flowers and the like) which is produced as part of
yard and garden development and maintenance.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 6, § 1) (Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
§ 3-3-2 SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.
   All yard waste shall be separated by the owner or occupant from all other
garbage and refuse accumulated on the premises and shall be composted the
premises or disposed of by approved burning or placed in an approved area in
the city.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 6, § 2) (Ord. passed 10-2-1990)
CHAPTER 4: OPEN BURNING
Section
3-4-1   Open burning restricted
3-4-2   Variances
3-4-3   Time restriction
3-4-4   Penalties
§ 3-4-1 OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.
   No person shall allow, cause or permit open burning of combustible
materials; except that, the following shall be permitted subject to
restrictions imposed by the Oskaloosa Fire Department, the Iowa Administrative
Code and all federal regulations concerning air quality and public safety:
   (A)   General regulations.
      (1)   All allowed materials must be burned within and approved container
having:
         (a)   One-inch holes spaced at 12-inch centers over the entire surface
of the container;
         (b)   Which shall be placed on non-flammable blocks to a height of at
least four inches above the ground; and
         (c)   The opening shall be entirely covered with a wire mesh with
openings of no more than one-half inch.
      (2)   All open burning must be at least 50 feet away from any habitable
building.
      (3)   All open fires are supervised by a competent person who is in
constant attendance until ail fire has been extinguished.
      (4)   Prohibited materials are rubber tires, chemicals, furniture,
carpeting, household appliances and vinyl products.
      (5)   This chapter prohibits all persons from conducting or permitting
open burning on public property without prior authorization of the public
entity responsible for its control and care. This includes roadways and
easements.
   (B)   Disaster rubbish. Any refuse resulting when a declared emergency
condition exists. The open burning of rubbish, including landscape waste, for
the duration of the community disaster period in cases where an officially
declared emergency condition exists;
   (C)   Diseased trees. The open burning of diseased trees is allowed.
However, when the burning of diseased trees causes a nuisance, appropriate
action may be taken to require relocation of the burning operation. All other
tree and tree-trimming waste may be burned at a tree-trimming pile site that is
operated by local government and which is burned regularly, supervised and
fenced off from the public. Rubber tires shall not be used to ignite diseased
trees;
   (D)   Landscape waste. The disposal by open burning of landscape waste
originating on the premises. However, the burning of landscape waste shall be
limited to areas located at least 50 feet from any inhabited building. Rubber
tires shall not be used to ignite landscape waste;
   (E)   Recreational fires. Open fires for cooking, heating, recreation and
ceremonies, provided they comply with the limits for emission of visible
contaminates established by the state’s Department of Environmental Quality;
and
   (F)   Backyard burning. Backyard burning of residential waste (not to
include vegetable matter, plastic or any other material considered toxic by
state and/or federal law), at dwellings of four family units or less will be
permitted only in approved containers.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 4, § 1) (Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
§ 3-4-2 VARIANCES.
   Any person wishing to conduct open burning of materials not exempted herein
may make application for a variance to the Oskaloosa Fire Department or 911
service with notification at least one day prior to conducting the burn.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 4, § 2) (Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
§ 3-4-3 TIME RESTRICTION.
   Open burning shall be allowed only during the period between sunrise and
sunset and no live embers shall be allowed to remain after sunset.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 4, § 3) (Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
§ 3-4-4 PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
penalties as addressed under §§
1-1-25 through
1-1-33 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 4, § 4) (Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
CHAPTER 5: JUNK, HOBBY VEHICLES AND JUNK VEHICLES
Section
3-5-1   Definitions
3-5-2   Junk, hobby vehicles and junk prohibited
3-5-3   Junk, hobby vehicles and junk a nuisance
3-5-4   Exceptions
3-5-5   Right of entry
3-5-6   Notice to abate
3-5-7   Service of notice
3-5-8   Duty of owner to remove or repair after notice
3-5-9   Abatement by city
§ 3-5-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   HOBBY VEHICLE means an unlicensed motor vehicle, including but not limited
to dragsters, stock cars, Indy-type racers, midget racers, all-terrain
vehicles, dune buggies, go-carts or competition pulling garden or farm
tractors. For the purpose of this chapter, golf-carts, boat trailers, common
utility trailers, camping trailers or snowmobile trailers are not considered
hobby vehicles.
   JUNK means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-ferrous
metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber, debris,
waste or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles, machinery and
appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery or appliances; iron, steel, or
other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass, tinware, plastic
or old or discarded household goods or hardware. Neatly stacked firewood
located on a side yard or a rear yard is not considered junk.
   JUNK VEHICLE means any vehicle which has any of the following
characteristics:
      (1)    Inoperable. Any vehicle not capable of being driven upon a public
road under manufacturer’s specifications.
      (2)   Habitat for nuisance animals or insects. Any vehicle which has
become a habitat for rats, mice, or snakes, or any other vermin or insects.
      (3)   Defective or obsolete condition. Any other vehicle which, because
of its defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat
to the public health and safety.
      (4)   Unlicensed. Any vehicle that is not currently licensed. Mere
licensing of such vehicle shall not constitute a defense to the finding that
the vehicle is a junk vehicle.
   VEHICLE means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, excepting devices moved
by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and
includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination thereof. (Ord. passed
- -2023)
§ 3-5-2 JUNK, HOBBY VEHICLES AND JUNK PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or allow to remain on
any private property within the corporate limits of the City any junk, hobby
vehicle or junk vehicle. (Ord. passed - -2023)
§ 3-5-3 JUNK, HOBBY VEHICLES AND JUNK A NUISANCE.
   It is hereby declared that any junk, hobby vehicle or junk vehicle located
upon private property, unless excepted by Section
3-5-4, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of the citizens and is a
nuisance withing the meaning of Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa and Chapter
50 of this Code of Ordinances. If any junk, hobby vehicle or junk vehicle is
kept upon private property in violation hereof, the owner of or person
occupying the property upon which it is located shall be prima facie liable for
said violation. (Code of Iowa. Section 364.12[3a]). (Ord. passed - -2023)
§ 3-5-4 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to junk, hobby vehicle or
junk vehicle located within a garage or other completely enclosed structure so
long as to not violate Section
3-5-1 B.3. of this Code of Ordinances. The provisions of this chapter shall not
apply to a hobby vehicle or junk vehicle located upon any of the following
premises as long as the premises is not in violation of any provision of the
Code of Ordinances:
   (A)   Authorized vehicle recycler (as defined in Iowa Code Chapter 321H);
   (B)   Licensed motor vehicle dealership (as defined in Iowa Code Chapter
322);
   (C)   Motor home and travel trailer dealership (as defined in Iowa Code
Chapter 322C);
   (D)   Farm implement dealership (as defined in Iowa Code Chapter 322D);
   (E)   Motorcycle, snowmobile, ATV, and/or other recreational vehicle
dealership (as defined in Iowa code Section 321.1(40) and Iowa Code Chapter
321G);
   (F)   Motor vehicle franchisor and franchisee (as defined in Iowa Code
Chapter 322A);
   (G)   Towing service company licensed to operate as such through the Iowa
Department of    Transportation;
   (H)   A vehicle under active repair parked upon the driveway of a
residentially zoned property not having a garage, provided the owner has
notified City officials in writing o the owner’s intent to actively repair the
vehicle and the repairs are completed within thirty (30) days of the
notification;
   (I)   Construction vehicles that are stored;
   (J)   Commercial areas approved for outside storage;
   (K)   A business whose primary function is the sale of manufacture of or
repair of one or more of the above listed hobby vehicles;
   (L)   Fenced area of 6 feet in height or more that is built in either wood,
metal or concrete that is not visible to someone 6 feet in height when standing
next to fencing and fencing is not offensive as determined by the City Council.
Fenced area must not be see through fencing and must be of one color;
   (M)   Any junk vehicle that is either an antique (50 years older than
current date) that is being actively restored or an operable special interest
vehicle, or a special interest vehicle that is being actively restored, and in
any case when stored in a rear or side yard and fully enclosed behind a solid
fence at least six feet in height that completely obscures a view of the
vehicle from the adjacent public or private property. None of the exceptions
set forth in the subsection shall exempt a junk vehicle if stored on a trailer,
regardless of whether the trailer is licensed and operable, unless stored
withing an enclosed building.
   A hobby vehicle or junk vehicle shall not be placed at any of the above-
listed commercial properties for more than 180 days. Any of the above-listed
businesses may apply for a one-time 10-day extension of this time limit by
contacting the Clerk’s office. (Ord. passed - -2023)
§ 3-5-5 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Mahaska County Sheriff, his/her authorized representative, and/or the
person, firm or corporation designated to abate nuisances pursuant to this
chapter and this Code of Ordinances, are hereby authorized to access any
property upon which junk, a hobby vehicle or a junk vehicle is located for the
purpose of carrying out any and all actions required by this chapter, at the
City’s direction. (Ord. passed - -2023)
§ 3-5-6 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Upon discovery of any junk, hobby vehicle or junk vehicle located on private
property in violations of this chapter, the City Clerk or his/her duly
authorized representative shall notify in writing the owner of the property
upon which the vehicle is located and the owner of the vehicle, if known, that:
   (A)   The junk, hobby vehicle or junk vehicle constitutes a nuisance under
the provision of this chapter;
   (B)   The junk, hobby vehicle or junk vehicle must be removed in accordance
with the provisions of Section
3-5-8 of this chapter or repair the vehicle and properly display current
registration, plates or stickers for the chicle within 20 day;
   (C)   Failure to abate nuisance as prescribed by the notice shall be
sufficient cause for removal of the junk, hobby vehicle or junk vehicle by the
City as set forth in Section
3-5-9 of this chapter. (Ord. passed - -2023)
§ 3-5-7 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Any notice shall be deemed to be properly served when a copy thereof is
delivered to him/her personally or by certified mail with return receipt
requested to his/her last known address. If the City selects service by
certified mail, notice shall be deemed given when mailed. (Ord. passed - -2023)
§ 3-5-8 DUTY OF OWNER TO REMOVE OR REPAIR AFTER NOTICE.
   The owner of junk, hobby vehicle or junk vehicle and the owner of the
property upon which it is located shall, within 20 days after notice has been
given as provided in Section
3-5-6 thereof:
   (A)   Repair any and all conditions as defined under Section
3-5-1 of this chapter which cause such vehicle to be a nuisance as defined
herein;
   (B)   Remove the junk, hobby vehicle or junk vehicle or cause to have the
junk, hobby vehicle or junk vehicle removed to an authorized junk/salvaged yard
or to any other location provided the same complies with all applicable
provisions of this Code of Ordinances. (Ord. passed - -2023)
§ 3-5-9 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   If the owner of the junk, hobby vehicle or junk vehicle or owner of the
property upon which the junk, hobby vehicle or junk vehicle is located shall
fail to abate the nuisance as prescribed in Section
3-5-8 of this chapter, the City of Beacon by and through the Mahaska County
Sheriff or his/her designated representative may abate such nuisance by causing
the junk, hobby vehicle or junk vehicle to be removed and impounded and sold or
disposed of as provided for abandoned vehicles under Section
3-5-1 of this Code of Ordinances. The Council may also, by resolution,
establish reasonable fees for any other costs incurred through the enforcement
of this chapter. All costs of such abatement and enforcement shall be charged
to the owner of the junk, hobby vehicle or junk vehicle, if known. In the event
that it is not possible to determine the owner of the vehicle, all costs of
such abatement and enforcement shall be charged to the owner of the property
where such vehicle was located. All such costs may be assessed against the
property being deemed as benefitting from the removal and collected as a
special assessment in the same manner as property taxes. (Ord. passed - -2023)
TITLE 4: PUBLIC SAFETY
   Chapter
      
1.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
2.   ANIMAL CONTROL
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Discharging Weapons
4-1-1   Purpose
4-1-2   Discharge prohibited
4-1-3   Throwing or shooting missiles
4-1-4   Penalty
DISCHARGING WEAPONS
§ 4-1-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the discharging of weapons
within the city limits and to provide penalties for violations of these
regulations.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 5, § 1) (Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
§ 4-1-2 DISCHARGE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns or firearms of any kind within the city limits, except by
authorization of the County Sheriff or local law enforcement.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 5, § 2) (Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
§ 4-1-3 THROWING OR SHOOTING MISSILES.
   It is unlawful for a person to throw missiles of any kind or to shoot
arrows, slingshots, air rifles or other dangerous instruments on or into any
street, highway, alley, sidewalk or public place, except when under proper
supervision of persons authorized by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 5, § 3) (Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
§ 4-1-4 PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, Art. 9, Ch. 5, § 4) (Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
CHAPTER 2: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
4-2-1   Definitions
4-2-2   Cruelty
4-2-3   Exhibitions and fights
4-2-4   Injuries
4-2-5   Running at large and prohibited in fenced ball fields
4-2-6   Harboring bothersome animals
4-2-7   Damage or interference
4-2-8   Permitting annoyance or disturbance
4-2-9   Dangerous animals
4-2-10   Immunization
4-2-11   At large–impoundment
4-2-12   Disposition of licensed dogs
4-2-13   Disposition of unlicensed animals
4-2-14   Impoundment costs
Dog Licensing
4-2-25   Annual license
4-2-26   Exemption for kennel dogs
4-2-27   Animal waste
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 4-2-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. All living creatures not human.
    AT-LARGE. Any animal found off the premises of its owner and not under the
control of a competent person, restrained withing a motor vehicle, or housed in
a veterinary hospital or kennel; except that a dog once before impounded for
being at large, or whose owner has been convicted of allowing the dog to be at
large or allowing the dog to cause an annoyance or disturbance shall not then
be deemed at large if:
      (1)   The dog is on the premises of the owner or a person given charge of
the dog and is either:       
         (a)   Inside the residence or other adequate building or structure,
or;
         (b)   Accompanied by and obedient to the commands of the owner or the
person given such charge, or;
         (c)   Restrained on the premises by an adequate protective fence or by
leash, cord, chain or other similar restraint that is at least 12 feet in
length and that does not allow a dog to go beyond the owner’s real property
line;
      (2)   The dog is off the premises of the owner and is on a leash, cord or
chain or other similar restraint not more than six feet in length and under the
control of a person competent to restrain and control the dog, or properly
restrained within a motor vehicle or is properly housed in a veterinary
hospital or kennel.
   LICENSED DOG. Any dog bearing a currently valid license under Code of Iowa
Ch. 351.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, sheltering or harboring an animal.
§ 4-2-2 CRUELTY.   
   No person shall impound or confined or cause to be impounded or confined, in
any place, any domestic animal, or fowl, or any dog or cat, and fail to supply
such animal during confinement with a sufficient quantity of food and water, or
shall torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, mutilate, overdrive,
overload, drive when overloaded, beat, or kill any such animal by means which
shall cause unjustified pain, distress or suffering, whether intentionally or
negligently.
§ 4-2-3 EXHIBITIONS AND FIGHTS.
   No person shall arrange, promote, or stage and exhibition at which any
animal is tormented, or any fight between animals or between a person and an
animal, or shall keep a place where such exhibition and fights are staged of
the entrainment of spectators.
§ 4-2-4 INJURIES.
   No person, having no right to do so, shall maliciously kill, maim, or
disfigure any animal of another, or maliciously administer poison to any such
animal, or expose any poisonous substance with the intent that the same should
be taken by such animal.
§ 4-2-5 RUNNING AT LARGE AND PROHIBITED IN FENCED BALL FIELDS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any owner to allow dogs, cats, cattle, horses,
swine, sheep or other similar animals to run at large within the limits of the
city.   
   (B)   It is unlawful for an owner or person to allow dogs, cats, cattle,
horses, swine, sheep or other similar animals to be upon or inside the fenced
portion of any fenced ball field within the corporate limits of the city. Ball
field includes but is not limited to Little League baseball and softball
fields, soccer fields or any other ball fields that are enclosed by fencing.
§ 4-2-6 HARBORING BOTHERSOME ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for a person to keep within the city such bothersome animals
as barking dogs, bees, cattle, horses, swine and sheep which tend to disrupt
the peace and good order of the community.
§ 4-2-7 DAMAGE OR INTERFERENCE.
   It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to allow or permit such animal to
pass upon the premises of another thereby causing damage to, or interference
with, the premises.
§ 4-2-8 PERMITTING ANNOYANCE OR DISTURBANCE.
   It is unlawful for the owner of a dog to allow or permit such dog to cause
serious annoyance or disturbance to any person or persons by frequent and
habitual howling, barking, or otherwise; or, by running after or chasing
persons, bicycles, automobiles or other vehicles.
§ 4-2-9 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Definitions. For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
      (1)   DANGEROUS ANIMALS. 
         (a)   Any animal which is not naturally tame or gentle, and which is
of a wild nature and which is capable of killing, inflicting serious injury
upon or causing disease among human beings and;
         (b)   Animals, which are deemed to be dangerous per se: wolves,
coyotes and foxes; badgers, wolverines, weasels, mink and other Mustelids;
bats; bears; Gila monsters, and lizards that are venomous or poisonous; all
apes (including chimpanzees), baboons and macaques; monkeys, except the
squirrel monkey; elephants; wild boar; black widow or brown recluse spiders and
scorpions; snakes which are naturally venomous of poisonous; snakes which are
constricting and exceeding six feet in length; all cats; except domestic cats
(Carnivora of the family Felidae, including but not limited to lions, cougars,
tigers, jaguars, leopards, lynx, ocelots, bobcats, etc.); and racoons, opossums
and skunks.
         (c)   Dangerous animals shall not include dangerous domestic animals
as defined in division (D) of this section.
   (B)   Keeping of dangerous animals prohibited. No person shall keep, shelter
or harbor any dangerous animal or act as a custodian for such animal or keep
such animal for any purpose or in any capacity within the city except in the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The keeping of dangerous animals in a public zoo, bona fide
educational or medical institutions, humane society or museum where they are
kept as live specimens for the public to view or for the purpose of
instruction, research, or study;
      (2)   The keeping of dangerous animals for exhibition to the public by a
circus, carnival, exhibit or show where such circus, carnival, exhibit or show
is of traveling nature, is displayed before large assemblages of people and
maintains any and all required federal or state licenses;
      (3)   The keeping of dangerous animals in bona fide, licensed veterinary
hospital for treatment;
      (4)   The keeping of dangerous animals by a wildlife rescue organization
with appropriate permit from the State Department of Natural Resources;
      (5)   Any dangerous animals under the jurisdiction of and in the
possession of the Iowa Department of Natural Resources, pursuant to Code of
Iowa Ch. 481A and 481B.
   (C)   Seizure, impoundment, and disposition of dangerous animals. 
      (1)   In the event that a dangerous animal is found at large and
unattended upon public property, park property, public right-of-way or the
property of someone other than its owner, thereby creating a hazard to persons
or property, such animal may, in the discretion of the Chief of Police, be
destroyed if it cannot be confined or captured. The city shall be under no duty
to attempt the confinement or capture of a dangerous animal fount at large, nor
shall it have a duty to notify the owner of such animal prior to its
destruction.
      (2)   Upon the complaint of any individual that a person is keeping,
sheltering or harboring a dangerous animal in the city, the Chief of Police
shall cause the matter to be investigated, and if after investigation, the
facts indicate that such person is keeping, sheltering or harboring a dangerous
animal in the city, the Chief of Police shall issue a citation for the
violation, and shall order such person to safely remove such animal from the
city, and permanently place the animal with an organization or group allowed
under division (B) of this section to possess dangerous animals, or destroy the
animal, within three days of the receipt of such order. Such order shall be
contained in a notice to remove the dangerous animal, which notice shall be
given in writing to the person keeping, sheltering or harboring the dangerous
animal, and shall be served personally or by certified mail. Such order and
notice to remove the dangerous animal shall not be required where the dangerous
animal has previously caused serious physical harm or death to any person, in
which case, the Chief of Police shall cause the animal to be immediately seized
and impounded or killed if seizure and impoundment are not possible without
risk of serious physical harm or death to any person.
      (3)    The order to remove a dangerous animal, issued by the Chief of
Police, may be appealed to the Animal Review Board as set forth in division (I)
of this section. If the Animal Review Board affirms the action of the Chief of
Police, the board shall order in its written decision that the individual or
entity owning, sheltering, harboring or keeping such dangerous animal, remove
such animal from the city, permanently place such animal with an organization
or group allowed under division (B) of this section to possess dangerous
animals, or destroy it. If the original order of the Chief of Police is not
appealed and it is not complied with within tree days, or if the order of the
Animal Review Board after appeal is not complied with within three days of its
issuance, the Chief of Police is authorized to seize and impound for a period
of seven days, with the coasts thereof to be at the expense of the owner. If at
the end of the impoundment period, the individual or entity against whom the
decision and order of the Animal Review Board has not petitioned the Iowa
District Court for review of said order, the city shall cause the animal to be
disposed of by sale, permanently place such animal with an organization or
group allowed under division (B) of this section to possess dangerous animals,
or destroy such animals in humane manner. Failure to comply with an order of
the city issued pursuant hereto shall constitute a misdemeanor offense,
punishable pursuant to this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Definitions and determination of dangerous domestic animals.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep a dangerous animal
except as otherwise provided in this section. For purpose of this section
DANGEROUS DOMESTIC ANIMAL means:
         (a)   Any animal which has inflicted serious injury on a person
without provocation;
         (b)   Any animal which has at the animal’s own initiative, seriously
injured or killed a domestic animal;
         (c)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the
purpose of animal fighting.          
         (d)   Any animal which by breeding, training, disposition or behavior
may pose a potential risk of attacking and inflicting injury without
provocation upon people or other animals.
   PROVOCATION. The threat, injury or damage caused by the animal as sustained
by a person who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass or other tort
upon the premises occupied by the owner of the animal, or was tormenting,
abusing or assaulting the animal, or was committing or attempting to commit a
crime.
   SERIOUS INJURY. Any physical injury to a human being or a domestic animal as
a result of an animal’s actions which demonstrate in intent to harm resulting
in a major fracture, muscle tears, disfiguring lacerations or which requires
multiple sutures or corrective or cosmetic surgery.
      (2)   Determination of dangerous animal. The determination as to whether
a particular animal is a dangerous domestic animal shall be made by the Chief
of Police, or his designee, on the basis of reasonable evidence, which may
include, but not limited to, consideration of a verified report of an incident
involving unprovoked aggressive behavior directed at a person or a domestic
animal, any provocation or trespass on the part of the animal attacked;
compliance, or lack of same, with all animal control ordinances on the part of
any animal or the person responsible for any animal; and the opinion of
experts.
      (3)   Securing animal.
         (a)   During the period of investigation, the Chief of Police or
designee shall have the authority to order the owner or keeper of an animal
under investigation to secure that animal. This may include the directive that
the animal be secured off the premises of the owner or keeper, at the owner’s
expense.
         (b)   Failure to strictly comply with all conditions of the order to
secure an animal during investigation shall be a municipal infraction
punishable by a fine of $500 for first offense and $750 for any subsequent
offense. Each day that the violation occurs or is permitted to exist
constitutes a separate offense.
         (c)   If the Chief of Police or designee has reason to believe that
the animal threatens the safety of person or domestic animal, the Chief of
Police or designee may enter upon any premises upon which the animal is kept
and remove the animal from those premises to a place of impoundment.
   Entry onto said premises shall be only with the consent of the person in
lawful control of the premises, or after obtaining a search warrant pursuant to
law.
   (E)   Registration required.
      (1)   All animals within the scope of division (D) of this section shall
be registered with the city by all adult person(s) responsible for the keeping
of the animal. Failure or refusal to register each such animal, including
providing the location where the animal resides and its identifying
characteristics, on forms provided by the city, shall constitute a violation of
this code.
      (2)   Re-registration is required in the event animal’s owner, keeper or
possessor is changed or the animal’s place of residence is moved to another
location. The registration requirements attach to the animal and compliance
with all registration requirements shall be the strict duty of any person or
entity which acquires ownership, keeping, or possession of the animal.
      (3)   The registration of an animal shall be renewed annually. The
premises and facilities where such registered animal is kept shall be inspected
annually by the Chief of Police or designee, unless there is reason to believe
animals are being improperly kept or cared for, in which case inspections may
be made as the city deems necessary. The City Council may establish a schedule
of fees to cover costs of administration and inspection.
      (4)   In the event the animal registered pursuant to these provisions is
found to be missing, this event shall be promptly reported to the police
department.
   (F)   Proof of financial responsibility required.
      (1)   Any person keeping a dangerous animal within the scope of division
(D) of this section shall be required to prove financial responsibility for any
injury or damage that may be caused by the animal by either:
         (a)   Posting a cash or surety bond in the amount of one hundred
thousand dollars, or;
         (b)   Presenting a certificate of insurance issued by an insurance
company licensed to do business in this state, providing personal liability
insurance coverage as in a homeowner’s policy, with a minimum liability amount
of $1,000,000 for the injury or death of any person, for damage to property of
others, and for acts of negligence by the owner or the owner’s agents, in the
keeping or owning of such potentially dangerous animal. The certificate shall
require notice to the city, in conformity with general city standards for
certificates of insurance, if the underlying policy of insurance is cancelled
for any reason. If a certificate of insurance or policy is not immediately
available, a binder indicating the coverage may be accepted for a period of up
to 30 days following a determination that an animal is a dangerous animal
within the scope of division (D) of this section.
      (2)   Failure to provide a certificate of insurance after 30 days shall
be violation of this section, and the dangerous animal shall be subject to
removal and shall be humanely destroyed at the expense of the person keeping
the dangerous animal.
   (G)   Confinement standards. All animals within the scope of division (D) of
this section shall be confined pursuant to a confinement plan approved by the
Chief of Police or designee. If such confinement facilities are indoors, all
access doors must be continually locked. If such confinement facilities are
outdoors, they must be securely constructed with chain link or masonry fence
sides, with securely attached ceilings and with a concrete floor securely
attached to the sides of the pen. Entrance gates must be continually locked
with a key or combination lock. A perimeter fence of appropriate height and
material to prevent escape must be built at least four feet from the primary
enclosure and shall be built so as to surround all sides of the enclosure not
adjacent to a solid wall of building. When taken outdoors, whether on or off
the owner or keeper’s premises, the dangerous animals must at all times be
muzzled and leashed with equipment which has been approved by the Chief of
Police or designee, or confined in a vehicle, cage or other animal carrier so
as to be out of the reach of passerby.
   (H)   Additional handling requirements.
      (1)   In addition to insurance and confinement, the Chief of Police or
designee shall have the authority to place additional handling requirements on
any animal which is within the scope of division (D) of this section and to
require timely compliance with the requirements. Any or all of the following
conditions may be imposed:
         (a)   The requirement that the animal be spayed or neutered at the
owner’s expense by a specific date and proof of same furnished to animal
control;
         (b)   The requirement that the animal be photographed by animal
control. And implanted at the owner’s expense with a microchip containing owner
identification information. The microchip information shall be registered with
animal control;
         (c)   The requirements that the owner and animal shall satisfactorily
complete a safety course approved by the city, at the owner’s expense.
         (d)   That the animal shall at all times be required to wear a
conspicuously colored collar with permanently affixed owner identification;
         (e)   That the owner of the animal has posted on the premises a
clearly visible written warning sign to be approved by the Chief of Police or
designee stating that there is a dangerous animal on the property with a
conspicuous warning symbol that informs children of the presence of a dangerous
animal. The sign shall be very visible from the public roadway or 50 feet,
whichever is less; and
         (f)   That the animal has current rabies vaccination and furnish proof
of same to animal control.
   (I)   Removal and order for euthanasia. When the Chief of Police or designee
determines that the owner has failed to keep an animal in compliance with the
standards set forth in this chapter, the Chief of Police or designee shall
order in writing that an owner shall have an animal humanely euthanized within
ten days of the order. Failure to comply with the Chief of Police or designee’s
order shall be a violation of this section.
   (J)   Appeal procedures.
      (1)   Appeal of euthanasia order.
         (a)   Any person who receives an order from the Chief of Police or
designee requiring that a dangerous domestic animal be removed and euthanized
as provided in division (I) of this section may appeal the order by filing a
written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within seven days of the date of
the order. The written appeal shall state the grounds of the appeal, including
how the person proposes to keep the dangerous domestic animal in a manner that
is in compliance with the standards set out in this chapter, and how the person
proposes to reduce the risk of harm that the dangerous domestic animal poses to
the public.
         (b)   Upon receiving a notice of appeal, a hearing shall be convened,
chaired by the Chief of Police or designee, to receive any testimony or other
evidence that is deemed appropriate concerning the euthanasia order.
         (c)   When an appeal has been filed, the city shall make a reasonable
effort to notify any persons who would have had direct involvement in the
situation which led to the euthanasia order, including those persons who were
injured or who are owners or keepers of any animals which were injured by the
dangerous domestic animal.
         (d)   The appeal shall be heard by a committee appointed by the city
and consisting of a minimum of three people, including a member of the public,
an animal professional, and a city officer or designee.
         (e)   Following such hearing, the committee shall issue a written
decision within ten days from the date of the hearing, and may:
            1.   Uphold the decision of the chief of police or designee and
order the dangerous animal to be destroyed; or
            2.   Modify or reverse the decision; after which the Chief of
Police or designee shall take such action as is necessary to carry out the
decision of the committee.
         (f)   The decision of the committee and the reasons for it shall be
summarized in writing and provided to the person who filed the appeal.
      (2)   Appeal of registration requirement.
         (a)   Any person who receives an order from the Chief of Police or
designee requiring that a dangerous domestic animal be registered as provided
in division (E) may appeal the order by filing a written notice of the appeal
to the City Clerk within seven days of the date of the order. The written
appeal shall state the grounds of the appeal.
         (b)   Upon receiving a notice of appeal, a hearing shall be convened,
chaired by the Chief of Police or designee, to receive any testimony or other
evidence that is deemed appropriate concerning the registration requirement.
         (c)   When an appeal has been filed, the city shall make a reasonable
effort to notify any persons who would have had direct involvement in the
situation which led to the registration requirement.
         (d)   The appeal shall be heard by a committee appointed by the city
and consisting of a minimum of three people, including a member of the public,
an animal professional, and a city officer or designee.
         (e)   Following such hearing, the committee shall issue a written
decision within ten days from the date of the hearing, and may:
            1.   Uphold the decision of the Chief of Police or designee and
order the registration requirement to be complied with; or
            2.   Modify or reverse the decision; after which the Chief of
Police or designee shall take such action as is necessary to carry out the
decision of the committee.
         (f)   The decision of the committee and the reasons for it shall be
summarized in writing and provided to the person who filed the appeal.
   (K)   Lift of registration requirements. If any animal previously determined
to be subject to a registration as a dangerous domestic animal has not
exhibited any of the behaviors specified under division (D) for a period of 36
months since the date of the registration, then that animal is eligible for a
review of the determination with a potential for a hearing on removing the
registration requirements. Application for such review shall be the
responsibility of the owner and must be filed with the City Clerk. The review
shall be completed by a committee appointed by the Chief of Police and
consisting of a minimum of three people, including a member of the public, an
animal professional, and a city officer or his/her designee.
   (L)   Reporting of incidents required. It shall be the duty of any person
having knowledge of an incident in which any domestic animal has caused serious
injury to a person or another domestic animal to report that incident within 24
hours of its occurrence. Failure to do so is a violation punishable as a
municipal infraction.
   (M) Police services dogs exempt. Police service dogs which are in active use
by a law enforcement agency shall be exempt from the provisions of this
chapter.
§ 4-2-10 IMMUNIZATION.
   No dog or cat which has attained the age of six months shall be permitted
within the city unless vaccinated with antirabies vaccine and such dog or cat
must have a collar affixed to such dog or cat displaying a tag showing that
said dog or cat has been vaccinated with antirabies vaccine within the period
of two years last past.
§ 4-2-11 AT LARGE—IMPOUNDMENT.
   Animals found at large in violation of this chapter shall be seized and
impounded, or, at the discretion of the peace officer, the owner may be served
a summons to appear before a proper court to answer charges made thereunder.
§ 4-2-12 DISPOSITION OF LICENSED DOGS.
   Owners of licensed dogs which have been impounded shall be notified within
two days from impoundment that upon payment of impounding costs the dog will be
returned. If impounded licensed dogs are not recovered by their owners within
seven days after notice, the dogs shall be disposed of in a humane manner as
directed by the council.
§ 4-2-13  DISPOSITION OF UNLICENSED ANIMALS.
   Impounded unlicensed dogs or other animals may be recovered by the owner,
upon proper identification, presenting evidence of compliance with this chapter
and by payment of the impounding costs. If such dogs or other animals are not
claimed within seven days after impoundment they shall be disposed of in a
humane manner as directed by the council.
§ 4-2-14  IMPOUNDMENT COSTS.
   Impounding costs shall be established by resolution of the council upon
recommendation of the City Manager.
DOG LICENSING
§ 4-2-25  ANNUAL LICENSE.
   Every owner of a dog over the age of six months shall procure a dog license
from the County Auditor as required by state law.
§ 4-2-26  EXEMPTION FOR KENNEL DOGS.   
   Kennel dogs which are kept or raised solely for the bona fide purpose of
sale and which are kept under constant restraint are not subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
§ 4-2-27 ANIMAL WASTE.
   It is unlawful for any owner, keeper or walker of a dog, cat or other animal
to permit said animal to discharge its feces upon any public or private
property within the city limits other than the property of the owner of the
animal unless the animal’s feces is immediately thereafter removed from the
public or private property and disposed of in a sanitary manner. All
structures, yards or pens wherein any dog, cat or other animal is confined must
be kept clean and free of odors caused by urine and/or feces.
TITLE 5: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
   Chapter
      
1.   TRAFFIC CODE
CHAPTER 1: TRAFFIC CODE
Section
5-1-1   Purpose
5-1-2   Short title
5-1-3   Definitions
5-1-4   Required obedience to chapter and state law
5-1-5   Stop required
5-1-6   Maximum speed
5-1-7   Speed signs
5-1-8   Stopping or parking, parking in alley regulations, and lawful parking
distance from roadway
5-1-9   Exceptions
5-1-10   Parking in alleys
5-1-11   Posting of “no parking” signs
5-1-12   Authority to install traffic-control devices
5-1-13   Load restrictions
5-1-14   Penalties
Cross-reference:
   Alley Vacations, see Appendix of Special Ordinances Table IV
   Street Name Changes; Width Specifications, see Appendix of Special
Ordinances Table III
§ 5-1-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate traffic upon and use of the
streets of the city and to provide penalties for violations of these
regulations.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 1) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 5-1-2 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be known and cited as the “Traffic Code”.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 2) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 5-1-3 DEFINITIONS.
   Where words and phrases used in this chapter are defined by Iowa Code Ch.
321, such definitions shall apply to this chapter.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 3) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 5-1-4 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO CHAPTER AND STATE LAW.
   (A)   Any person who shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any
lawful order of a police officer or direction of a Fire Department officer
during a fire, or who shall fail to abide by the provisions of this chapter and
applicable provisions of this chapter of the following statutory laws relating
to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   These sections of the code are:
      (1)   321.32, 321.174, 321.190, 321.193 and 321.218 through 321.224,
display of registration and license to drive;
      (2)   321.229 through 321.234, obedience to a peace officer and
responsibility of public officers, emergency vehicles and bicycles to obey
traffic regulations;
      (3)   321.256 through 321.266, traffic signs, signals and markings;
      (4)   321.261 through 321.266 and 231.268, accidents and accident
reporting;
      (5)   321.275, operation of motorcycles;
      (6)   321.283 through 321.288 and 321.294 through 321.296, reckless
driving, drag racing, speed, control of vehicle and minimum speed;
      (7)   321.297 through 321.310, driving on right, meeting, overtaking,
following or towing;
      (8)   321.311 through 321.318, turning or starting, signals on turning
and stopping;
      (9)   321.319 through 321.324, right-of-way;
      (10)   321.319 through 321.334 and 321.340, pedestrian rights and duties
and safety zones;
      (11)   321.341 through 321.344, railroad crossings;
      (12)   321.353 through 321.360, stop at sidewalks, stopping, standing and
parking;
      (13)   321.362 through 321.371, unattended vehicle, obstructing driver’s
view, crossing median, following fire apparatus or crossing fire hose and
putting glass and the like on streets;
      (14)   321.384 through 321.409, 321.415, 321.418 through 321.412,
lighting equipment required and time of use; (Under the provisions of Iowa Code
§ 321.395, motor vehicles parked where permitted by this chapter need not have
parking lamps lighted if the vehicle is within 160 feet of a city street light
ahead and to the rear of the vehicle and the permitted speed on said street is
25 mph or less.)
      (15)   321.430 through 321.443 and 321.447 through 321.450, brakes,
horns, sirens, mufflers, wipers, mirrors, tires, flares, windows, safety belts
and special markings for transporting explosives; and
      (16)   321.452 through 321.463, 321.465 and 321.466, size, weight and
load.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 4) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 5-1-5 STOP REQUIRED.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following
intersections as set forth:
Intersection Location
Intersection                  Location
                              Stop signs are placed at the northeast, southwest
Elm and Front Streets         and southeast corners of said intersection,
                              requiring traffic to come to a complete stop from
                              three directions
                              Stop signs are placed at the northwest and
Front and Leighton Streets    southeast corners of said intersection, requiring
                              all traffic to come to a complete stop from the
                              north and south
                              Stop signs are placed at the northwest,
Kilbourn and Sheridan Streets southwest, northeast and southeast corners of
                              said intersection, requiring all traffic to come
                              to a complete stop from all directions
                              Stop signs are placed at the northwest,
Leighton and Grant Streets    southwest, northeast and southeast corners of
                              said intersection, requiring traffic to come to a
                              complete stop from all directions
                              Stop signs are placed at the northwest,
Leighton and Sheridan Streets southwest, northeast and southeast corners of
                              said intersection, requiring all traffic to come
                              to a complete stop from all directions
                              Stop signs are placed at the northwest,
Reid and Grant Streets        southwest, northeast and southeast corners of
                              said intersection, requiring traffic to come to a
                              complete stop from all directions
                              Stop signs are placed at the northwest,
Sherman and Leighton Streets  southwest, northeast and southeast corners of
                              said intersection, requiring all traffic to come
                              to a complete stop from all directions
                              Stop signs are placed at the northwest,
Sherman and Williams Streets  southwest, northeast and southeast corners of
                              said intersection, requiring all traffic to come
                              to a complete stop from all directions
                              Stop signs are placed on the southwest and
Williams and Grant Streets    northeast corners of Williams Street, requiring
                              traffic to come to a complete stop on Williams
                              Street
                              Stop signs are placed at the northwest, southwest
Williams and Sheridan Streets and southeast corners of said intersection,
                              requiring traffic to come to a complete stop from
                              three directions
 
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 5) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985; Ord. passed 7-6-2004;
Ord. passed 8-2-2005)
§ 5-1-6 MAXIMUM SPEED.
   The maximum speed of any vehicle in any city limits shall be 25 m.p.h.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 7) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 5-1-7 SPEED SIGNS.
   On all main highways, except on the extensions of primary roads, on which
the Highway Commission shall furnish and place suitable signs, the municipality
shall furnish and place suitable signs, showing the points at which the rate of
speed changes and the maximum rate of speed in the district in which the
vehicle is entering.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 8) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 5-1-8 STOPPING OR PARKING, PARKING IN ALLEY REGULATIONS, AND LAWFUL PARKING
DISTANCE FROM ROADWAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to stop or park a vehicle on the street, except
when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the
other traffic, or in compliance with the directions of a peace officer or
traffic-control device, in the City of Beacon.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to stop or park a vehicle onto or upon privately
owned property without the consent of the owner, lessee or person in charge of
such privately owned property. All parking spaces shall provide a clearance of
at least 24 inches from the edge of the roadway's pavement to the vehicle. Off-
street parking spaces shall be designed to provide visibility of and between
pedestrians and vehicles when circulating within or leaving a residence; and
shall not create blind, hidden, or hazardous areas. 
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 9) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985; Am. Ord. Art. 5, Ch.
15, passed 5-7-2024)
§ 5-1-9 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of §
5-1-9 of this chapter in regard to stopping a vehicle shall not apply in cases
of emergency, when the stop is made to avoid accident or allow pedestrians or
vehicles to cross in front of such vehicle, or when made in obedience to a
signal of a police officer.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 10) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 5-1-10 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any street or highway at any
time. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in any alley in the city at any
time. The provisions of this section shall not apply in cases of sudden
emergency.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 11) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985; Ord. passed 5-5-1992)
§ 5-1-11 POSTING OF “NO PARKING” SIGNS.
   The streets and alleys on which parking is prohibited by §
5-1-11 of this chapter shall be so designated with the posting of “no parking”
signs.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 12) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985; Ord. passed 5-5-1992)
§ 5-1-12 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Mayor shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic-control devices
when and as required under the ordinances of the city to make effective its
provisions, and may so cause to be placed and maintained such additional,
emergency or temporary traffic-control devices for the duration of an emergency
or temporary condition as traffic conditions may require to regulate traffic
under the traffic ordinances of the city or state law or to guide or warn
traffic.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 13) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 5-1-13 LOAD RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall
operate any vehicle with a gross weight in excess of eight tons on the
following streets:
 
Street          Location
Grant Street    Between Elm Street and Williams Street
Kilbourn Street East of Sheridan Street
Leighton Street All
Reed Street     All
Sheridan Street Between Kilburn Street and Williams Street
Williams Street Between Front Street and Sheridan Street
 
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle with steel lugs, nor any tracked
vehicle, upon any street within the city.
   (B)   Anyone violating any of the provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $100.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 4, § 1) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 5-1-14 PENALTIES.
   Anyone violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $100.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 14) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
TITLE 6: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
   Chapter
      
1.   SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR; SNOW REMOVAL
      
2.   ALLEYS
      
3.   BEACON CITY PARK
      
4.   BEACON CITY HALL
      
5.   RAILROADS
CHAPTER 1: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR; SNOW REMOVAL
Section
6-1-1   Purpose
6-1-2   Definition
6-1-3   Repair, replacement or reconstruction by property owners
6-1-4   Authority of city to construct or repair
6-1-5   Preliminary procedure
6-1-6   Valuation
6-1-7   Plat, schedule and estimate; adoption
6-1-8   Resolution of necessity
6-1-9   Hearing; notice
6-1-10   Certification to County Clerk
6-1-11   Alternative construction and repair
6-1-12   Filing adoption and certification
6-1-13   Assessment of cost and limitation; payment
6-1-14   Relevy
6-1-15   Specification for construction
6-1-16   Removal of snow, ice and accumulations
6-1-17   Penalty
§ 6-1-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to specify the procedure to be followed by
the Council in ordering the construction, repair, replacement or reconstruction
of sidewalks.
(Prior Code, Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 1) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-1-2 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the term SIDEWALK shall mean that portion
of a street between the curb lines or the lateral lines of a roadway and the
adjacent property lines intended for the use of pedestrians.
(Prior Code, Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 2) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-1-3 REPAIR, REPLACEMENT OR RECONSTRUCTION BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   The Council may serve notice on the abutting property owner by
certified mail to the property owners as shown by the records of the County
Auditor, requiring him or her to repair, replace or reconstruct sidewalks.
   (B)   If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required
under division (A) above within a reasonable time, the Council may perform the
required action and assess the costs against the abutting property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Prior Code, Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 3) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-1-4 AUTHORITY OF CITY TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR.
   Except as provided in §
6-1-3 of this chapter, a plan for construction or repair of any permanent
sidewalk may be initiated either:
   (A)   By a written contract to be approved by the city and signed by all of
the owners of record of all property who would be affected by an assessment
made to finance the construction or repair; or
   (B)   Upon the Council’s own motion.
(Prior Code, Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 4) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-1-5 PRELIMINARY PROCEDURE.
   (A)   When the Council deems it necessary to construct or repair any
permanent sidewalk under the provisions of §
6-1-4 of this chapter, it shall proceed as follows:
      (1)   Arrange for engineering services to prepare the plats, schedules,
estimate of cost, plans and specifications and to supervise construction of the
proposed improvement; and
      (2)   Adopt a preliminary resolution by the vote of a majority of all
members of the Council which shall contain a description of the types or
alternate types of improvement proposed; the beginning and terminal points or
general location of the proposed improvement; and a general description of the
property or a designation of the lots which the Council believes will be
specifically benefitted by the improvement.
   (B)   The preliminary resolution must be adopted with substantially the
following wording:
 
BE IT RESOLVED by the Council of the City of Beacon, Iowa:
 
That the Council shall prepare preliminary work and a plat and schedule and file them with the Clerk
for the construction (or repair) of a permanent sidewalk adjoining and abutting lot(s)              
in block(s)              of the City of Beacon, Iowa, which lots will, in the belief of the Council,
be specially benefited by the construction (or repair) of the sidewalk.
 
(Prior Code, Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 5) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-1-6 VALUATION.
   (A)   Upon completion of the plat, the Council shall determine what the
valuation of each lot within the proposed assessment district will be after the
improvement is completed and is to show this valuation on the schedule before
it is filed with the Clerk.
   (B)   The valuation of each lot is to be its present fair market value with
the proposed public improvement completed.
   (C)   As an aid in determining these valuations, the Council may appoint a
committee of three persons skilled in the knowledge of real estate values
within the city to appraise the fair market value of each lot within the
district and to file a written report of its appraisals with the Council.
(Prior Code, Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 6) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-1-7 PLAT, SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATE; ADOPTION.
   (A)   When the plat, schedule and estimate of costs have been filed, the
Council may, before adopting a proposed resolution of necessity, cause the
estimate, valuation or assessment of any lot or the boundaries of the district,
and shall adopt the plat, schedule and estimate as amended.
   (B)   If the plat, schedule and estimate of cost are not amended, the
Council shall adopt the plat, schedule and estimate of cost as filed.
(Prior Code, Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 7) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-1-8 RESOLUTION OF NECESSITY.
   (A)   After adopting the plat, schedule and estimate, if the Council
determines to proceed with all or any part of the public improvement, it shall
propose a resolution of necessity, including:
      (1)   A brief description of the proposed public improvement;
      (2)   A statement that an estimate of the total cost of the work and a
preliminary plat and schedule showing the amount proposed to be assessed to
each lot for the improvement are on file in the office of the City Clerk; and
      (3)   The date, time and place at which a hearing on the improvement is
to be held.
   (B)   The proposed resolution of necessity may be adopted with substantially
the following wording:
 
BE IT RESOLVED by the Council of the City of Beacon, Iowa:
 
That a permanent sidewalk of the width of           feet is to be constructed (or
repaired) of  (name of the material)  adjoining or abutting lot(s)          in the
block(s)          of the City of Beacon, Iowa. The estimate of the total cost, a plat
and a schedule of the amount proposed to be assessed to each lot is on file at the
office of the Clerk. A public hearing is to be held  (list the day, hour and place of
the hearing) , at which time the Council will hear property owners subject to the
assessment and interested parties for or against the improvement, its cost, the
assessment or the boundaries of the district. The Clerk is directed to publish notice
of the hearing in conformity with the city ordinance on sidewalk construction and
repair.
 
(Prior Code, Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 8) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-1-9 HEARING; NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   The Clerk shall publish notice of the date, time and place of
the hearing once each week for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper published
at least once weekly and having a general circulation in the city.
      (2)   The notice shall be published not less than ten, nor more than 25,
days before the date of the hearing.
      (3)   Not less than 15 days before the hearing, the Clerk shall send a
copy of the notice by certified mail to each property owner whose property is
subject to assessment for the improvement as shown by the records of the County
Auditor.
      (4)   If a property is shown to be in the name of more than one owner at
the same mailing address, a single notice may be mailed to all owners at that
address.
      (5)   Failure to receive a mailed notice is not a defense to the special
assessment.
   (B)   The notice shall be in the following form:
 
NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS
 
Notice is hereby given that there is now on file for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk, a proposed resolution of necessity, an estimate of cost
and a plat and schedule showing the amounts proposed to be assessed against each lot and the valuation of each lot within a district approved by the Council of
Beacon, Iowa, for a                                      improvement as the type(s) and in the locations(s) as follows:
 
The Council will meet at                 o’clock PM on                                 ,            , at the
                                                          at which time the owners subject to assessment for the proposed improvement or any other person having
an interest in the matter may appear and be heard for or against the making of improvement, the boundaries of the district, the cost, the assessment against any
lot or the final adoption of a resolution of necessity. A property owner will be deemed to have waived all objections unless at the time of hearing he or she
has filed objections with the Clerk.
 
                                                                                
The Clerk of Beacon, Iowa
 
(Prior Code, Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 9)
   (B)   The Council shall meet as specified in the published notice and, after
hearing, all objections and endorsements from property owners and other persons
having an interest in the matter and after considering all filed, written
objections, may adopt or amend and adopt the proposed resolution of necessity
or may defer action until a subsequent meeting. The vote of three-fourths of
all the members of the Council shall be required for passage of the resolution
of necessity, but if an objection has been filed with the Clerk signed by the
owners subject to 75% of the amount of the proposed assessments for the entire
public improvement included in the resolution of necessity, then a unanimous
vote of the Council is required for passage of the resolution of necessity. An
amendment which extends the boundaries of a district, increases the amount to
be assessed against a lot, or adds additional public improvements, is not
effective until an amended plat, schedule and estimate have been prepared and
adopted, a notice published and mailed by certified mail to all affected
property owners, and hearing held in the same manner as the original
proceedings, or until all affected property owners agree in writing to the
change. The adoption of a resolution of necessity is a legislative
determination that the improvement is expedient and proper and that property
assessed with be specially benefitted thereby. Ownership of property to be
assessed by any improvement shall not, except for fraud or bad faith,
disqualify a Council member from voting on any measure. The sidewalk resolution
of necessity may be enacted with substantially the following wording:
 
BE IT RESOLVED by the Council of the City of Beacon, Iowa:
 
A permanent sidewalk shall be constructed (or repaired) adjacent to and abutting lot(s)                     in
block(s)                  of the city, according to the specified method of construction as prescribed in the
Sidewalk Construction and Repair Ordinance.
 
(Prior Code, Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 10)
(Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-1-10 CERTIFICATION TO COUNTY CLERK.
   After adoption of the resolution of necessity, the Clerk shall certify to
the County Treasurer a copy of the resolution of necessity, the plat and the
schedule of assessments.
(Prior Code, Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 11) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-1-11 ALTERNATIVE CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR.
   After adopting a resolution of necessity, the Council may, by resolution,
order that the improvement adopted under the resolution be awarded by contract
to the lowest bidder under the period. For purposes of awarding the bid, the
Council shall provide notice to bidders and accept a contract according to the
procedures set forth for such in the Code of Iowa.
(Prior Code, Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 13) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-1-12 FILING ADOPTION AND CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the Council adopts a resolution fixing the amount
to be assessed against private property, the Mayor shall file with the Clerk an
assessment schedule showing:
      (1)   A description of the lot to be assessed;
      (2)   The valuation of each lot as fixed by the Council; and
      (3)   The amount to be assessed against each lot, which shall include the
assessment for the default fund, if any.
   (B)   Within ten days after filing of the assessment schedule, the Council
shall meet, consider and adopt or amend and adopt, by resolution, the final
assessment schedule. The resolution shall:
      (1)   Confirm and levy assessments;
      (2)   State the number of annual assessments, not exceeding 15, into
which assessments of $50 or more are divided;
      (3)   Provide for interest on all unpaid installments at not more than 7%
per annum;
      (4)   State the time when assessments are payable; and
      (5)   Direct the Clerk to certify the final schedule to the Auditor of
the county or counties in which the assessed property is located, and to
publish notice thereof once each week for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper
published at least once weekly and having a general circulation in the city,
the first publication of which shall be not more than 15 days from the filing
of the final schedule. On or before the second publication of the notice, the
Clerk shall send by certified mail to each property owner whose property is
subject to assessment for the improvement, as shown by the records in the
office of the County Auditor, a copy of the notice. If a property is shown by
the records to be in the name of more than one owner at the same mailing
address, a single notice may be mailed to all owners at that address.
   (C)   The assessment resolution may be made substantially the following
wording:
 
An assessment of $             is hereby confirmed and levied against lot(s)              in blocks
               of the city for the construction (or repair) of a permanent sidewalk. This assessment
shall be in paid in                  (not exceeding 15) annual installments of $           each, with
interest on all unpaid installments at                      (not exceeding 7% per annum. The first
installment is due and payable on January 1 next succeeding the levy, and all succeeding installments
are respectively due on January 1 annually.
 
   (D)   The City Clerk shall publish notice of the certification to the County
Auditor of this final schedule of assessment.
(Prior Code, Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 14) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-1-13 ASSESSMENT OF COST AND LIMITATION; PAYMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The total cost of an improvement must be assessed against all
lots within the assessment district in accordance with the special benefits
conferred upon the property, and not in excess of such benefits, unless the
cost is to be paid otherwise.
      (2)   No lot shall be assessed in excess of the amount of assessment as
shown in the schedule confirmed by the court if court confirmation is utilized,
but if court confirmation is not utilized, then on the ordinary plat and
schedule adopted by the Council.
      (3)   No assessment shall exceed 25% of the value of the lot as shown by
the plat and schedule approved by the Council or as reduced by the court.
      (4)   If the special assessment which may be levied against a lot is
insufficient to pay its proportion of the cost of the improvement, or if no
special assessment may be levied against a lot, the deficiency shall be paid
from the city fund or funds designated by the Council.
(Prior Code, Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 15)
   (B)   (1)   The first installment of each assessment, or the total amount if
less than $50, is due and payable on January 1 next succeeding the date of the
levy, unless the assessment is filed with the County Auditor less than 30 days
prior to January 1. The first installment shall bear interest on the whole
assessment from the date of acceptance of the work by the Council to June 1
following the due date.
      (2)   The succeeding annual installments, with interest on the whole
unpaid amount, to June 1 following the due date, are respectively due on
January 1 annually, and must be paid at the same time and in the same manner as
the March semi-annual payment or ordinary taxes.
      (3)   All future installments of an assessment may be paid on any date by
payment of the then outstanding balance, plus interest, to June 1 following the
due date of the next maturing installment.
      (4)   Each installment of an assessment with interest on the unpaid
balance is delinquent after March 31 next after its due date and bears the same
delinquent interest with the same penalties as ordinary taxes. When collected,
the interest and penalties must be credited to the same fund as the special
assessment.
      (5)   From the date of adoption of the resolution of necessity, all
special assessments with all interest and penalties become and remain a lien on
the benefitted properties until paid and have equal precedence with ordinary
taxes and are not divested by any judicial sale.
      (6)   Any property owner may elect to pay one-half of any annual
installment of principal and interest of a special assessment in advance, with
the second semi-annual payment of ordinary taxes collected in the year
preceding the due date of such installment.
      (7)   Assessments levied and certified under the provisions of this
chapter, including installments and interest, are payable at the office of the
County Treasurer where the property assessed is located; except that,
assessments may be paid in full and without interest within 30 days after the
date of certification at the office of the County Treasurer or the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 16)
(Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-1-14 RELEVY.
   When, by reason of non-conformity to any law or resolution, or by reason of
any omission, or informality or irregularity, any special tax or assessment
levied is determined by the Council to be invalid or is judged illegal, the
Council may correct the levy by resolution, and may reassess and relevy with
the same force and effect as if done at the proper time and in the manner
provided by law or by resolution.
(Prior Code, Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 17) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-1-15 SPECIFICATION FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   Sidewalks constructed under the provisions of this chapter shall be of the
following construction and meet the following standards.
   (A)   Portland cement shall be the only cement used in the construction and
repair of sidewalks.
   (B)   Sidewalks shall be of one-course construction.
   (C)   (1)   Concrete may be placed directly on compact and well-drained
soil.
      (2)   Where soil is not well drained, a three-inch sub-base of compact,
clean, coarse gravel, sand or cinders shall be laid.
   (D)   The sidewalk bed shall be graded to the established grade.
   (E)   Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide and three and
one-half inches thick, and each section shall be no more than four feet in
length.
   (F)   All sidewalks shall be elevated at least two inches from the height of
the adjoining pavement, where possible, and shall be elevated at least two
inches above the adjoining ground where possible.
   (G)   All sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch per foot toward the
pavement, where possible.
   (H)   All sidewalks shall be finished with a “broom” or “wood float” finish.
(Prior Code, Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 18) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-1-16 REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE AND ACCUMULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the abutting property owner to
remove snow, ice and accumulations from sidewalks within ten hours of the
accumulations of such.
   (B)   If a property owner does not remove snow, ice or accumulations within
the ten-hour period, the city may do so and assess the costs against the
property owner for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Prior Code, Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 19) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-1-17 PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $100.
(Prior Code, Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 20) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
CHAPTER 2: ALLEYS
Section
General Provisions
6-2-1   Definitions
6-2-2   Purchasing
6-2-3   Maintenance
6-2-4   Easements
6-2-5   Exceptions
Vacating Alleys
6-2-20   Power to vacate
6-2-21   Planning
6-2-22   Vacation and disposal of alleys
6-2-23   Findings required
6-2-24   Easements
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 6-2-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADJACENT HOMEOWNER. Person or persons whose name appears on the deed of the
property on the adjacent side of the alley from the interested homeowner.
   ALLEY. Parcel of land owned by the city, as indicated on the city plat map.
ALLEYS that intersect are considered separate ALLEYS so as not to assume the
alley on the north of the homeowners property is the same parcel of land as the
alley running on the east side of the homeowners property, or any other
combination as applicable.
   INTERESTED HOMEOWNER. Person or persons who have shown interest in
purchasing a city- owned alley.
   UNUSABLE ALLEY. An alley is considered UNUSABLE to the public if it is not
being maintained by either the city or by any of the abutting homeowners who
utilize the alley as a driveway for the stretch of the alley in between
intersections.
   USEABLE ALLEY. An alley that is being maintained by either the city or by
any homeowner abutting the alley who is utilizing the alley as a driveway.
(Prior Code, Art. X, Ch. 1, § 1) (Ord. passed 10-5-2010)
§ 6-2-2 PURCHASING.
   (A)   Homeowners with abutting property lines to an alley may request the
alley be vacated so they may purchase the alley.
   (B)   The following guidelines and restrictions apply to purchasing an
alley:
      (1)   Purchase price of alley is set at $0.25 per square foot plus any
additional fees incurred;
      (2)   Interested homeowner must notify homeowner of adjacent property of
the alley in question informing the adjacent homeowner there is intent of
purchasing said alley. The interested homeowner must offer the adjacent
homeowner the option to purchase on half of the respective alley.
         (a)   If an adjacent homeowner is not willing to buy half of the
abutting alley closest to his or her property line, the adjacent homeowner has
the option to allow the interested homeowner to buy the entire alley abutting
his or her property.
         (b)   If the adjacent homeowner allows the interested homeowner to
purchase the entire alley, the interested homeowner must provide a signature
from adjacent homeowner agreeing to the sale to the City Council.
         (c)   If the adjacent homeowner does not wish to have the alley sold,
then the interested homeowner will be denied the request to purchase any part
of the alley abutting his or her property by the City Council.
         (d)   If the adjacent homeowner is interest in purchasing half of the
abutting alley in question closest to his or her property line they will be
required to comply with all other restrictions and requirements the interested
homeowner must follow.
      (3)   Interested homeowner and adjacent homeowner (if applicable) must
submit cost of filing fees at the court house;
      (4)   Interested homeowner and adjacent homeowner (if applicable) must
provide half of the worth of the portion of alley he or she will be purchasing.
Half the worth is based on the purchase price of the alley per square foot,
multiplied by the length of the property of the abutting homeowner, multiplied
by 20 feet for the entire width of the alley if the interested homeowner is
purchasing the entire alley or multiplied by ten feet if the alley is being
purchased by the interested homeowner and the adjacent homeowner;
      (5)   The City Council must make a motion to approve the sale of the
alley; and
      (6)   The City Clerk must file paperwork with court house.
(Prior Code, Art. X, Ch. 1, § 2) (Ord. passed 10-5-2010)
§ 6-2-3 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the abutting homeowners to maintain
the alleys in the city.
   (B)   Snow removal will be the responsibility of the abutting homeowners for
alleys that are deemed useable alleys in the city.
      (1)   The cost of the snow removal will be an evenly split cost at the
expense of both homeowners abutting said alley.
      (2)   Gravel for useable alleys will be provided to the homeowners
abutting the alley at the expense, or by means of, the city. The homeowners
abutting the alley will be responsible for the expense of the gravel evenly
split between the abutting homeowners.
      (3)   Any unusable alley must be mowed and maintained in accordance to §§
3-2-1 through
3-2-7 of this code of ordinances and seeded with grass as if it part of the
abutting homeowner’s lawn. It shall be unlawful for anyone beside the residents
of the abutting homeowner to utilize an alley deemed unusable.
      (4)   Snow, gravel and/or dirt removed from t he alley while removing
snow from the alley must not exceed a height of four feet within ten feet of
the outer defined boundaries of the alley, nor may the piling of snow exceed
four feet within ten feet of the outer edges of the streets.
      (5)   Snow removed from the alley and/or driveways must be cleared from
city property and by the individual(s) removing the snow. The removal of snow
from alleys and driveways must be pushed back on to the abutting homeowner’s
property.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to push or pile snow from a
property that is not abutting the homeowners property where the snow is being
removed to another homeowners property, nor city- owned property that does not
include the property between the city street and the homeowners property
causing the snow to be removed.
(Prior Code, Art. X, Ch. 1, § 3) (Ord. passed 10-5-2010)
§ 6-2-4 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   The city maintains easement rights for any alley owned by the city or
sold to homeowners by the city.
   (B)   For this reason, the following restrictions apply.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to plant anything in an alley owned by the
city or sold to homeowners by the city.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to build anything within four feet of an alley
owned by the city or sold to the homeowner by the city.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to block any alley owned by the city. Blocking
is considered when any type of object or material (including organic) is
located in the alley and an emergency vehicle would be unable to pass through
the alley without avoiding the object or material.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to place any object or material (including
organic) in the alley.
(Prior Code, Art. X, Ch. 1, § 4) (Ord. passed 10-5-2010)
§ 6-2-5 EXCEPTIONS.
   The city has the right to allow exceptions to the provisions of this
subchapter as stated.
   (A)   The City Council has the right to deem an alley useable if the City
Council has spoken with the homeowners abutting a given alley and the
homeowners refuse to purchase the alley. If the City Council deems an alley
useable that was considered unusable, the City Council has the authority to ask
the homeowner of abutting alley to remove any trees, shrubs or any other
planted material that had been placed in alley prior to 90 days of the approval
of this subchapter.
   (B)   Alleys owned by the abutting homeowner that have buildings on the said
alley that have been established prior to 90 days of the approval of this
subchapter are considered part of the alley and the homeowner will not have to
remove the building.
   (C)   Trees, shrubbery and plants that were established prior to 90 days in
an unusable alley will be considered part of the alley and will not need to be
removed by the abutting homeowners.
(Prior Code, Art. X, Ch. 1, § 5) (Ord. passed 10-5-2010)
VACATING ALLEYS
§ 6-2-20 POWER TO VACATE.
   When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of
the city to vacate an alley, portion thereof or any public grounds, the Council
may do so by resolution in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 8, § 1) (Ord. passed 2-6-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Iowa Code § 364.12(2)(a)
§ 6-2-21 PLANNING.
   Any proposal to vacate an alley, portion thereof or any public grounds shall
be referred to the Council for its study and recommendation prior to further
consideration by the Council. The Council shall submit a written report
including recommendations to the property owner within 30 days after the date
of the proposed vacation.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 8, § 2) (Ord. passed 2-6-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Iowa Code § 392.1
§ 6-2-22 VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF ALLEYS.
   The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the
time at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered. Letters shall be sent
to all abutting property owners.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 8, § 3) (Ord. passed 2-6-2007)
§ 6-2-23 FINDINGS REQUIRED.
   No alley, portion thereof or any public grounds shall be vacated unless the
Council finds that:
   (A)   The alley, portion thereof or any public ground proposed to be vacated
is not needed for the use of the public and, therefore, its maintenance at
public expense is no longer justified;
   (B)   The proposed vacation will not deny owners of property abutting on the
street or alley reasonable access to their property; and
   (C)   Only abutting property owners may request and accept ownership of
alleys.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 8, § 4) (Ord. passed 2-6-2007)
§ 6-2-24 EASEMENTS.
   No permanent buildings or structures of any kind may be placed upon these
vacated alleys, whether they have utilities on them or not.
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 8, § 5) (Ord. passed 2-6-2007)
CHAPTER 3: BEACON CITY PARK
Section
6-3-1   Closing hours
§ 6-3-1 CLOSING HOURS.
   There is hereby created an ordinance which requires the closing of the
Beacon City Park from 9:30 p.m. until 7:00 a.m. every day of the year. This
shall exclude government and City Hall rental.
(Prior Code, Art. 13, Ch. 1) (Ord. passed 8-1-1995)
CHAPTER 4: BEACON CITY HALL
Section
General Provisions
6-4-1   Purpose
6-4-2   Definition
6-4-3   Deposit
6-4-4   Release
6-4-5   Alcoholic beverages
6-4-6   Right of refusal
City Hall Custodian
6-4-20   Purpose
6-4-21   Duties
6-4-22   Release and rental agreement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 6-4-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish rules and regulations
concerning the use and rental of the City Hall by individuals, groups or
organizations.
(Prior Code, Art. 11, Ch. 1, § 1) (Ord. passed 10-6-2009)
§ 6-4-2 DEFINITION.
   For use in this subchapter, the CITY HALL shall be defined as the City Hall
and the outside shelter.
(Prior Code, Art. 11, Ch. 1, § 2) (Ord. passed 10-6-2009)
§ 6-4-3 DEPOSIT.
   Any individual, group or organization desiring to rent the City Hall for a
particular function may be required to pay to the City Clerk a deposit in an
amount to be determined by the City Council. This deposit is a refundable
damage deposit in the event that there are no damages inflicted upon the
building during the function. The deposit shall be returned to the individual,
group or organization by the Clerk within 30 days after the function. If the
deposit is not returned, the Clerk will provide the individual, group or
organization with a written statement itemizing the damages and the reasons for
retaining the deposit. If the damages are greater than the deposit, the city
reserves the right to proceed with appropriate legal action against the
individuals, group or organization to recover for the damage sustained above
the amount of deposit.
(Prior Code, Art. 11, Ch. 1, § 3) (Ord. passed 10-6-2009)
§ 6-4-4 RELEASE.
   In addition to requiring a deposit as provided for in §
6-4-3 of this chapter, the person who is obtaining the temporary use of the
City Hall on behalf of the other individuals, groups or organizations shall be
required to sign a written release on a form provided by the City Clerk. The
terms of the release shall state that the individual, group or organization
shall release, acquit and forever discharge the city from any and all liability
whatsoever, including all claims, demands and causes of action of every nature
which may arise out of the rental of the City Hall.
(Prior Code, Art. 11, Ch. 1, § 4) (Ord. passed 10-6-2009)
§ 6-4-5 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   The City Hall will not be rented to any individuals, groups or organizations
whose function involves the consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises
of the City Hall. The release as provided in §
6-4-6 of this chapter shall include a statement to that effect, and that
signing the release warrants to the city that no alcoholic beverages will be
consumed on the premises of the City Hall.
(Prior Code, Art. 11, Ch. 1, § 5) (Ord. passed 10-6-2009)
§ 6-4-6 RIGHT OF REFUSAL.
   (A)   The City Clerk reserves the right to refuse to rent the use of the
City Hall to any individuals, group or organization if, in the judgment of the
Clerk, the use would not be in the best interests of the community.
   (B)   The decision to refuse the use of the City Hall may be appealed to the
City Council at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
(Prior Code, Art. 11, Ch. 1, § 6) (Ord. passed 10-6-2009)
CITY HALL CUSTODIAN
§ 6-4-20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the duties of the City Hall
Custodian.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 13, § 1) (Ord. passed 7-2-2012)
§ 6-4-21 DUTIES.
   The Custodian shall:
   (A)   Inspect City Hall periodically and before each rental or scheduled
event for cleanliness, such as:
      (1)   Clean entrance of bugs around the door and steps;
      (2)   Clean floors, windows, tables, countertops and bathroom;
      (3)   Drapes are clean and hanging properly;
      (4)   Shovel snow from ramp and steps within 24 hours of snow fall; and
      (5)   Salt ramp and steps as needed.
   (B)   Inspect City Hall after each rental event to see that the clean up
list has been followed before refunding the deposit fee.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 13, § 2) (Ord. passed 7-2-2012)
§ 6-4-22 RELEASE AND RENTAL AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The rental agreement will show:
      (1)   The individual(s) renting the City Hall;
      (2)   The purpose of rental; and
      (3)   The date rented.
   (B)   The rent and deposit fee, which has been set by the City Council will
be collected at the time of reservation.
   (C)   The city will impose a fee.
   (D)   The release and rental agreement should be turned in monthly for each
Council meeting.
(Prior Code, Art. 3, Ch. 13, § 3) (Ord. passed 7-2-2012)
CHAPTER 5: RAILROADS
Section
6-5-1   Definitions
6-5-2   Speed
6-5-3   Warning signals
6-5-4   Right-of-way fencing
6-5-5   Street crossing signs and devices
6-5-6   Street crossing obstructions
6-5-7   Maintenance of crossing
6-5-8   Flying switches
6-5-9   Penalty
§ 6-5-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATOR. Any individual, partnership, corporation or other association that
owns, operates, drives or controls a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. Any steam, electric or other motor-driven engine and the
cars, if any, coupled to the engine operated on rails, but does not include
inter-urban and street cars.
(Prior Code, Art. 12, Ch. 1, § 1) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-5-2 SPEED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any railroad train through any street
crossing within the city at a speed greater than 15 mph.
(Prior Code, Art. 12, Ch. 1, § 2) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-5-3 WARNING SIGNALS.
   Operators shall sound a bell at least 60 rods before a street crossing is
reached and shall ring the bell continuously until the crossing is passed.
Operators also shall sound a whistle at least 600 feet before reaching every
intersection of the track and a street, sidewalk, alley or similar public
crossing within the city limits, unless such crossing is protected by a
mechanical warning device or flagger as required under §
6-5-5 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Art. 12, Ch. 1, § 3) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-5-4 RIGHT-OF-WAY FENCING.
   Operators owning or using rights-of-way shall fence the rights-of-way within
the corporate limits of the city in a manner reasonably calculated to protect
persons and property, except where the track is intersected by streets and
alleys.
(Prior Code, Art. 12, Ch. 1, § 4) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-5-5 STREET CROSSING SIGNS AND DEVICES.
   (A)   Operators shall erect and maintain non-mechanical warning signs on
both sides of the tracks at each intersection of the tracks and a street,
sidewalk, alley or similar public crossing within the town limits, except where
some mechanical sign, signal, device or gate or flagger is required by
resolution of the Council. Such non-mechanical signs shall be of a height and
size and utilize such lettering as to give adequate warning of such crossing.
   (B)   Whenever the Council shall deem it necessary for the safety and
convenience of the public that some mechanical sign, signal, device or gate
should be erected and maintained or flagger stationed at any street or other
public crossing, the Council, by resolution, shall order and direct the
railroad company or companies concerned to erect and maintain such sign,
signal, device or gate or to station a flagger at such crossing at the expense
of such company or companies. Any required flagger shall be stationed at such
crossing during the periods of time of each day that the Council shall
designate. The resolution shall specify the street or other public crossing at
which the sign, signal, device or gate shall be erected or flagger stationed.
After the resolution has been adopted, a copy shall be served the railroad
company or companies with a notice of the time limit for compliance.
(Prior Code, Art. 12, Ch. 1, § 5) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-5-6 STREET CROSSING OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Operators shall not obstruct with a railroad train or with standing railroad
cars any street, alley, sidewalk or similar public crossing for any period
greater than five minutes. This provision shall not apply to railroad trains
stopped at stations to load and unload passengers or to trains constantly in
motion. This requirement does apply to trains engaged in switching operations.
(Prior Code, Art. 12, Ch. 1, § 6) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-5-7 MAINTENANCE OF CROSSING.
   Operators shall construct and maintain good, sufficient and safe crossings
over any streets.
(Prior Code, Art. 12, Ch. 1, § 7) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-5-8 FLYING SWITCHES.
   No operator shall cause any railroad car or cars, unattached to any engine,
to be propelled across any intersection of the tracks and a street, alley,
sidewalk or similar public crossing, for the purpose of making a flying switch
unless some employee of the railroad shall be stationed at the intersection to
give warning of such car’s or cars’ approach.
(Prior Code, Art. 12, Ch. 1, § 8) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 6-5-9 PENALTY.
   Any person or operator who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to fine not exceeding $100.
(Prior Code, Art. 12, Ch. 1, § 9) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
TITLE 7: BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
   Chapter
      
1.   BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
      
2.   MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
3.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 1: BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
Section
7-1-1   Purpose
7-1-2   Effect on city and individual liability
7-1-3   Right to enter or stop work   
7-1-4   Permit fees; building
7-1-5   Inspections required in case of violation
7-1-6   Setting fees for additional inspections
7-1-7   Inspection certificates
7-1-8   Removal of violations
7-1-9   Technical codes adopted by reference
7-1-10   Minimum width of buildings and structures
§ 7-1-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for safety, health and public
welfare through structural strength and stability, means of egress, adequate
light and ventilation and protection to life and property from fire and hazards
incident to the design, construction, alteration, removal or demolition of
buildings and other structures; safe wiring and electrical appliances; safe gas
piping and appliances; safe heating devices; safe and sanitary design,
construction, installation, quality of materials, location, operation and
maintenance of plumbing, heating, ventilating, comfort cooling, refrigeration
systems, incinerators and other miscellaneous heat-producing appliances and
other installations, equipment and appliances regulated herein.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 2, § 1) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 7-1-2 EFFECT ON CITY AND INDIVIDUAL LIABILITY.
   The inspection and control of buildings and repair work or the granting of
certificates or the issuance of permits by inspectors shall not tend to make
the city liable on account of such control or granting of such certificates or
issuing of permits, or lessen the liability which would otherwise exist of
persons owning, installing, building or repairing such buildings or other
structures; electrical wires, apparatus, poles, conduits and the like; gas
appliances or piping; plumbing, heating or mechanical installation, appliance
or equipment; or any other activity regulated herein.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 2, § 2) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 7-1-3 RIGHT TO ENTER OR STOP WORK.
   Inspectors shall have the right at any time to enter any building or
premises in the city in the performance of official duties and to order and
compel the suspension of any work being done in violation of the provisions of
this chapter and to prohibit the use of any materials in violation of this
chapter. Inspectors shall have the power to stop any work where the same in any
way is in violation of the provisions of this chapter or in any way will affect
the health, safety or welfare of the public. Inspectors shall have the power to
cause the removal of all electrical wires or the turning off of all electrical
current where the circuits interfere with the work of the Fire Department, and
to cause the removal of all gas, sewer, water or mechanical pipes, fixtures,
equipment and appliances where the same interfere in any way with the health,
safety or welfare of the public.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 2, § 4) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 7-1-4 PERMIT FEES; BUILDING.
   Fees for permits for the construction of any building or repair thereof
shall be paid to the city as required under the Uniform Building Code. No
permit fee will be charged for churches, schools and charitable organizations.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 2, § 5) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 7-1-5 INSPECTIONS REQUIRED IN CASE OF VIOLATION.
   Additional inspections shall be required where there is reason to believe
that construction, alterations or installations are being made not in
accordance with the regulations laid down in this chapter, or when written
objections are filed by any party interested or affected by said construction
or alteration and the Council finds objections are well taken The Council
shall, in any of the above events when an additional inspection is required,
order the or inspector, as the case may be, to make said inspection and report
back such official’s or inspector’s findings to the Council within two days
from the time said inspection is required.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 2, § 6) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 7-1-6 SETTING FEES FOR ADDITIONAL INSPECTIONS.
   Whenever the Council orders an inspection to be made under the provisions of
§
7-1-6 of this chapter, it shall assess a reasonable fee adequate to cover the
cost of the inspection.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 2, § 7) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 7-1-7 INSPECTION CERTIFICATES.
   It is unlawful to use any altered, repaired or newly constructed building,
to turn on any electrical current, to use any gas appliance or piping, to use
any plumbing or to do anything for which approval is required by this chapter,
without first securing a certificate of a satisfactory inspection.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 2, § 8) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 7-1-8 REMOVAL OF VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who erects any building, structure or addition thereto, or makes
any installation or uses any equipment or appliance contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall be given ten days’ notice in writing by the Mayor to
remove the same and, if such removal is not completed within said time, the
Mayor shall cause the same to be done, and report the same to the Clerk, and
the costs of removal shall be charged to the person committing such violation.
The costs and expense may be collected by an action brought in the name of the
city against such party, or may be collected by a special assessment upon the
real estate upon which such violation occurs, all in the manner and form as
provided for special assessments.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 2, § 9) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 7-1-9 TECHNICAL CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   For the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the construction,
alteration, removal, demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and
maintenance of buildings and structures; electrical wiring, equipment and
appliances; gas piping, equipment and appliances, plumbing, heating,
ventilating, comfort cooling piping, equipment and appliances; minimum health
and safety standards in housing; and other matter regulated therein, the
following codes, copies of which are on file in the Clerk’s office, are hereby
adopted by the city and incorporated herein by reference, subject to all
deletions, modifications, amendments and conflicting provisions contained in
this code of ordinances:
   (A)   Building Code. The Uniform Building Code, latest edition, as amended,
or as otherwise provided by the Council, as recommended by the International
Conference of Building Officials;
   (B)   Housing Code. The Uniform Housing Code, latest edition, as amended, or
as otherwise provided by the Council, as recommended by the International
Conference of Building Officials;
   (C)   Electrical Code. The National Electrical Code, latest edition, as
amended, or as otherwise provided by the Council, as recommended by the
National Fire Protection Association;
   (D)   Gas Code. The Standard for the Installation of Gas Appliances Gas
Piping, latest edition, as amended, or as otherwise provided by the Council,
No. 54 by the National Fire Protection Association;
   (E)   Plumbing Code. The Uniform Plumbing Code, latest edition, as amended,
or as otherwise provided by the Council, as recommended by the International
Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials; and
   (F)   Mechanical Code. The Uniform Mechanical Code, latest edition, as
amended, or as otherwise provided by the Council, as recommended by the
International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 2, § 10) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 7-1-10 MINIMUM WIDTH OF BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   The minimum width of buildings or structures constructed or established for
use as dwellings in the city shall be not less than 22 feet wide as measured
across the narrowest dimension of the dwelling unit or units thereof; however,
the minimum width requirement shall not apply in large scale residential
developments, mobile homes and/or manufactured home courts.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 2, § 11) (Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 2: MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
7-2-1   Purpose
7-2-2   Definitions
7-2-3   Location of homes
7-2-4   Placement of mobile, modular and manufactured homes
7-2-5   Foundation requirements
7-2-6   Special permit application
7-2-7   Replacing existing homes; requirements
7-2-8   Mobile home park license and permit
7-2-9   Mobile home park area
7-2-10   Home spaces; minimum requirements
7-2-11   Penalty
§ 7-2-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for municipal regulation of mobile
homes and mobile home parks in furtherance of the public health, safety, morals
and welfare.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 1) (Ord. passed 7-6-2006)
§ 7-2-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOME. Manufactured, modular and mobile homes.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory-built structure built under authority of 42
U.S.C. § 5403 (released February 2005) and is required by federal law to
display a seal from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, with
a manufactured date not exceeding five years from present date.
   MOBILE HOME. A vehicle without motive power used or so manufactured or
constructed as to permit it being used as conveyance upon the public streets
and highways and so designed, constructed or reconstructed as will permit the
vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or more persons, but
shall also include any such vehicle with motive power not registered as a motor
vehicle in the state.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any site, lot, field or tract of land which two or more
occupied mobile homes, manufactured homes, modular homes or a combination of
the homes are harbored, either free of charge or for revenue purposes. The term
MOBILE HOME PARK shall not be construed to include mobile homes, buildings,
tents or other structures temporarily maintained by any individual, educational
institution or company on their own premises and used exclusively to house
their own labor or students.
   MODULAR HOME. A factory-built structure built on a permanent chassis which
is manufactured to be used as a place of human habitation, and is constructed
to comply with the State Building Code for Modular Factory-Built Structures and
must display the seal issued by the State Building Code Commissioner.
(Iowa Code § 435.1)
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 2) (Ord. passed 7-6-2006)
§ 7-2-3 LOCATION OF HOMES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park or place
any home on private property, city streets, alleys or highways or any public
place within the city. This does not include existing homes being used for
human habitation.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 3) (Ord. passed 7-6-2006)
§ 7-2-4 PLACEMENT OF MOBILE, MODULAR AND MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   All mobile homes placed in the city after the effective date of this chapter
shall be placed in mobile home parks. This chapter shall not affect the
placement of mobile homes placed in the city prior to 7-6-2006. A modular or
manufactured home may be placed either in a mobile home park or on building
lots in the city, but no more than one modular or manufactured home should be
placed on one lot, and shall be the only dwelling structure on said lot.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 4) (Ord. passed 7-6-2006)
§ 7-2-5 FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
   A modular home or manufactured home located outside of a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be placed on a permanent frost-free
foundation system which meets the support and anchorage requirements as
recommended by the manufacturer or required by the State Building Code. The
foundation/skirting system must be visually compatible with permanent
foundation systems of surrounding residential structures. Any such home shall
be installed in accordance with the requirements of the State Building Code.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 5) (Ord. passed 7-6-2006)
§ 7-2-6 SPECIAL PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   From and after the date of enactment of this chapter all homeowners,
for human habitation and unoccupied homes located within the city, shall apply
and obtain a permit and certificate of occupancy from the city. The application
for a special permit shall be accompanied by a non-refundable inspection fee of
$100.
   (B)   The application shall contain:
      (1)   Description of home. A detailed description of the home, including
manufacturer, year and four pictures consisting of each side of the home;
      (2)   Property description. The address, legal description and a detailed
to-scale drawing to show the placement of the home on the property;
      (3)   Intended use. The applicant must state the intended use of the
home. Permits shall be approved only for human habitation. Permits shall be
revoked if the home is found to be used for anything other than human
habitation;
      (4)   Property owner. If the applicant is not the owner, the name and
written approval of the owner of the premises upon which the home will be
located;
      (5)   Sanitation facilities. Information on sanitation facilities of the
home and those available at the place of location. City water and sewer must be
accomplished through Mahaska Rural Water prior to placement of the home. Must
include the name and address of the certified plumber;
      (6)   Duration of permit. A statement of the desired duration of the
special permit (shall not exceed 30 days);
      (7)   Permanent location. A statement that the location of the home is to
be permanent upon which the home will be located and that such home will be
subject to taxation as real estate;
      (8)   Compliance with State Building Code. Before being located, whether
permanently or for a temporary period of time allowed by a temporary permit,
all homes shall have a certificate that show the home is in compliance with the
current State Building Code as to home construction. A copy of this permit
shall be filed with the application with the Clerk; and
      (9)   Emergency and temporary parking. Emergency or temporary parking of
homes upon the streets, alleys or highways or any other public or private place
for a period not in excess of 20 hours shall not constitute a violation of §
7-2-3 of this chapter, but such parking shall be subject to any prohibitions of
regulations contained in other ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 6) (Ord. passed 7-6-2006)
§ 7-2-7 REPLACING EXISTING HOMES; REQUIREMENTS.
   All homes shall comply with the following minimum standards.
   (A)   All homes shall be habitable without substantial damage or broken
windows.
   (B)   All mobile homes shall be a minimum size of 60 feet by 12 feet.
   (C)   All homes shall not exceed five years from present date.
   (D)   Within 30 days after arrival to the property, the home shall be placed
on a permanent frost-free foundation system which meets the support and
anchorage requirements as recommended by the manufacturer or required by the
State Building Code, with the wheels and towing hitch removed. The skirting
system must be visually compatible with permanent foundation systems of
surrounding residential structures. Any such home shall be installed in
accordance with the requirements of the State Building Code.
   (E)   Tie down anchors shall be placed at least at each corner and center of
the home and each shall be able to sustain a minimum tensile strength of 2,800
pounds.
   (F)   Adequate provisions shall be made to prevent freezing of service
lines, valves and pipes. A concrete pit must be installed for the water meter.
   (G)   There is a permit fee of $150 for inspection.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 7) (Ord. passed 7-6-2006)
§ 7-2-8 MOBILE HOME PARK LICENSE AND PERMIT.
   (A)   No person or corporation shall establish, maintain, conduct or operate
a mobile home park within the city without first obtaining an annual license
therefor from the State Department of Health.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall construct, expand, remodel or
make alterations to the sanitary facilities in a mobile home park within the
city without first obtaining a permit therefor from the city.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 8) (Ord. passed 7-6-2006)
§ 7-2-9 MOBILE HOME PARK AREA.
   The area shall be two acres.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 9) (Ord. passed 7-6-2006)
§ 7-2-10 HOME SPACES; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   Minimum requirements for each home space:
   (A)   Area: 50 feet by 80;
   (B)   Size: 4,000 square feet;
   (C)   Parking: at least one off-street parking space;
   (D)   Yard: 20 feet between the homes;
   (E)   Sanitation facilities: individual water meters and sewer facilities
must be accomplished through Mahaska Rural Water prior to placement of the
home. Adequate provisions shall be made to prevent freezing of service lines,
valves and pipes. A concrete pit must be installed for the water meter; and
   (F)   Concrete slab: each lot shall be equipped with a concrete slab of
sufficient size to support the home.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 10) (Ord. passed 7-6-2006)
§ 7-2-11 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision or paragraph of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to the civil penalties of §§
1-1-25 through
1-1-33 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 13) (Ord. passed 7-6-2006)
CHAPTER 3: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
7-3-1   Statutory authority
7-3-2   Findings of fact
7-3-3   Statement of purpose
7-3-4   Lands to which chapter applies
7-3-5   Rules for interpretation of flood hazard boundaries
7-3-6   Compliance
7-3-7   Abrogation and greater restrictions
7-3-8   Interpretation
7-3-9   Warning and disclaimer of liability
7-3-10   Non-conforming uses
7-3-11   Definitions
Floodplain Management Standards
7-3-25   General
7-3-26   All development
7-3-27   Residential buildings
7-3-28   Non-residential buildings
7-3-29   All new and substantially improved structures
7-3-30   Factory-built homes
7-3-31   Utility and sanitary systems
7-3-32   Storage of materials and equipment
7-3-33   Flood-control structural works
7-3-34   Watercourse alterations or relocations
7-3-35   Subdivisions
7-3-36   Accessory structures
7-3-37   Recreational vehicles
7-3-38   Pipeline river and stream crossings
Administration
7-3-50   Floodplain Administrator
7-3-51   Floodplain development permit
7-3-52   Variances
7-3-53   Penalty
7-3-54   Amendments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 7-3-1 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The legislature of the state has, in Iowa Code Ch. 364, as amended,
delegated the power to cities to exercise any power and perform any function it
deems appropriate to protect and preserve the rights, privileges and property
of the city or of its residents, and to preserve and improve the peace, safety,
health, welfare, comfort and convenience of its residents.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § I) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-2 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare of
the community.
   (B)   These flood losses, hazards and related adverse effects are caused by:
      (1)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood
damages which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately
elevated or otherwise protected from flooding; and
      (2)   The cumulative effect of obstructions on the floodplain causing
increases in flood heights and velocities.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § I) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-3 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and preserve the rights,
privileges and property of the city and its residents and to preserve and
improve the peace, safety, health, welfare and comfort and convenience of its
residents by minimizing those flood losses described in §
7-3-2 of this chapter with provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement;
   (C)   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard; and
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained tor property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § I) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-4 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all areas having special flood
hazards within the jurisdiction of the city. For the purpose of this chapter,
the special flood hazard areas are those areas designated as Zone A on the
“Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for Mahaska County and Incorporated Areas,
City of Beacon”, Panel I9123C0250C, dated 6-16-2011, which is hereby adopted
and made a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § II) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997; Ord. passed - -)
§ 7-3-5 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The boundaries of the special flood hazard areas shall be determined
by scaling distances, on the Official Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   (B)   When an interpretation is needed as to the exact location of a
boundary, the Mayor shall make the necessary interpretation. The City Council
shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged that there is an error in any
requirement, decision or determination made by the Mayor in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § II) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997; Ord. passed - -)
§ 7-3-6 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be used and no structure shall be
located, extended, converted or structurally altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations which apply to
uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § II) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-7 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter
imposes greater restrictions, the provision of this chapter shall prevail. All
other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the
extent of the inconsistency only.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § II) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-8 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § II) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-9 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OR LIABILITY.
   The standards required by this chapter are considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes. This chapter does not imply that areas outside the
designated special flood hazard areas will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city or any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § II) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-10 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter, may be continued subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter; and
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as non-conforming uses.
   (B)   If any non-conforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred, except unless it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building or safety codes or regulations or the
cost of any alteration of a structured listed on the National Register of
Historic Places; provided that, the alteration shall net preclude its continued
designation.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § V) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. (See 100-YEAR FLOOD.)
   BASEMENT. Any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or lowest
level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. Also, see LOWEST FLOOR.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, building or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the community’s Flood Insurance Rate
Map. May also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURE.
   EXISTING FACTORY-BUILT HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A factory-built home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
   EXPANSION OF EXISTING FACTORY-BUILT HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory- built homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FACTORY-BUILT HOME. Any structure, designed for resident use, which is
wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed or assembled in
manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly end installation, on a
building site. For the purpose of this chapter, FACTORY-BUILT HOMES include
mobile homes, manufactured homes and modular homes and also includes
recreational vehicles, which are placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days and not fully licensed for an ready for highway use.
   FACTORY-BUILT HOME PARK. A parcel or contiguous parcels of lend divided into
two or more factory-built home lots for sale or lease.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or rivers or
from the unusual and rapid run-off surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation flood waters would reach at a particular site
during the occurrence of a specific flood. For instance, the 100-year flood
elevation is the elevation of flood waters related to the occurrence of the
100-year flood.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP. The official map of a community, issued by
Administrator, where the boundaries of the flood-related areas having special
hazard have been designated as in Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map prepared as part of (but
published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study which delineates both the
flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water as a
result of a flood.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. An overall program of corrective and preventive
measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of floodplains,
including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control
works, flood-proofing and floodplain management regulations.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments no structures, including utility and sanitary
facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such structures.
   FLOODWAY. The channel, of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to carry and
discharge flood waters or flood flows so that confinement of flood flows to the
floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood by more than one foot.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain, other than the floodway,
which can be filled, leveed or otherwise obstructed without causing
substantially higher flood levels or flow velocities.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Places maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior, as meeting the requirements for
individual listing of the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by
either:
         (a)   An approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR.
      (1)   The floor of the lowest enclosed area in a building including a
basement, except when all the following criteria are met:
         (a)   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic
pressure during floods with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions of §
7-3-29 of this chapter;
         (b)   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled and the
like) and used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access,
parking or store;
         (c)   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater,
furnace, electrical service) contained in the enc1osed area are located at
least one foot above the 100-year flood level; and
         (d)   The enclosed are is not a basement, as defined in this section.
      (2)   In cases where the lowest enclosed area satisfied criteria in
divisions (1)(a), (1)(b), (1)(c) and (1)(d) above, the LOWEST FLOOR is the
floor of the next highest enclosed area that does not, satisfy the criteria
above.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION (NEW BUILDINGS, FACTORY-BUILT HOME PARKS). Those structures
or development for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
effective date of the Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   NEW FACTORY-BUILT HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A factory-built home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which factory-built homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed an or after the effective
date of the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
   ONE HUNDRED (100) YEAR FLOOD. A flood, the magnitude of which has a 1%
change of being equaled or exceeded in any given year or which, on the average,
will be equaled or exceeded at least once every 100 years.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as’ a permanent dwelling, but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land within a community subject to the 100-
year flood. This land is identified as “Zone A” on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the development permit was issued; provided, the actual START of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other
improvement, was within 180 days or the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as pouring of, a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START
CF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. Any thing constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories, sheds, cabins,
factory-built homes, storage tanks and other similar uses.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any improvement to a structure which satisfied
either of the following criteria:
      (1)   (a)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the
cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
either:
            1.   Before the “start of construction” of the improvement; or
            2.   If the structure has been ‘substantially damage and is being
restored, before the damage occurred.
         (b)   The term does not, however, include any project for improvement
of a structure to comply with existing state or local health, sanitary or
safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe conditions
for the existing use. The terms also does not include any alteration of a
“historic structure”; provided, the alteration will not preclude the
structure’s designation as a “historic structure”; provided, the alteration
will not preclude the structure’s designation as a “historic structure”.
      (2)   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building
by 25% or more. All additions constructed after 6-15-1997 shall be added to any
proposed addition in determining whether the total increase in original flood
space would exceed 25%.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development fully compliant
with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § VIII) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT STANDARDS
§ 7-3-25 GENERAL.
   All uses must be consistent with the need to minimum flood damage and meet
the following applicable performance standards. Where 100-year flood data has
not been provided in the Flood Insurance Rate Map, the Department of Natural
Resources shall be contacted to compute such data.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § III) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997; Ord. passed - -)
§ 7-3-26 ALL DEVELOPMENT.
   All development within the special flood hazard areas shall:
   (A)   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
   (B)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage;
   (C)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant to
flood damage; and
   (D)   Obtain all other necessary permits from federal, state and local
governmental agencies, including approval when required from the state’s
Department of Natural Resources.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § III) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-27 RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   All new or substantially improved residential structures shall have
the lowest floor, including basement, elevated a minimum of one foot above the
100-year flood level. Construction shall, be upon compacted fill which shall,
at all points, be no lower than one foot above the 100-year flood level and
extend at such elevation at least 18 feet beyond the limits of any structure
erected thereon. Alternate methods of elevating (such as piers) may be allowed
subject to favorable consideration by the City Council, where existing
topography, street grades or other factors preclude elevating by fill. In such
cases, the methods used must be adequate to support the structure as well as
withstand the various forces and hazards associated with flooding.
   (B)   All new residential structures shall be provided with a means of
access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during the 100-year flood.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § III) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-28 NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   All new or substantially improved no non-residential buildings shall have
the lowest floor (including basement) elevated a minimum of one foot above the
100-year flood level, or together with attendant utility and sanitary systems,
be flood-proofed to such a level. When flood-proofing is utilized, a
professional engineer registered in the state shall certify that the flood-
proofing methods used are adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with the 100-
year flood; and that the structure below the 100-year flood level is water-
tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water. A record of
the certification indicating the specific elevation (in relation to National
Geodetic Vertical Datum) to which any structures are flood- proofed shall be
maintained by the Administrator.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § III) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-29 ALL NEW AND SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (i.e., including
basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs for the meeting his or her requirement must
either be certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria.
      (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided, they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
   (B)   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydro-dynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   (C)   New and substantially improved structures must be constructed with
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equal payment
and or to this service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to
prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, III) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-30 FACTORY-BUILT HOMES.
   (A)   All factory-built homes, including those placed in existing factory-
built home parks or subdivisions, shall be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that, the lowest floor of the structure is a minimum of one foot above the
100-year flood level.
   (B)   All factory-building homes, including those placed in existing
factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be anchored to resist
flotation, collapse or lateral movement. The following specific requirements
(or their equivalent) shall be met.
      (1)   Over-the-top ties shall be provided at each of the four corners of
the factory-built home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate
locations and factory-built homes less than 50 feet long requiring one
additional tie per side.
      (2)   Frame ties shall be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and factory-built homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side.
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system shall be capable of carrying
a force of 4,800 pounds.
      (4)   Any additions to a factory-built home shall be similarly anchored.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § III) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-31 UTILITY AND SANITARY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   On-site waste disposal and water supply systems shall be located or
designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system
during flooding.
   (B)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize and eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system as well as
the discharge of effluent into flood waters. Wastewater treatment facilities
(other than on-side systems) shall be provided with a level of flood protection
equal to or greater than one foot above the 100-year flood elevation.
   (C)   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system. Water supply
treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a
level of protection equal to or greater than one foot above the 100-year flood
elevation.
   (D)   Utilities, such as gas or electrical systems, shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § III) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-32 STORAGE OF MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Storage of material and equipment that are flammable, explosive or
injurious to human, animal or plant life is prohibited unless elevated a
minimum of one foot above the 100-year flood level.
   (B)   Other material and equipment must either be similarly elevated or:
      (1)   Not be subject to major flood, damage and be anchored to prevent
movement due to flood waters; or
      (2)   Is readily removable from the area within the time available after
flood warning.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § III) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-33 FLOOD-CONTROL STRUCTURAL WORKS.
   (A)   Flood-control structural works such as levees, flood walls and the
like shall provide, at a minimum, protection from a 100-year flood with a
minimum of three feet of design freeboard and shall provide for adequate
interior drainage.
   (B)   In addition, structural flood-control works shall be approved by the
Department of Natural Resources.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § III) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-34 WATERCOURSE ALTERATIONS OR RELOCATIONS.
   Watercourse alterations or relocations must be designed to maintain the
flood within the altered or relocated portion.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § III) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-35 SUBDIVISIONS.
   Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and subdivisions) shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and shall have adequate
drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage. Development associated
with subdivision proposals (including the installation of public utilities)
shall meet the applicable performance standards of this chapter. Subdivision
proposals intended for residential use shall provide all lots with a means of
access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during the 100-year flood.
Proposals for subdivisions greater than five acres or 50 lots (whichever is
less) shall include 100-year flood elevation data for those areas located
within the special flood hazard area.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § III) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-36 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Detached garages, sheds and similar structures accessory to a
residential use are exempt from the 100-year flood elevation requirements where
the following criteria are satisfied.
      (1)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation.
      (2)   The structure shall be designed to have low flood cartage
potential.
      (3)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of flood waters.
      (4)   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent, flotation which
may result in damage to other structures.
      (5)   The structure’s service facilities such as electrical and heating
equipment shall be elevated or flood-proofed to as least one foot above the
100-year flood level.
   (B)   Exemption from the 100-year flood elevation requirement for such a
structure may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of
the structure and its contents.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § III) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-37 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of §
7-3-30 of this chapter regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built homes
when the following criteria are satisfied.
      (1)   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less than
180 consecutive days.
      (2)   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
   (B)   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than 180
consecutive days and are not ready for highway use must satisfy requirements of
§
7-3-30 of this chapter regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built
homes.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § III) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-38 PIPELINE RIVER AND STREAM CROSSINGS.
   Pipeline river and stream crossings shall be buried in the streambed and
banks or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent rupture due to channel
degradation and meandering.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § III) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 7-3-50 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Mayor is hereby appointed to implement and administer the
provisions of this chapter and will herein be referred to as the
“Administrator”.
   (B)   Duties of the Administrator shall include, but not necessarily be
limited to the following:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permit applications to assure
that the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied;
      (2)   Review floodplain development applications to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, state and local governmental
agencies, including approval when required from the Department of Natural
Resources for floodplain construction;
      (3)   Record and maintain a record of the elevation (in relation to North
American Vertical Datum) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures in the special flood hazard area;
      (4)   Record and maintain a record of the elevation (in relation to North
American Vertical Datum) to which all new or substantially improved structures
have been flood-proofed;
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities/counties and the Department of Natural
Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a watercourse and
submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency; and
      (6)   Keep a record of all permits, appeals and such other transactions
and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § IV) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997; Ord. passed - -)
§ 7-3-51 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. A floodplain development permit issued by the
Administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development (any human-
made change to improved and unimproved real estate, including, but not limited
to, buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, excavation
or drilling operations), including the placement of factory-built homes.
   (B)   Application for permit. Application shall be made on forms furnished
by the Administrator and shall include the following:
      (1)   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made;
      (2)   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done
(i.e., lot, block, track, street address or similar description) that will be
readily identified and locate the work to be done;
      (3)   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended;
      (4)   Elevation of the 100-year flood;
      (5)   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum) of the
lowest floor (including basement) of buildings or of the level to which a
building is to be flood-proofed;
      (6)   For buildings being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost of
improvements and market value of the building prior to the improvements; and
      (7)   Such other information as the Administrator deems reasonably
necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this chapter.
   (C)   Action on permit application. The Administrator shall, within a
reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed floodplain
development meets the applicable standards of this chapter and shall approve or
disapprove the application. For disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed,
in writing, of the specific reasons therefor. The Administrator shall not issue
permits for variances, except as directed by the City Council.
   (D)   Construction and use to be as provided in application and plans.
Floodplain development permits based on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement or
construction. Any use, arrangement or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor,
as appropriate, registered in the state, that the finished fill, building floor
elevations, flood-proofing or other flood protection measures were accomplished
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the use or
occupancy of any structure.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § IV) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997; Ord. passed - -)
§ 7-3-52 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The City Council may authorize, upon request in specific cases, such
variances from the terms or this chapter that will not be contrary to the
public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship.
   (B)   Variances granted must meet the following applicable standards.
      (1)   Variances shall only be granted upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of the variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local codes or ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the 100-year flood would result. Consideration
of the effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the
assumption that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly
situated lands.
      (3)   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood
protection for buildings than what is ordinarily required by this chapter, the
applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Administrator
that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance will result in increased premium
rates for flood insurance; and
         (b)   Such construction increases risks to life and property.
   (C)   In passing upon applications for variances, the Board shall consider
all relevant factors specified in other sections of this chapter and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or
downstream to the injury of others;
      (3)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions;
      (4)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (5)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the city;
      (6)   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location;
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use;
      (8)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
      (9)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
floodplain management program for the area;
      (10)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
      (11)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood water expected at the site;
      (12)   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems), facilities, streets and bridges; and
      (13)   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this
chapter.
   (D)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above, the Council may attach
such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further
the purpose of this chapter. Such conditions may include, but not necessarily
be limited to:
      (1)    Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities;
      (2)   Limitation of periods of use and operation;
      (3)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties and deed restrictions;
      (4)   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees and other protective measures; provided, such are approved by the
Department of Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative
to achieving the purpose of this chapter; and
      (5)   Flood-proofing measures.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § IV) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-53 PENALTY.
   Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any
of the requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates
this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not more than $100. Nothing herein contained
prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy violation.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § VI) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
§ 7-3-54 AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may from time to
time be amended, supplemented, changed or repealed.
(Prior Code, Art. 15, Ch. 1, § VII) (Ord. passed 5-6-1997)
TITLE 8: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
1.   NEW SUBDIVISIONS AND RESUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1: NEW SUBDIVISIONS AND RESUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
8-1-1   Short title
8-1-2   Purpose
8-1-3   Definitions
8-1-4   Variances
8-1-5   Changes and amendments
8-1-6   Penalty
Platting Procedures and Requirements
8-1-20   Platting required
8-1-21   Procedure
8-1-22   Preliminary plat requirements
8-1-23   Preliminary plat referral; action by Council
8-1-24   Final plat requirements
8-1-25   Final plat referral; action by Council
8-1-26   Final plat attachments
8-1-27   General design requirements
8-1-28   Improvements required; completion
8-1-29   Performance bond
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 8-1-1 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “The City of Beacon, Iowa,
Subdivision Control Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 1) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 8-1-2 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is establish minimum standards for the design,
development and improvement of all new subdivisions and resubdivisions so that
existing developments will be protected and so that adequate provisions are
made for public services and to promote the health, safety and general welfare
in the city.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 2) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 8-1-3 DEFINITIONS.
   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; the singular shall
include the plural; the plural shall include the singular; and, the term
“shall” shall always be mandatory. For the purpose of this chapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public right-of way, other than a street, affording secondary means
of access to abutting property.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by
streets or highways and/or the exterior boundaries of the subdivision.
   BUILDING LINES. A line on a plat between which line and public right-of-way
no buildings or structures may be erected.
   CLERK. The City Clerk of the City of Beacon, Iowa.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Beacon, Iowa.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street having one end open to traffic and terminated by
a vehicular turn-around.
   EASEMENT. A grant of the right to use a strip of land for specific purposes
by the general public, a corporation or certain persons.
   LOT. A portion of the subdivision or other parcel of land intended for the
purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or for building
development.
   MAJOR STREET. A street of considerable continuity connecting various
sections of a city designed as a major street on the official major street plan
of the city.
   MINOR STREET. A street which is used primarily for access to the abutting
properties.
   PERFORMANCE BOND. A surety bond or cash deposit made out to the city, in an
amount equal to the full cost of the improvements which are required by this
chapter, said cost estimated by the city, and said surety bond or cash bond
being legally sufficient to secure to the city that the said improvements will
be constructed in attendance with this chapter.
   PLAT. A map, drawing or chart on which the subdivided plan of the
subdivision of land is presented in which he or she submits for approval and
intends in final form to record.
   SUBDIVIDER. A person, firm or corporation undertaking the subdivision or
resubdivision of a tract or parcel of land.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   A subdivision is the division of land into three or more lots or
other division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
transfer of ownership or building development.
      (2)   The term, when appropriate to the context, shall relate to the
process of subdividing or to the land subdivided or the resubdivision of land
heretofore divided or platted into lots or other division of land or, if a new
street is involved, any division of land.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 3) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 8-1-4 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Where in the case of a particular proposed subdivision, it can be
shown that strict compliance with the requirement of this chapter would result
in extraordinary hardship to the subdivider, because of unusual topography or
other conditions the City Council may vary, modify or waive the requirements so
that substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured; provided,
however, that, such variance, modification or waiver will not have the effect
of nullifying the intent and purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   In no case shall any variance or modification be more than minimum
easing of the requirements and such variances and waivers may be granted only
by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the members of the City Council.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 18) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 8-1-5 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   Any regulations or provisions of this regulation may be changed and amended
from time to time by the City Council; provided, however, that, such changes or
amendments shall not become effective until after a public hearing has been
held, public notice of which shall have been published at least once, not less
than ten days, nor more than 25 days before the date of the hearing.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 19) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 8-1-6 PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $100.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 20) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
PLATTING PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 8-1-20 PLATTING REQUIRED.
   Every owner of any tract or parcel of land who has subdivided or shall
hereafter subdivide or plat the same for the purpose of laying out an addition,
subdivision, building lot, or lots, acreage or suburban lots within the city or
within two miles from the corporate limits, shall cause plats of such areas to
be made in the form, and containing the information, as hereinafter set forth
before selling any lots therein contained or placing the plats on record.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 4) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 8-1-21 PROCEDURE.
   In obtaining final approval of a proposed subdivision by the City Council,
the subdivider shall submit a preliminary plat in accordance with the
requirements hereinafter set forth and install improvements or provide a
performance bond.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 5) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 8-1-22 PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   The subdivider shall first prepare and file with the City Clerk seven copies
of a preliminary plat of adequate scale and size showing the following:
   (A)   Title, scale, north point and date;
   (B)   Subdivision boundary lines, showing dimensions, bearings, angles and
references to section, townships and range lines or corners;
   (C)   Present and proposed streets, alleys and sidewalks, with their rights-
of-way, in or adjoining the subdivision including dedicated widths, approximate
gradients, types and widths of surfaces, curbs and planting strips and location
of street lights;
   (D)   Proposed layout of lots, showing numbers, dimensions, radii, chords
and the square foot areas of lots that are not rectangular;
   (E)   Building setback or front yard lines;
   (F)   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for schools,
parks, playgrounds or other public, semi-public or community purposes;
   (G)   Present and proposed easements, showing locations, width, purposes and
limitations;
   (H)   Present and propose utility systems, including sanitary and storm
sewers, other draining facilities, water lines, gas mains, electric utilities
and other facilities, with the size, capacity, invert elevation and location of
each;
   (I)   Proposed name of the subdivision which shall not duplicate or resemble
existing subdivision names in the county;
   (J)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, builder and engineer,
surveyor or architect who prepared the preliminary plat and the engineer,
surveyor or architect who will prepare the final plat;
   (K)   Existing and proposed zoning of the proposed subdivision and adjoining
property;
   (L)   A general summary description of any protective covenants or private
restrictions to be incorporated in the final plat; and
   (M)   Contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet if the
general slope of the site is less than 10% and at vertical intervals of not
more than five feet if the general slope is 10% or greater, unless the Council
waives this requirement.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 6) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 8-1-23 PRELIMINARY PLAT REFERRAL; ACTION BY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Referral of preliminary plat. The City Clerk shall forthwith refer
copies of the preliminary plat to the City Council.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 7)
   (B)   Action by the City Council. They shall carefully examine said
preliminary plat as to its compliance with the laws and regulations of the
city, the existing street system and good engineering practices, consider said
report, negotiate with the subdivider on changes deemed advisable and the kind
and extent of improvements to be made by him or her and pass on the preliminary
plat as originally submitted or modified. If the City Council does not act
within 30 days, the preliminary plat shall be deemed to be approved; provided,
however, that, the subdivider may agree to an additional 60 days. It shall then
set forth its recommendations in writing, whether of approval, modification or
disapproval.
      (1)   In the event that substantial changes or modifications are made by
the City Council or disapproval of the plat, it shall give its reasons therefor
and it may request and cause the revised preliminary plat to be resubmitted in
the same manner as the original plat.
      (2)   If approved the City Council shall express its approval as
“conditional approval” and state the conditions of such approval, if any.
      (3)   The action of the City Council shall be noted on copies of the
preliminary plat, referenced and attached to any conditions determined. One
copy shall be returned to the subdivider and the other copies retained by the
Council.
      (4)   The “conditional approval” by the City Council shall not constitute
final acceptance of the addition or subdivision by the city, but an
authorization to proceed with preparation of the final plat.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 8)
(Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 8-1-24 FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn to a scale of not
more that 100 feet to one inch.
   (B)   It shall show:
      (1)   The title under which the subdivision is to be recorded;
      (2)   The linear dimensions in feet and decimals of a foot of the
subdivision boundary, lot lines, streets and alleys. These should be exact and
complete;
      (3)   Street names and clear designations of public alleys. Streets that
are continuations of present streets should bear the same name. If new names
are needed, they should be distinctive;
      (4)   The plat should be signed and acknowledged by the subdivision land
owner and his or her spouse; and
      (5)   A sealed certification of the accuracy of the plat by the
professional engineer or land surveyor who drew up the final plat.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 10) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 8-1-25 FINAL PLAT REFERRAL; ACTION BY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Referral final plat.
      (1)   The subdivider shall, within 12 months of the “conditional
approval” of the preliminary plat by the City Council, prepare and file seven
copies of the final plat and other required documents with the City Clerk, as
hereafter set forth, and upon his or her failure to do so within the time
specified, the conditional approval of the preliminary plat shall be null and
void unless an extension of time is applied for and granted by the City
Council.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the final plat and other required documents, the
City Clerk shall transmit all copies of the final plat to the City Council for
its recommendation and approval.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 9)
   (B)   Action by the committee. The committee shall upon receiving the final
plat as soon as possible but not more than 30 days thereafter, consider the
final plat and, if same is approved, shall submit its recommendations of
approval to the City Council.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 12)
   (C)   Action by the City Council. Upon receipt of recommendations by
committee, the City Council shall, within a reasonable time, either approve or
disapprove the final plat.
      (1)   In the event that said plat is disapproved by the City Council,
such disapproval shall be expressed in writing and shall point out wherein said
proposed plat is objectionable.
      (2)   In the event that said plat is found to be acceptable and in
accordance with this chapter, the City Council shall accept the same.
      (3)   The passage of a resolution by the City Council accepting the plat
shall constitute final approval of the platting of the area shown on the final
plat, but the subdivider or owner shall cause such plat to be recorded in the
office of the County Recorder and shall file satisfactory evidence of such
recordings in the office of the City Clerk before the city shall recognize the
plat as being in full force and effect.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 13)
(Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 8-1-26 FINAL PLAT ATTACHMENTS.
   The final plat shall have the following attached:
   (A)   A correct description of the subdivision land;
   (B)   A certification by the owner and his or her spouse, if any, that the
subdivision is with the free consent, and is in accordance with the desire of
the owner and spouse. This certificate must be signed and acknowledged by the
owner and spouse before some officer authorized to take the acknowledgments of
deeds;
   (C)   A complete abstract of title and an attorney’s opinion showing that
the fee title to the subdivision land is in the owner and that the land is free
from encumbrances other than those secured by an encumbrance bond;
   (D)   A certificate from the County Treasurer that the subdivision land is
free from taxes;
   (E)   A certificate from the Clerk of the District Court that the
subdivision land is free from all judgments, attachments, mechanics or other
liens of record in his or her office;
   (F)   A certificate from the County Recorder that the title in fee is in the
owner and that it is free from encumbrances other than those secured by an
encumbrance bond;
   (G)   A certificate of dedication of streets and other public property;
   (H)   A statement of restrictions of all types that run with the land and
becomes covenants in the deeds of lots;
   (I)   Resolution and certificate for approval by the Council and for
signature of the Mayor and Clerk;
   (J)   Profiles, typical cross-sections and specifications of street
improvements and utility systems, to show the location, size and grade. These
should be shown on a 50-foot horizontal scale and a five-foot vertical scale
with west or south at the left;
   (K)   A certificate by the City Council that all required improvements and
installations have been completed, or that a performance bond guaranteeing
completion has been approved by the City Attorney and filed with the City
Clerk, or that the City Council has agreed that the city will provide the
necessary improvements and installations and assesses the costs against the
subdivider or future property owners in the subdivision; and
   (L)   The encumbrance bond, if any.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 11) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 8-1-27 GENERAL DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   The following general requirements shall be followed by all subdividers.
   (A)   Relation to existing streets. The arrangements, character extent,
width, grade and location of all streets shall be considered in their relation
to existing and planned streets, to topographic conditions, to public
convenience and safety and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses
of the land to be served by such streets.
   (B)   Acreage subdivision.
      (1)   Where the plat submitted covers only a part of the subdivider’s
plat, a sketch of the prospective future system of the unsubmitted part shall
be furnished and the street system of the part submitted shall be considered in
the light of adjustments in connection with the street system of the part not
submitted.
      (2)   Where the parcel is subdivided into larger tracts than for building
lots, such parcels shall be divided so as to allow for the opening of major
streets and the ultimate extension of adjacent minor streets.
   (C)   Minor streets. Minor streets shall be so planned as to discourage
through traffic.
   (D)   Street grades.
      (1)   Street grades, wherever feasible shall not exceed 5%, with due
allowance for reasonable vertical curves.
      (2)   No street grade shall be less than 0.5%.
   (E)   Alleys. The width of an alley shall be 20 feet.
   (F)   Lots. The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientation shall be
appropriate for the location of the subdivision and for the type of development
and use contemplated.
   (G)   Easements. Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines
shall be provided for utilities where necessary and shall be at least ten feet
wide.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 14) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 8-1-28 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED; COMPLETION.
   (A)   The subdivider shall install and construct all improvements required
by this chapter. All required improvements shall be installed and constructed
in accordance with the specifications and under the supervision of the City
Council and to its satisfaction.
      (1)   Streets and alleys. All streets and alleys within the platted area
which are dedicated for public use shall be brought to the grade approved by
the City Council.
      (2)   Roadways. All roadways shall be surfaced with portland cement
concrete. This shall be for all streets to be approved by the City Council.
      (3)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks may be required by the City Council if they
are considered necessary for the general welfare and safety of the community.
Sidewalks shall be constructed to the grade approved by the City Council.
      (4)   Water lines. Where a public water main is reasonably accessible,
the subdivider shall connect with such water main and provide a water
connection for each lot with service pipe installed to the property line in
accordance with the City Water Department standards, procedures and
supervision.
      (5)   Sewers. Where a public sanitary sewer is reasonably accessible, the
subdivider shall connect or provide for the connection with such sanitary sewer
and shall provide within the subdivision the sanitory sewer system and required
to make the sewer accessible to each lot in the subdivision. Sanitary sewers
shall be stubbed into each lot. Sewer systems shall be approved by City
Council.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 15)
   (B)   Before the City Council will approve the final plat, all of the
foregoing shall be constructed and accepted by formal resolution of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 16)
(Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
§ 8-1-29 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   The completion requirement may be waived in whole or in part if the
subdivider will post a performance bond with the City Council guaranteeing that
improvements not completed will be constructed within a period of one year from
final acceptance of the plat; but final acceptance of the plat will not
constitute final acceptance by the city of any improvements to be constructed.
Improvements will be accepted only after their construction has been completed
and no public funds will be expended in the subdivision until such improvements
have been completed and accepted by the city.
(Prior Code, Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 17) (Ord. passed 4-2-1985)
APPENDIX OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.    FRANCHISES
      
II.    CITY BOUNDARIES
      
III.    STREET NAME CHANGES; WIDTH SPECIFICATIONS
      
IV.    ALLEY VACATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
-             4-2-1985    Authorizing a cable television franchise between the
                          city and Mahaska Cablevision, Inc.
(Prior Code, Art. 6, Ch. 1)
-             4-2-1985    Authorizing an electric energy distribution franchise
                          between the city and Iowa Power and Light Company
(Prior Code, Art. 6, Ch. 2)
-             9-3-1991    Authorizing a gas distribution franchise between the
                          city and Midwest Gas
(Prior Code, Art. 6, Ch. 3)
-             10-5-1993   Authorizing an electric energy distribution franchise
                          between the city and Midwest Power
(Prior Code, Art. 6, Ch. 4)
-             4-6-2004    Authorizing a cable television franchise between the
                          city and Mediacom Communication Corporation
(Prior Code, Art. 6, Ch. 1)
05082012-A    5-8-2012    Authorizing a water distribution franchise between
                          the city and Mahaska Rural Water System, Inc.
05082012-B    5-8-2012    Authorizing a water distribution franchise between
                          the city and Mahaska Rural Water System, Inc.
                          Authorizing an electric system and communications
Art. 6, Ch. 6 12-6-2016   facilities franchise between the city and MidAmerican
                          Energy Company.
Art. 6, Ch. 7 12-6-2016   Authorizing a natural gas system franchise between
                          the city and MidAmerican Energy Company.
                         
 
TABLE II: CITY BOUNDARIES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        4-2-1985    Describing the boundaries of the city
(Prior Code, Art. 1, Ch. 2)
                    
 
TABLE III: STREET NAME CHANGES; WIDTH SPECIFICATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        12-7-1971   Changing the name of Cemetery Street to Elm Street
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 2)
12198    12-1-1998   Establishing the correct width (50 feet) of Sherman Street
                    
 
TABLE IV: ALLEY VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
-     4-2-   Vacating all of the alley running northwest from Reed Street to Elm
      1985   Street between Lots 71 and 72 of Price’s Addition
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 3)
-     4-3-   Amendment; fees for vacation of alleys
      2007
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 9)
-     5-1-   Vacating the north-south public alley, 150 feet by 20 feet, between
      2007   Lots 32 and 39 of the original municipal plat
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 10)
-     1-3-   Vacating the east-west public alley, 100 feet by 20 feet, north of and
      2008   adjoining Lots 94 and 95 in Price’s Addition
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 11)
-     8-8-   Vacating the north public alley, 95.26 feet by 15 feet, north of and
      2011   adjoining Lots 4 and 5
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 12)
-     9-7-   Vacating the north-south public alley, 20 feet by 40 feet, Lots 33 and
      2011   40 of the original municipal plat
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 13)
      9-7-   Vacating the north-south public alley, 20 feet by 150 feet, and
-     2011   adjoining Lot 65 of the Evan’s First Addition and Lot 76 of Price’s
             Addition
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 14)
      9-9-   Vacating the north-south public alley, 20 feet by 150 feet, and
-     2011   adjoining Lot 65 of the Evan’s First Addition and Lot 76 of Price’s
             Addition
(Prior Code, Art. 8, Ch. 15)
2024- 8-6-   Vacating the alley lying between Lot 62 of Evan's first and Lot 73 of
2     2024   price's addition to the Town of Enterprise, now known as the City of
             Beacon
            
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Iowa Code
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO IOWA CODE
Iowa Code Cites Code Section
Iowa Code Cites Code Section
Ch. 28A         1-3-18
Ch. 45          1-4-21
Ch. 76.10       1-6-1
Ch. 98          2-1-3;
                2-1-7
317.21          3-2-6
321             5-1-3 
321.1(40)       3-5-4
321.395         5-1-4
CH.321G         3-5-4
CH.321H         3-5-4
CH.322          3-5-4
CH.322A         3-5-4
CH.322C         3-5-4
CH.322D         3-5-4
Ch. 351         4-2-1
364             7-3-1
364.12(2)(a)    6-2-20
364.12[3a]      3-5-3
372.13(5)       1-6-1,
                1-6-2
376.6           1-4-36
376.7           1-4-36
376.9           1-4-36
380.2           1-1-7
392.1           6-2-21
Ch. 481A        4-2-9
Ch. 481B        4-2-9
435.1           7-2-2
657.1           3-5-3
687 to 747      1-1-25
718.5           1-1-9
                
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2020 Code
Prior Code             2020 Code
Art. 1, Ch. 2          ASO Table II
Art. 2, Ch. 1, § 1    1-2-1
Art. 2, Ch. 1, § 2    1-2-2
Art. 2, Ch. 1, § 3    1-2-3
Art. 2, Ch. 1, § 4    1-2-4
Art. 2, Ch. 1, § 5    1-2-5
Art. 2, Ch. 1, § 6    1-2-6
Art. 2, Ch. 1, § 7    1-2-7
Art. 2, Ch. 3, § 1    1-7-1
Art. 2, Ch. 3, § 2    1-7-2
Art. 2, Ch. 3, § 3    1-7-3
Art. 3, Ch. 1, § 1    1-4-20
Art. 3, Ch. 1, § 2    1-4-21
Art. 3, Ch. 2, § 1    1-3-1
Art. 3, Ch. 2, § 2    1-3-2
Art. 3, Ch. 2, § 3    1-3-3
Art. 3, Ch. 2, § 4    1-3-4
Art. 3, Ch. 3, § 1    1-3-15
Art. 3, Ch. 3, § 2    1-3-16
Art. 3, Ch. 3, § 3    1-3-17
Art. 3, Ch. 3, § 4    1-3-18
Art. 3, Ch. 3, § 5    1-3-19
Art. 3, Ch. 3, § 6    1-3-20
Art. 3, Ch. 4          1-5-1
Art. 3, Ch. 5          1-5-2
Art. 3, Ch. 6, § 1    1-4-1
Art. 3, Ch. 6, § 2    1-4-2
Art. 3, Ch. 6, § 3    1-4-3
Art. 3, Ch. 6, § 4    1-4-4
Art. 3, Ch. 6, § 5    1-4-5
Art. 3, Ch. 6, § 6    1-4-6
Art. 3, Ch. 6, § 7    1-4-7
Art. 3, Ch. 6, § 8    1-4-8
Art. 3, Ch. 6, § 9    1-4-9
Art. 3, Ch. 7          1-5-3
Art. 3, Ch. 13, § 1   6-4-20
Art. 3, Ch. 13, § 2   6-4-21
Art. 3, Ch. 13, § 3   6-4-22
Art. 3, Ch. 14, § 1   1-4-35
Art. 3, Ch. 14, § 2   1-4-36
Art. 3, Ch. 14, § 3   1-4-37
Art. 3, Ch. 14, § 4   1-4-38
Art. 3, Ch. 14, § 5   1-4-39
Art. 3, Ch. 14, § 6   1-4-40
Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 1    8-1-1
Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 2    8-1-2
Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 3    8-1-3
Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 4    8-1-20
Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 5    8-1-21
Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 6    8-1-22
Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 7    8-1-23
Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 8    8-1-23
Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 9    8-1-25
Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 10   8-1-24
Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 11   8-1-26
Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 12   8-1-25
Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 13   8-1-25
Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 14   8-1-27
Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 15   8-1-28
Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 16   8-1-28
Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 17   8-1-29
Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 18   8-1-4
Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 19   8-1-5
Art. 4, Ch. 1, § 20   8-1-6
Art. 4, Ch. 2, § 1    7-1-1
Art. 4, Ch. 2, § 2    7-1-2
Art. 4, Ch. 2, § 4    7-1-3
Art. 4, Ch. 2, § 5    7-1-4
Art. 4, Ch. 2, § 6    7-1-5
Art. 4, Ch. 2, § 7    7-1-6
Art. 4, Ch. 2, § 8    7-1-7
Art. 4, Ch. 2, § 9    7-1-8
Art. 4, Ch. 2, § 10   7-1-9
Art. 4, Ch. 2, § 11   7-1-10
Art. 6, Ch. 1          ASO Table I
Art. 6, Ch. 2          ASO Table I
Art. 6, Ch. 3          ASO Table I
Art. 6, Ch. 4          ASO Table I
Art. 6, Ch. 6          ASO Table I
Art. 6, Ch. 7          ASO Table I
Art. 7, Ch. 1, § 1    2-1-1
Art. 7, Ch. 1, § 2    2-1-2
Art. 7, Ch. 1, § 3    2-1-3
Art. 7, Ch. 1, § 4    2-1-4
Art. 7, Ch. 1, § 5    2-1-5
Art. 7, Ch. 1, § 6    2-1-6
Art. 7, Ch. 1, § 7    2-1-7
Art. 7, Ch. 1, § 8    2-1-8
Art. 7, Ch. 1, § 9    2-1-9
Art. 7, Ch. 1, § 10   2-1-10
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 1    2-2-1
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 2    2-2-2
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 3    2-2-20
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 4    2-2-20
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 5    2-2-21
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 6    2-2-22
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 7    2-2-23
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 8    2-2-24
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 9    2-2-25
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 10   2-2-25
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 11   2-2-26
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 12   2-2-27
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 13   2-2-28
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 14   2-2-29
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 15   2-2-30
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 16   2-2-31
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 17   2-2-32
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 18   2-2-33
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 19   2-2-3
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 20   2-2-4
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 21   2-2-34
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 22   2-2-34
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 23   2-2-35
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 24   2-2-5
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 25   2-2-6
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 26   2-2-7
Art. 7, Ch. 2, § 27   2-2-35
Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 1    5-1-1
Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 2    5-1-2
Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 3    5-1-3
Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 4    5-1-4
Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 5    5-1-5
Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 7    5-1-6
Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 8    5-1-7
Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 9    5-1-8
Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 10   5-1-9
Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 11   5-1-10
Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 12   5-1-11
Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 13   5-1-12
Art. 8, Ch. 1, § 14   5-1-14
Art. 8, Ch. 2          ASO Table III
Art. 8, Ch. 3          ASO Table IV
Art. 8, Ch. 4, § 1    5-1-13
Art. 8, Ch. 7, § 1    1-1-25
Art. 8, Ch. 7, § 2    1-1-26
Art. 8, Ch. 7, § 3    1-1-27
Art. 8, Ch. 7, § 4    1-1-28
Art. 8, Ch. 7, § 5    1-1-29
Art. 8, Ch. 7, § 6    1-1-30
Art. 8, Ch. 7, § 7    1-1-31
Art. 8, Ch. 7, § 8    1-1-32
Art. 8, Ch. 7, § 9    1-1-33
Art. 8, Ch. 8, § 1    6-2-20
Art. 8, Ch. 8, § 2    6-2-21
Art. 8, Ch. 8, § 3    6-2-22
Art. 8, Ch. 8, § 4    6-2-23
Art. 8, Ch. 8, § 5    6-2-24
Art. 8, Ch. 9          ASO Table IV
Art. 8, Ch. 10         ASO Table IV
Art. 8, Ch. 11         ASO Table IV
Art. 8, Ch. 12         ASO Table IV
Art. 8, Ch. 13         ASO Table IV
Art. 8, Ch. 14         ASO Table IV
Art. 8, Ch. 15         ASO Table IV
Art. 9, Ch. 1, § 1    3-1-1
Art. 9, Ch. 1, § 2    3-1-2
Art. 9, Ch. 1, § 3    3-1-3
Art. 9, Ch. 1, § 4    3-1-4
Art. 9, Ch. 1, § 5    3-1-5
Art. 9, Ch. 1, § 6    3-1-6
Art. 9, Ch. 1, § 7    3-1-7
Art. 9, Ch. 1, § 8    3-1-8
Art. 9, Ch. 1, § 9    3-1-9
Art. 9, Ch. 1, § 10   3-1-10
Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 1    2-3-1
Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 2    2-3-2
Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 3    2-3-3
Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 4    2-3-4
Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 5    2-3-5
Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 6    2-3-5
Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 7    2-3-6
Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 8    2-3-7
Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 9    2-3-8
Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 10   2-3-9
Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 11   2-3-10
Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 12   2-3-11
Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 13   2-3-12
Art. 9, Ch. 2, § 14   2-3-13
Art. 9, Ch. 4, § 1    3-4-1
Art. 9, Ch. 4, § 2    3-4-2
Art. 9, Ch. 4, § 3    3-4-3
Art. 9, Ch. 4, § 4    3-4-4
Art. 9, Ch. 5, § 1    4-1-1
Art. 9, Ch. 5, § 2    4-1-2
Art. 9, Ch. 5, § 3    4-1-3
Art. 9, Ch. 5, § 4    4-1-4
Art. 9, Ch. 6, § 1    3-3-1
Art. 9, Ch. 6, § 2    3-3-2
Art. 9, Ch. 8, § 1    3-2-1
Art. 9, Ch. 8, § 2    3-2-2
Art. 9, Ch. 8, § 3    3-2-3
Art. 9, Ch. 8, § 4    3-2-4
Art. 9, Ch. 8, § 5    3-2-5
Art. 9, Ch. 8, § 6    3-2-6
Art. 9, Ch. 8, § 7    3-2-7
Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 1   6-1-1
Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 2   6-1-2
Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 3   6-1-3
Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 4   6-1-4
Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 5   6-1-5
Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 6   6-1-6
Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 7   6-1-7
Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 8   6-1-8
Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 9   6-1-9
Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 10  6-1-9
Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 11  6-1-10
Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 13  6-1-11
Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 14  6-1-12
Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 15  6-1-13
Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 16  6-1-13
Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 17  6-1-14
Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 18  6-1-15
Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 19  6-1-16
Art. 10, Ch. 1, § 20  6-1-17
Art. X, Ch. 1, § 1    6-2-1
Art. X, Ch. 1, § 2    6-2-2
Art. X, Ch. 1, § 3    6-2-3
Art. X, Ch. 1, § 4    6-2-4
Art. X, Ch. 1, § 5    6-2-5
Art. 11, Ch. 1, § 1   6-4-1
Art. 11, Ch. 1, § 2   6-4-2
Art. 11, Ch. 1, § 3   6-4-3
Art. 11, Ch. 1, § 4   6-4-4
Art. 11, Ch. 1, § 5   6-4-5
Art. 11, Ch. 1, § 6   6-4-6
Art. 12, Ch. 1, § 1   6-5-1
Art. 12, Ch. 1, § 2   6-5-2
Art. 12, Ch. 1, § 3   6-5-3
Art. 12, Ch. 1, § 4   6-5-4
Art. 12, Ch. 1, § 5   6-5-5
Art. 12, Ch. 1, § 6   6-5-6
Art. 12, Ch. 1, § 7   6-5-7
Art. 12, Ch. 1, § 8   6-5-8
Art. 12, Ch. 1, § 9   6-5-9
Art. 13, Ch. 1         6-3-1
Art. 15, Ch. 1, § 1   1-6-1
Art. 15, Ch. 1, § 2   1-6-2
Art. 15, Ch. 1, § I   7-3-1—
                       7-3-3
Art. 15, Ch. 1, § II  7-3-4—
                       7-3-9
Art. 15, Ch. 1, § III 7-3-25—
                       7-3-38
Art. 15, Ch. 1, § IV  7-3-50—
                       7-3-52
Art. 15, Ch. 1, § V   7-3-10
Art. 15, Ch. 1, § VI  7-3-53
Art. 15, Ch. 1, § VII 7-3-54
Art. 15, Ch. 1, § VIII7-3-11
Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 1   7-2-1
Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 2   7-2-2
Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 3   7-2-3
Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 4   7-2-4
Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 5   7-2-5
Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 6   7-2-6
Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 7   7-2-7
Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 8   7-2-8
Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 9   7-2-9
Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 10  7-2-10
Art. 15, Ch. 2, § 13  7-2-11
                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.       Date Passed Description
-              - -         1-6-1;
                           1-6-2
-              - -         3-2-1—
                           3-2-7
                           4-2-2—
                           4-2-8;
-              - -         4-2-10—
                           4-2-14;
                           4-2-25—
                           4-2-27 
                           7-1-1,
                           7-1-2;
                           7-1-6—7-1-11;
-              - -         7-3-4;
                           7-3-5;
                           7-3-25;
                           7-3-50;
                           7-3-51
-              12-7-1971   ASO Table III
31             - -         1-6-1,
                           1-6-2
659 § 1       - -1985     4-2-1
                           1-2-1—
                           1-2-7;
                           1-3-1—
                           1-3-4;
                           1-3-15—
                           1-3-20;
                           1-4-1—
                           1-4-9;
                           1-4-20;
                           1-4-21;
                           1-5-1—
                           1-5-4;
                           2-1-1—
                           2-1-10;
                           2-2-1—
                           2-2-7;
                           2-2-20—
                           2-2-35;
-              4-2-1985    2-3-1—
                           2-3-13;
                           3-1-1—
                           3-1-10;
                           5-1-1—
                           5-1-5;
                           5-1-7—5-1-15;
                           6-1-1—
                           6-1-10;
                           6-1-12—6-1-18;
                           6-5-1—
                           6-5-9;
                           8-1-1—
                           8-1-6;
                           8-1-20—
                           8-1-29;
                           ASO Table I;
                           ASO Table II;
                           ASO Table IV
-              8-6-1985    1-4-35—
                           1-4-40
-              10-2-1990   3-3-1;
                           3-3-2
-              9-3-1991    ASO Table I
-              5-5-1992    5-1-11;
                           5-1-12
-              10-5-1993   ASO Table I
-              8-1-1995    6-3-1
                           7-3-1—
                           7-3-11;
-              5-6-1997    7-3-25—
                           7-3-38;
                           7-3-54
12198          12-1-1998   ASO Table III
-              4-6-2004    ASO Table I
-              7-6-2004    5-1-5
-              5-3-2005    1-1-25—
                           1-1-33
-              8-2-2005    5-1-5
-              7-6-2006    7-2-1—
                           7-2-11
-              2-6-2007    6-2-20—
                           6-2-24
-              4-3-2007    ASO Table IV
-              5-1-2007    ASO Table IV
-              1-3-2008    ASO Table IV
                           3-4-1—
-              8-4-2009    3-4-4;
                           4-1-1—
                           4-1-4
-              10-6-2009   6-4-1—
                           6-4-6
-              10-5-2010   6-2-1—
                           6-2-5
-              8-8-2011    ASO Table IV
-              9-7-2011    ASO Table IV
-              9-7-2011    ASO Table IV
-              9-9-2011    ASO Table IV
05082012-A     5-8-2012    ASO Table I
05082012-B     5-8-2012    ASO Table I
-              7-2-2012    6-4-20—
                           6-4-22
-              7-3-2012    1-7-1—
                           1-7-3
-              - -2013     1-8-1—
                           1-8-3
-              2- -2014    1-3-20
-              12-4-2014   1-3-35—
                           1-3-37
Art. 6, Ch. 6  12-6-2016   ASO Table I
Art. 6, Ch. 7  12-6-2016   ASO Table I
-              1-4-2018    1-7-1;
                           1-7-2
Art. 1, Ch. 9  1-5-2021    Adopting Ordinance
Art. 1, Ch. 10 2-3-2022    1-3-18
Art. 1, Ch. 11 7-5-2022    1-3-18
Art. 1, Ch. 12 7-5-2022    1-3-3
Art. 1, Ch. 13 7-5-2022    1-3-20
Art. 3, Ch. 6  - -2023     3-5-1—
                           3-5-9
Art. 5, Ch. 15 5-7-2024    5-1-8
2024-2         8-6-2024    ASO Table IV
                          
 
 
