Code of Ordinances
of the
City of Bedford, Iowa
Adopted March 11, 2020, by Ordinance No. 446
Prepared By: Local Government Professional Services, Inc.
DBA Iowa Codification
P. O. Box 244
114 E 5th Street
Storm Lake, Iowa 50588
(641) 355-4072
www.sc-ic.com
SUPPLEMENT RECORD
SUPPLEMENT                         ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds  Ord. No. Date     Subject
Apr-21    Ch. 165                  447      9-9-20   I-1 Allowable Uses
          1.14                     448      4-14-21  Standard Penalty
          55.02; 55.10; 55.12;     449      4-14-21  Animal Control
          55.22; 55.23
          46.02; 121.07            450      4-14-21  Tobacco Use
Apr-22    Ch. 165                  451      5-12-21  Heavy Industry Provisions
          106.08(1)                452      6-9-21   Collection Fee for Solid
                                                     Waste
          17.06                    453      9-8-21   City Council Compensation
          15.04                    454      9-8-21   Mayor Compensation
          110.07                   455      2-9-22   Municipal Gas Base Rate
                                                     Meter Charge
Oct-22    106.08(1)                456      6-8-22   Collection Fees for Solid
                                                     Waste
          45.01; 45.02(2); 120.03; 457      10-12-22 Alcoholic Beverage Control
          120.04; 120.05; 120.06
          75.02(3); 75.05          458      10-12-22 All-Terrain Vehicles
          81.02; 81.04; 81.05      459      10-12-22 Golf Carts
Apr-23    65.02(2)                 460      2-8-23   Four-Way Stop
                                                     Intersections
Apr-23    106.08(1)                461      7-12-23  Coillection Fee
          99.01.01                 462      7-12-23  Disposal of Septic Waste
          46.04; 120.04; 120.05;                     Liquor Licenses and
          121.05                   463      11-7-23  Cigarette and Tobacco
                                                     Permits
          7.05; 7.08               464      11-7-23  Fiacal Management
Mar-25    99.01                    465      7-10-24  Sewer Service Charges
          60.02; 65.07             466      11-13-24 Pedestrians' Right-of-Way
          18.03                    467      11-13-24 Publication of Minutes
          136.04                   468      11-13-24 Sidewalk Liabiltity
          50.08                    469      11-13-24 Adult Establishment
                                                     Nuisances
          5.02                     470      11-13-24 Bond Requirements
          5.06                     471      11-13-24 Electronic Meetings
          35.13                    472      11-13-24 Authority to Cite
                                                     Violations
          7.05(4)                  473      11-13-24 Operating Budget
                                                     Preparation
          106.08(1)                474      11-13-24 Solid Waste and Disposal
                                                     Service
          Ch. 111                  475      3-12-25  Electric Franchise
 
CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
1.01 Title                  1.08 Amendments
1.02 Definitions            1.09 Catchlines and Notes
1.03 City Powers            1.10 Altering Code
1.04 Indemnity              1.11 Severability
1.05 Personal Injuries      1.12 Warrants
1.06 Rules of Construction  1.13 General Standards for Action
1.07 Extension of Authority 1.14 Standard Penalty
 
1.01 TITLE.
   This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Bedford, Iowa.
1.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the
Code of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances
unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the
Council or repugnant to the context of the provision. Other words and phrases
used herein have the following meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise
in another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such construction would
be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or repugnant to the
context of the provision:
   1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, affording
secondary means of access to abutting property.
   2.   “City” means the City of Bedford, Iowa.
   3.   “Clerk” means the city clerk of Bedford, Iowa.
   4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code and/or a standard code adopted by reference).
   5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Bedford, Iowa.
   6.   “Council” means the city council of Bedford, Iowa.
   7.   “County” means Taylor County, Iowa.
   8.   “May” confers a power.
   9.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution or motion.
   10.   “Must” states a requirement.
   11.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
   12.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Bedford, Iowa, as
embodied in this Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance
adopting this Code of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.
   13.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
   14.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
   15.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
   16.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the edge
of the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   17.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
   18.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.
   19.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.
1.03 CITY POWERS.
   The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if
not inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power
and perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the
rights, privileges, and property of the City and of its residents, and to
preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and
convenience of its residents, and each and every provision of this Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and
the performance of the foregoing functions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
1.04 INDEMNITY.
   The applicant for any permit or license under this Code of Ordinances, by
making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising
from or related to, directly, indirectly, or remotely, the issuance of the
permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of such
applicant, or the agents, employees, or servants of such applicant, to abide by
or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Ordinances or the terms
and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by making such
application, forever agrees to indemnify the City and its officers, agents, and
employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands,
lawsuits, or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury, or death,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing.
The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any permit or
license issued under this Code of Ordinances or any other ordinance of the
City, whether expressly recited therein or not.
1.05 PERSONAL INJURIES.
   When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to
have been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person
by whose negligence it claims the injury was caused. The notice shall state the
pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location of the
court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged facts from
which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person notified is
liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and asking the person
to appear and defend. A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any
action by the City against any person so notified, as to the existence of the
defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the City
to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage
or injury. The City may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the City in the suit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)
1.06 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to
ascertain the intent of the Council, with the understanding that the term
“statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.
1.07 EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
   Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate, or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.
1.08 AMENDMENTS.
   All ordinances that amend, repeal, or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
1.09 CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references,
and State law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in this Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement, or clarify the contents
of a section.
1.10 ALTERING CODE.
   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by additions
or deletions, any part or portion of this Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code of
Ordinances in any manner that will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented.
1.11 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, provision, or part of this Code of Ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of
this Code of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof
not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
1.12 WARRANTS.
   If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure, or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to enter upon or
conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an administrative
search warrant. No owner, operator or occupant, or any other person having
charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure,
building, or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search
warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.
1.13 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
   Whenever this Code of Ordinances grants any discretionary power to the
Council or any commission, board, or officer or employee of the City and does
not specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be
exercised in light of the following standard: The discretionary power to grant,
deny, or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts and
circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
1.14 STANDARD PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code of Ordinances for
violation of any particular provision, section, or chapter, any person failing
to perform a duty required by this Code of Ordinances or otherwise violating
any provision of this Code of Ordinances or any rule or regulation adopted
herein by reference shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of at least
$105.00 but not to exceed $855.00. The court may order imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days in lieu of a fine or in addition to a fine.† 1
(Ord. 448 - Apr. 21 Supp.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[2] and 903.1[1a])
 
Notes
1 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For civil penalty for violations of this Code of Ordinances, see
  Chapter 4.
CHAPTER 2
CHARTER
 
2.01 Title                              2.04 Number and Term of Council
2.02 Form of Government                 2.05 Term of Mayor
2.03 Powers and Duties of City Officers 2.06 Copies on File
 
2.01 TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Bedford, Iowa.
2.02 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government of the City is the Mayor-Council form of government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
2.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.
2.04 NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
   The Council consists of five Council Members elected at large for terms of
two years.† 2
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Pursuant to a City election held August 19, 2003, the Bedford City
2 Council Representation Plan was changed to election at large without ward residence
  requirements for the members.
2.05 TERM OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.06 COPIES ON FILE.
   The Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file with the
official records of the Clerk and the Secretary of State, and shall keep copies
of the charter available at the Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1)
CHAPTER 3 
BOUNDARIES
3.01 CORPORATE LIMITS.
The corporate limits of the City are described as follows:
Beginning at the northeast corner of the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast
Quarter (SW¼SE¼) of Section Twenty-three (23), thence west to the northwest
corner of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼SE¼) of Section
Twenty-two (22), thence south to the southwest corner of the Southeast Quarter
of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼SE¼) of Section Twenty-two (22), thence west to
the northwest corner of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NE¼NW¼)
of Section Twenty-seven (27), thence south to the southwest corner of the
Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (SE¼NW¼) of Section Twenty-seven
(27), thence east to the southeast corner of the Southeast Quarter of the
Northwest Quarter (SE¼NW¼) of Section Twenty-seven (27), thence south to the
southwest corner of the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter (SW¼SE¼) of
Section Twenty-seven (27), thence east to the southeast corner of the Southwest
Quarter of the Southeast Quarter (SW¼SE¼) of Section Twenty-six (26), thence
north to the northeast corner of the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter
(SW¼SE¼) of Section Twenty-three (23), all in Township Sixty-eight North (68N),
Range 34 West of the 5th P.M.
CHAPTER 4
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
 
4.01 Municipal Infraction    4.04 Civil Citations
4.02 Environmental Violation 4.05 Alternative Relief
4.03 Penalties               4.06 Alternative Penalties
 
4.01 MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
   A violation of this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance or code herein
adopted by reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty
required by the same, with the exception of those provisions specifically
provided under State law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious
misdemeanor, or a simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code
of Iowa, is a municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided
herein. † 3
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[3])
 
Notes
3 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For criminal penalty for violations of this Code of
  Ordinances, see Section 1.14.
4.02 ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.
   A municipal infraction that is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of
Iowa or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the
Department of Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an environmental
violation. However, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable
until the City has offered to participate in informal negotiations regarding
the violation or to the following specific violations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
   1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8.
   2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the industrial
production or manufacturing of grain products.
   3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial production
or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to January 15.
4.03 PENALTIES.
   A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
   1.   Standard Civil Penalties.
      A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00
      B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00
   Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a
repeat offense.
   2.   Special Civil Penalties.
      A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a
pretreatment standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8, by an
industrial user is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each
day a violation exists or continues.
      B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation is
punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence.
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
         (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial startup,
cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or conducting a
shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the equipment designed to
reduce or eliminate the violation.
         (2)   The City is notified of the violation within 24 hours from the
time that the violation begins.
         (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more than eight
hours.
4.04 CIVIL CITATIONS.
   Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code of Ordinances may
issue a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction. A copy
of the citation may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the defendant at defendant’s
last known mailing address, return receipt requested, or by publication in the
manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and subject to the
conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311. A copy of the citation shall be
retained by the issuing officer, and the original citation shall be sent to the
Clerk of the District Court. The citation shall serve as notification that a
civil offense has been committed and shall contain the following information:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[4])
   1.   The name and address of the defendant.
   2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.
   3.   The location and time of the infraction.
   4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.
   5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.
   6.   The time and place of court appearance.
   7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
   8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.
If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to the
condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local housing
regulation violation, a housing code violation, or a public health or safety
violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District Court, the
City shall also file the citation in the office of the County Treasurer.
4.05 ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. Such
alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for abatement
or injunctive relief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[8])
4.06 ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES.
   This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal
citation for a violation of this Code of Ordinances or regulation if criminal
penalties are also provided for the violation. Nor does it preclude or limit
the authority of the City to enforce the provisions of this Code of Ordinances
by criminal sanctions or other lawful means.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[11])
CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES
 
5.01 Oaths                 5.07 Conflict of Interest
5.02 Bonds                 5.08 Resignations
5.03 Powers and Duties     5.09 Removal of Appointed Officers and Employees
5.04 Books and Records     5.10 Vacancies
5.05 Transfer to Successor 5.11 Gifts
5.06 Meetings              5.12 Holidays
 
5.01 OATHS.
   The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Qualify for Office. Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify for
office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a bond. The
oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after such officer is certified as
elected but not later than noon of the first day that is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday in January of the first year of the term for which the officer
was elected.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)
   2.   Prescribed Oath. The prescribed oath is: “I, (name), do solemnly swear
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and impartially, to the best
of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of (name of office) in
Bedford as now or hereafter required by law.”
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)
   3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths. The following are empowered to
administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:
      A.   Mayor
      B.   City Clerk
      C.   Members of all boards, commissions, or bodies created by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)
5.02 BONDS.
   Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:
   1.   Required. The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond or
blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, Clerk,
Treasurer, and such other officers and employees as may be necessary and
advisable except as allowed in Subsection 5.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)
   2.   Bonds Approved. Bonds shall be approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)
   3.   Bonds Filed. All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be
filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23(6))
   4.   Record. The Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the “Record of
Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all City
officers, elective or appointive.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24(1)(a))
   5.   Insurance Policy in Lieu of Bond. In lieu of a bond, a public officer
required to obtain a bond pursuant to Chapter 64 of the Code of Iowa may obtain
an insurance policy in an amount not less than the amounts required of a bond.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.3)
(Section 5.02 – Ord. 470 – Mar. 25 Supp.)
5.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code of Ordinances, or as otherwise directed by the
Council unless contrary to State law or City charter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.04 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open
to examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of law
expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept confidential.
Access to public records that are combined with data processing software shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 & 22.3A)
5.05 TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.
   Each officer shall transfer to his or her successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents and property in the officer’s custody and
appertaining to that office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.06 MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be held
in accordance with the following:
   1.   Definitions. The following terms are defined for use in this section.
      A.   “Closed session” means a meeting to which all members of the public
do not have access as allowed by Section 21.5 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   “Hybrid meeting” means a meeting involving both remote participation
and in-person participation by members.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(a))
      C.   “Open session” means a meeting to which all members of the public
have access.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.2(3))
      D.   “Remote participation” means real-time participation by a remotely
located individual in a meeting which is being held in a different physical
location using integrated audio, video, and other digital tools.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(b))
      E.   “Reasonable notice” means advising the news media who have filed a
request for notice with the governmental body and posting the notice on a
bulletin board or other prominent place which is easily accessible to the
public and clearly designated for that purpose at the principal office of the
body holding the meeting, or if not such office exists, at the building in
which the meeting is to be held.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4(1))
      F.   “Teleconference participation” means participation using audio
conference tools involving multiple participants in at least two separate
locations.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(c))
      G.   “Virtual meeting” means a meeting involving real-time interaction
using integrated audio, video, and other digital tools, in which participants
do not share a physical location.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(d))
   2.   Notice of Meetings. Reasonable notice of the time, date, and place of
each meeting and its tentative agenda shall be given.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)
   3.   Meetings Open. All meetings shall be held in open session unless closed
sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   4.   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time,
and place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting. The
minutes shall show the results of each vote taken and information sufficient to
indicate the vote of each member present. The vote of each member present shall
be made public at the open session. The minutes shall be public records open to
public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   5.   Closed Session. A closed session may be held only by affirmative vote
of either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the meeting
and in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)
   6.   Cameras and Recorders. The public may use cameras or recording devices
at any open session.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
   7.   Electronic Meetings. A governmental body shall provide for hybrid
meetings, teleconference participation, virtual meetings, remote participation,
and other hybrid options for the members of the governmental body to
participate in official meetings. A governmental body conducting a meeting
pursuant to this subsection shall comply with all of the provisions of Chapter
21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)
(Section 5.06 – Ord. 471 – Mar. 25 Supp.)
5.07 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect,
in any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services
to be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law. A
contract entered into in violation of this section is void. The provisions of
this section do not apply to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)
   1.   Compensation of Officers. The payment of lawful compensation of a City
officer or employee holding more than one City office or position, the holding
of which is not incompatible with another public office or is not prohibited by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3a])
   2.   Investment of Funds. The designation of a bank or trust company as a
depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3b])
   3.   City Treasurer. An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves as
Treasurer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3c])
   4.   Stock Interests. Contracts in which a City officer or employee has an
interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in Subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract. The competitive bid qualification
of this subsection does not apply to a contract for professional services not
customarily awarded by competitive bid.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3e])
   5.   Newspaper. The designation of an official newspaper.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3f])
   6.   Existing Contracts. A contract in which a City officer or employee has
an interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or employee
was elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3g])
   7.   Volunteers. Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3h])
   8.   Corporations. A contract with a corporation in which a City officer or
employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or immediate
family of such officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3i])
   9.   Contracts. Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in writing,
publicly invited and opened.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3d])
   10.   Cumulative Purchases. Contracts not otherwise permitted by this
section, for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or
employee, if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed a
cumulative total purchase price of $6,000.00 in a fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3j])
   11.   Franchise Agreements. Franchise agreements between the City and a
utility and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential
City utility services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3k])
   12.   Third Party Contracts. A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the City
but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not be the
original underwriter, purchaser, or obligee of the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3l])
5.08 RESIGNATIONS.
   An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a
resignation in writing to the Clerk so that it shall be properly recorded and
considered. A person who resigns from an elective office is not eligible for
appointment to the same office during the time for which the person was elected
if, during that time, the compensation of the office has been increased.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[9])
5.09 REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order. The order shall
give the reasons, be filed in the office of the Clerk, and a copy shall be sent
by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request filed with the Clerk
within 30 days after the date of mailing the copy, shall be granted a public
hearing before the Council on all issues connected with the removal. The
hearing shall be held within 30 days after the date the request is filed,
unless the person removed requests a later date.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)
5.10 VACANCIES.
   A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled
in accordance with Section 372.13[2] of the Code of Iowa.
5.11 GIFTS.
   Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or series
of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a restricted
donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly with one or
more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of gifts to a
public official, public employee, or candidate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)
5.12 HOLIDAYS.
   The following days shall be designated as legal holidays: New Year’s Day,
Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day,
Friday following Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day.
CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS
 
6.01 Nominating Method to Be Used 6.04 Preparation of Petition and Affidavit
6.02 Nominations by Petition      6.05 Filing; Presumption; Withdrawals;
                                  Objections
6.03 Adding Name by Petition      6.06 Persons Elected
 
6.01 NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.
   All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 45 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)
6.02 NOMINATIONS BY PETITION.
   Nominations for elective municipal offices of the City may be made by
nomination paper or papers signed by not less than 10 eligible electors,
residents of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.1)
6.03 ADDING NAME BY PETITION.
   The name of a candidate placed upon the ballot by any other method than by
petition shall not be added by petition for the same office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.2)
6.04 PREPARATION OF PETITION AND AFFIDAVIT.
   Nomination papers shall include a petition and an affidavit of candidacy.
The petition and affidavit shall be substantially in the form prescribed by the
State Commissioner of Elections, shall include information required by the Code
of Iowa, and shall be signed in accordance with the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.3, 45.5 & 45.6)
6.05 FILING; PRESUMPTION; WITHDRAWALS; OBJECTIONS.
   The time and place of filing nomination petitions, the presumption of
validity thereof, the right of a candidate so nominated to withdraw and the
effect of such withdrawal, and the right to object to the legal sufficiency of
such petitions, or to the eligibility of the candidate, shall be governed by
the appropriate provisions of Chapter 44 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.4)
6.06 PERSONS ELECTED.
   The candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for each office on
the ballot are elected, to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8[3])
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
 
7.01 Purpose         7.05 Operating Budget Preparation
7.02 Finance Officer 7.06 Budget Amendments
7.03 Cash Control    7.07 Accounting
7.04 Fund Control    7.08 Financial Reports
 
7.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules
and regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.
7.02 FINANCE OFFICER.
   The Clerk is the finance and accounting officer of the City and is
responsible for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
7.03 CASH CONTROL.
   To assure the proper accounting and safe custody of moneys the following
shall apply:
   1.   Deposit of Funds. All moneys or fees collected for any purpose by any
City officer shall be deposited through the office of the finance officer. If
any said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the officer by check
drawn by the finance officer and approved by the Council only upon such
officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as required by law,
ordinance, or Council directive.
   2.   Deposits and Investments. All moneys belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State law,
including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, 12C.1)
   3.   Petty Cash Fund. The finance officer shall be custodian of a petty cash
fund not to exceed $50.00 for the payment of small claims for minor purchases,
collect-on-delivery transportation charges, and small fees customarily paid at
the time of rendering a service, for which payments the finance officer shall
obtain some form of receipt or bill acknowledged as paid by the vendor or
agent. At such time as the petty cash fund is approaching depletion, the
finance officer shall draw a check for replenishment in the amount of the
accumulated expenditures and said check and supporting detail shall be
submitted to the Council as a claim in the usual manner for claims and charged
to the proper funds and accounts. It shall not be used for salary payments or
other personal services or personal expenses.
   4.   Change Fund. The finance officer is authorized to draw a warrant/check
on the Utility Fund for establishing a change fund in the amount of $80.00 for
the purpose of making change without commingling other funds to meet the
requirements of the office. Said change fund shall be in the custody of the
finance officer, who shall maintain the integrity of the fund.
7.04 FUND CONTROL.
   There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following:
   1.   Revenues. All moneys received by the City shall be credited to the
proper fund as required by law, ordinance, or resolution.
   2.   Expenditures. No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance, or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council.
   3.   Emergency Fund. No transfer may be made from any fund to the Emergency
Fund.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388], Sec. 2.5[2])
   4.   Debt Service Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by State law,
moneys may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service Fund to
meet payments of principal and interest. Such transfers must be authorized by
the original budget or a budget amendment.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388] Sec. 2.5[3])
   5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund. Except where specifically prohibited
by State law, moneys may be transferred from any City fund to the Capital
Improvements Reserve Fund. Such transfers must be authorized by the original
budget or a budget amendment.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388] Sec. 2.5[4])
   6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds. A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise Fund
may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund, by
resolution of the Council. A surplus may exist only after all required
transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in accordance with the
terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan agreements relating to the
Utility or Enterprise Fund. A surplus is defined as the cash balance in the
operating account or the unrestricted net position calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, after adding back the net
pension and other postemployment benefits, liabilities, and the related
deferred inflows of resources and deducting the related deferred outflows of
resources, in excess of:
      A.   The amount of the expenses of disbursements for operating and
maintaining the utility or enterprise for the preceding three months; and
      B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to restricted
accounts for the succeeding three months.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388], Sec. 2.5[5])
   7.   Balancing of Funds. Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close of
each month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.
7.05 OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION.
   The annual operating budget of the City shall be prepared in accordance with
the following:
   1.   Proposal Prepared. The finance officer is responsible for preparation
of the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council and adoption
by the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and Council.
   2.   Boards and Commissions. All boards, commissions, and other
administrative agencies of the City that are authorized to prepare and
administer budgets must submit their budget proposals to the finance officer
for inclusion in the proposed City budget at such time and in such form as
required by the Council.
   3.   Submission to Council. The finance officer shall submit the completed
budget proposal to the Council each year at such time as directed by the
Council.
   4.   Annual Statement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 24.2A(2))
      A.   On or before 4:00 p.m. on March 5 of each year, the City shall file,
with the Department of Management, a report containing all necessary
information for the Department of Management to compile and calculate amounts
required to be included in the statement mailed under Paragraph B.
      B.   Not later than March 15, the County Auditor, using information
compiled and calculated by the Department of Management shall send to each
property owner or taxpayer within the County, by regular mail, an individual
statement containing all of the required information as provided under Section
24.2(2)(B)(1-10) of the Code of Iowa.
      C.   The Department of Management shall prescribe the form for the report
required under Paragraph A, the statements to be mailed under Paragraph B, and
the public hearing notice required under Paragraph D.
      D.   The Council shall set a time and place for a public hearing on the
City’s proposed property tax amount for the budget year and the City’s
information included in the statements under Paragraph B. The proposed property
tax hearing shall be set on a date on or after March 20 of the budget year
immediately preceding the budget year for which the tax is being proposed. At
the hearing, the Council shall receive oral or written testimony from any
resident or property owner of the City. This public hearing shall be separate
from any other meeting of the Council, including any other meeting or public
hearing relating to the City’s budget, and other business of the City that is
not related to the proposed property tax amounts and the information in the
statements shall not be conducted at the public hearing. After all testimony
has been received and considered, the governing body may decrease, but not
increase, the proposed property tax amount to be included in the City’s budget.
         (1)   Notice of the public hearing shall be published not less than 10
nor more than 20 days prior to the hearing, in a newspaper published at least
once weekly and having general circulation in the City. However, if the City
has a population of 200 or less, publication may be made by posting in three
public places in the City.
         (2)   Notice of the hearing shall also be posted and clearly
identified on the City’s internet site for public viewing beginning on the date
of the newspaper publication and shall be maintained on the City’s internet
site with all such prior year notices.
         (3)   Additionally, if the City maintains a social media account on
one or more social media applications, the public hearing notice or an
electronic link to the public hearing notice shall be posted on each such
account on a date no later than the date of publication of the notice.
         (4)   Failure of a newspaper to publish a required notice under this
paragraph shall not be considered a failure of a political subdivision to
provide required notice under this paragraph if all of the following conditions
are met:
            a.   Notice of the public hearing was provided to each property
owner and each taxpayer within the political subdivision in statements required
under Subsection 2, Paragraph B.
            b.   The political subdivision can demonstrate to the County
Auditor that the political subdivision provided sufficient time for the
newspaper to publish the notice.
(Subsection 4 – Ord. 473 – Mar. 25 Supp.)
   5.   Council Review. The Council shall review the proposed budget and may
make any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting such
proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.
   6.   Notice of Hearing. Following, and not until the requirements, of
Subsection 4 of this section, are completed, the Council shall set a time and
place for public hearing on the budget to be held before April 30 and shall
publish notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days before the
hearing. A summary of the proposed budget and a description of the procedure
for protesting the City budget under Section 384.19 of the Code of Iowa, in the
form prescribed by the Director of the Department of Management, shall be
included in the notice. Proof of publication of the notice under this
subsection must be filed with the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[3])
   7.   Copies of Budget on File. Not less than 20 days before the date that
the budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less than 10 days
before the public hearing, the Clerk shall make available a sufficient number
of copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of taxpayers and
organizations, and have them available for distribution at the offices of the
Mayor and Clerk and at the City library.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[2])
   8.   Adoption and Certification. After the hearing, the Council shall adopt,
by resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the Clerk shall
certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal year to the County Auditor
and the County Board of Supervisors. The tax levy certified may be less than,
but not more than, the amount estimated in the proposed budget submitted at the
final hearing, unless an additional tax levy is approved at a City election.
Two copies each of the detailed budget as adopted and of the tax certificate
must be transmitted to the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[5])
(Section 7.05 – Ord. 464 – Apr. 24 Supp.)
7.06 BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
   A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes
effective July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and
purpose specified therein until amended as provided by this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)
   1.   Program Increase. Any increase in the amount appropriated to a program
must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as the
original budget.
(IAC, 545-2.2[384, 388])
   2.   Program Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as
the original budget.
(IAC, 545-2.3[384, 388])
   3.   Activity Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one activity to
another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council.
(IAC, 545-2.4[384, 388])
   4.   Administrative Transfers. The finance officer shall have the authority
to adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval.
(IAC, 545-2.4[384, 388])
7.07 ACCOUNTING.
   The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:
   1.   Books of Original Entry. There shall be established and maintained
books of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received and
disbursed.
   2.   General Ledger. There shall be established and maintained a general
ledger controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for recording
unappropriated surpluses.
   3.   Checks. Checks shall be prenumbered and signed by any two of the
following: Clerk, Deputy Clerk, or Billing Clerk, following Council approval,
except as provided by Subsection 5 hereof.
   4.   Budget Accounts. There shall be established such individual accounts to
record receipts by source and expenditures by program and activity as will
provide adequate information and control for budgeting purposes as planned and
approved by the Council. Each individual account shall be maintained within its
proper fund and so kept that receipts can be immediately and directly compared
with revenue estimates and expenditures can be related to the authorizing
appropriation. No expenditure shall be posted except to the appropriation for
the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
   5.   Immediate Payment Authorized. The Council may by resolution authorize
the Clerk to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts due, which if not
paid promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for late payment or
additional interest cost. Any such payments made shall be reported to the
Council for review and approval with and in the same manner as other claims at
the next meeting following such payment. The resolution authorizing immediate
payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized and may include (but is
not limited to) payment of utility bills, contractual obligations, payroll, and
bond principal and interest.
   6.   Utilities. The finance officer shall perform and be responsible for
accounting functions of the municipally owned utilities, including those
utilities under the control and management of the Water Utility Board of
Trustees.
7.08 FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   The finance officer shall prepare and file the following financial reports:
   1.   Monthly Reports. There shall be submitted to the Council each month a
report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program, and
activity for the preceding month.
   2.   Annual Report. Not later than December 1 of each year there shall be
published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal year
of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit of
the City for the current fiscal year. The Annual Financial Report shall be
prepared on forms and pursuant to instructions prescribed by the Auditor of
State. Beginning with the Annual Financial Report published by December 1,
2025, each report shall include a list of bonds, notes, or other obligations
issued by the City during the most recently completed fiscal year, and the
applicable lists for other fiscal years beginning on or after July 1, 2024, for
which obligations remain unpaid, payable from any source, including the amount
of the issuance, the project or purpose of the issuance, whether the issuance
was approved at election, eligible to be subject to a petition for an election,
or was exempt from approval at election as the result of statutory exclusions
based on population of the City or amount of the issuance, and identification
of issuances from the fiscal year or prior fiscal years related to the same
project or purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)
(Section 7.08 – Ord. 464 – Apr. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS
 
8.01 Purpose                        8.06 Applications
8.02 Definitions                    8.07 Approval
8.03 Period of Partial Exemption    8.08 Exemption Repealed
8.04 Amounts Eligible for Exemption 8.09 Dual Exemptions Prohibited
8.05 Limitations                     
 
8.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a partial exemption from
property taxation of the actual value added to industrial real estate by the
new construction of industrial real estate, research-service facilities,
warehouses, and distribution centers.
8.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Actual value added” means the actual value added as of the first year
for which the exemption is received.
   2.   “Distribution center” means a building or structure used primarily for
the storage of goods that are intended for subsequent shipment to retail
outlets. Distribution center does not mean a building or structure used
primarily to store raw agricultural products, used primarily by a manufacturer
to store goods to be used in the manufacturing process, used primarily for the
storage of petroleum products, or used for the retail sale of goods.
   3.   “New construction” means new buildings and structures and includes new
buildings and structures that are constructed as additions to existing
buildings and structures. New construction does not include reconstruction of
an existing building or structure that does not constitute complete replacement
of an existing building or structure or refitting of an existing building or
structure unless the reconstruction of an existing building or structure is
required due to economic obsolescence and the reconstruction is necessary to
implement recognized industry standards for the manufacturing and processing of
specific products and the reconstruction is required for the owner of the
building or structure to continue competitively to manufacture or process those
products, which determination shall receive prior approval from the City
Council.
   4.   “Research-service facilities” means a building or group of buildings
devoted primarily to research and development activities, including (but not
limited to) the design and production or manufacture of prototype products for
experimental use and corporate research services that do not have a primary
purpose of providing on-site services to the public.
   5.   “Warehouse” means a building or structure used as a public warehouse
for the storage of goods pursuant to Chapter 554, Article 7, of the Code of
Iowa, except that it does not mean a building or structure used primarily to
store raw agricultural products or from which goods are sold at retail.
8.03 PERIOD OF PARTIAL EXEMPTION.
   The actual value added to industrial real estate by the new construction of
industrial real estate, research-service facilities, warehouses, and
distribution centers is eligible to receive a partial exemption from taxation
for a period of five years. The exemption shall also apply to the acquisition
of or improvement to machinery and equipment assessed as real estate pursuant
to Section 427A.1[1e] of the Code of Iowa, unless the machinery or equipment is
part of the normal replacement or operating process to maintain or expand the
existing operational status.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.04 AMOUNTS ELIGIBLE FOR EXEMPTION.
   The amount of actual value added, which is eligible to be exempt from
taxation, shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
   1.   For the first year, 75 percent.
   2.   For the second year, 60 percent.
   3.   For the third year, 45 percent.
   4.   For the fourth year, 30 percent.
   5.   For the fifth year, 15 percent.
8.05 LIMITATIONS.
   The granting of the exemption under this chapter for new construction
constituting complete replacement of an existing building or structure shall
not result in the assessed value of the industrial real estate being reduced
below the assessed value of the industrial real estate before the start of the
new construction added.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.06 APPLICATIONS.
   An application shall be filed for each project resulting in actual value
added for which an exemption is claimed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
   1.   The application for exemption shall be filed by the owner of the
property with the local assessor by February 1 of the assessment year in which
the value added is first assessed for taxation.
   2.   Applications for exemption shall be made on forms prescribed by the
Director of Revenue and shall contain information pertaining to the nature of
the improvement, its cost, and other information deemed necessary by the
Director of Revenue.
8.07 APPROVAL.
   A person may submit a proposal to the City Council to receive prior approval
for eligibility for a tax exemption on new construction. If the City Council
resolves to consider such proposal, it shall publish notice and hold a public
hearing thereon. Thereafter, at least 30 days after such hearing, the City
Council, by ordinance, may give its prior approval of a tax exemption for new
construction if the new construction is in conformance with City zoning. Such
prior approval shall not entitle the owner to exemption from taxation until the
new construction has been completed and found to be qualified real estate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
8.08 EXEMPTION REPEALED.
   When in the opinion of the City Council continuation of the exemption
granted by this chapter ceases to be of benefit to the City, the City Council
may repeal this chapter, but all existing exemptions shall continue until their
expiration.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.5)
8.09 DUAL EXEMPTIONS PROHIBITED.
   A property tax exemption under this chapter shall not be granted if the
property for which the exemption is claimed has received any other property tax
exemption authorized by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.6)
CHAPTER 9
URBAN RENEWAL
 
9.01 Purpose                            9.03 Industrial Park Urban Renewal
                                        Project Area
9.02 Bedford Urban Renewal Project Area
 
9.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the division of taxes levied
on the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Areas of the City each year by and
for the benefit of the State, City, County, school districts or other taxing
districts after the effective date of the ordinances codified in this chapter
in order to create a special fund to pay the principal of and interest on
loans, advances or indebtedness, including bonds proposed to be issued by the
City, to finance projects in such areas.
9.02 BEDFORD URBAN RENEWAL PROJECT AREA.
   The provisions of this section apply to the Bedford Urban Renewal Project
Area, the boundaries of which are set out below, such area having been
identified in the Urban Renewal Plan approved by the Council by Resolution No.
1994-7 adopted on April 25, 1994:
BEDFORD URBAN RENEWAL AREA ONE:
The south eighty-six (86) feet of Lot Two (2) Block Eleven (11) of the Original
Town of Bedford, Lots Three (3) and Four (4) of Block Eleven (11) of the
Original Town of Bedford, Lots Five (5), Six (6), Seven (7) and Eight (8) of
Block Thirteen (13) of the Original Town of Bedford
BEDFORD URBAN RENEWAL AREA TWO:
A tract in the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter (SE¼SE¼); the north
four (4) acres of the south 12½ acres except a tract containing 1.87 acres on
the west side and a tract containing 2.2 acres on the east side of the north 4
acres of the south 12½ acres, Section 22, Township 68, Range 34, all in the
incorporated town of Bedford
The taxes levied on the taxable property in the Bedford Urban Renewal Project
Area by and for the benefit of the State, the City, the County of Taylor, the
Bedford Community School District and all other taxing districts from and after
the effective date of Ordinance No. 333, shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts taxing
property in said Urban Renewal Project Area upon the total sum of the assessed
value on the assessment roll as of January 1, 1993, shall be allocated to and
when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing district as
taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property taxes are
paid.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such base period taxes
shall be allocated to and when collected be paid into a special tax increment
fund of the City to pay the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced
to, indebtedness, whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including
bonds or obligations issued under the authority of Section 403.9 and 403.12 of
the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to finance or refinance, in whole or in
part, projects in the Bedford Urban Renewal Project Program, except that taxes
for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing district levying taxes on
said project area shall be collected against all taxable property within the
project area without limitation by the provisions of this section.
   3.   All taxes levied and collected upon the taxable property in the Bedford
Urban Renewal Project Area shall be paid into the funds of the taxing districts
as taxes by or for said taxing districts in the same manner as all other
property taxes unless or until the total assessed valuation of the taxable
property in the Urban Renewal Project Area shall exceed the total assessed
value of the taxable property in said Urban Renewal Project Area as shown on
the assessment roll referred to in subsection 1 of this section.
   4.   At such time as the loans, moneys advanced, bonds, and interest thereon
and indebtedness of the City have been paid, all moneys thereafter received
from taxes upon the taxable property in the Bedford Urban Renewal Project Area
shall be paid into the funds for the respective taxing districts in the same
manner as taxes on all other property.
9.03 INDUSTRIAL PARK URBAN RENEWAL PROJECT AREA.
   The provisions of this section apply to the Industrial Park Urban Renewal
Project Area, the boundaries of which are set out below, such area having been
identified in the Urban Renewal Plan approved by the Council by Resolution No.
1995-3 adopted on March 6, 1995:
The East One-half of the Northwest Quarter (E½NW¼) of Section Twenty-seven
(27), Township Sixty-eight (68) North, Range Thirty-four (34) West of the 5th
P.M., EXCEPT beginning at the southwest corner of the East One-half of the
Northwest Quarter (E½NW¼) of Section Twenty-seven (27), Township Sixty-eight
(68) North, Range Thirty-four (34) West of the 5th P.M., Taylor County, Iowa,
thence north 660 feet, thence east 1,320 feet, thence south 660 feet, thence
west 1,320 feet to the P.O.B.; AND EXCEPT a tract of land situated in the
Northwest Quarter (NW¼) of Section Twenty-seven (27), Township Sixty-eight (68)
North, Range Thirty-four (34) West, Taylor County, Iowa, said tract being
described as follows: Commencing at the North Quarter Corner of said Section
27, thence due south 124.49 feet to a right-of-way rail at Sta. 615+27/100 feet
right, thence along the southern right-of-way of Highway 2, north 89°00'37"
west 359.57 feet to the point of beginning, thence south 00°01'50" east 295.16
feet, thence north 89°00'37" west 295.16 feet, thence north 00°01'50" west
295.16 feet to the southern right-of-way of Highway 2, thence along said right-
of-way, south 89°00'37" east 295.16 feet to the point of beginning; AND EXCEPT
land deeded for public highways and easements of record
The taxes levied on the taxable property in the Industrial Park Urban Renewal
Project Area by and for the benefit of the State, the City, the County of
Taylor, the Bedford Community School District and all other taxing districts
from and after the effective date of Ordinance No. 339, shall be divided as
follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts taxing
property in said Industrial Park Urban Renewal Project Area upon the total sum
of the assessed value on the assessment roll as of the first day of the
calendar year preceding the calendar year in which the City first certifies to
the County Auditor of the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness or bonds
issued or made in furtherance of the Urban Renewal Project (which certification
is directed to be made during the 1995 calendar year), shall be allocated to
and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing district as
taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property taxes are
paid.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such base period taxes
shall be allocated to and when collected be paid into a special tax increment
fund of the City to pay the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced
to, indebtedness, whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including
bonds or obligations issued under the authority of Section 403.9 and 403.12 of
the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to finance or refinance, in whole or in
part, projects in the Industrial Park Urban Renewal Project Program, except
that taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing district
levying taxes on said project area shall be collected against all taxable
property within the project area without limitation by the provisions of this
section.
   3.   All taxes levied and collected upon the taxable property in the
Industrial Park Urban Renewal Project Area shall be paid into the funds of the
taxing districts as taxes by or for said taxing districts in the same manner as
all other property taxes unless or until the total assessed valuation of the
taxable property in the Urban Renewal Project Area shall exceed the total
assessed value of the taxable property in said Urban Renewal Project Area as
shown on the assessment roll referred to in subsection 1 of this section.
   4.   At such time as the loans, moneys advanced, bonds, and interest thereon
and indebtedness of the City have been paid, all moneys thereafter received
from taxes upon the taxable property in the Industrial Park Urban Renewal
Project Area shall be paid into the funds for the respective taxing districts
in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
CHAPTER 10
URBAN REVITALIZATION AREA
 
10.01 Designation of Revitalization Areas 10.03 Commercial Tax Abatement
10.02 Residential Tax Abatement           10.04 Urban Revitalization Plan
 
10.01 DESIGNATION OF REVITALIZATION AREAS.
   In accordance with Chapter 404 of the Code of Iowa, all properties within
the corporate boundaries of the City of Bedford, Iowa, classified as
residential, including single-family residential units, multi-family units and
multi-residential (commercial) units, as established in the Urban
Revitalization Plan, and existing between January 13, 2010, and January 12,
2015, be, and are hereby declared, pursuant to Chapter 404, to be an Urban
Revitalization District.
10.02 RESIDENTIAL TAX ABATEMENT.
   Properties classified as residential or multi-family residential shall be
eligible for abatement of taxes on the new value added by construction or
improvements according to the following schedule:
Year 1 -- 100% Abatement
Year 2 -- 100% Abatement
Year 3 -- 100% Abatement
Year 4 -- 75% Abatement
Year 5 -- 50% Abatement
10.03 COMMERCIAL TAX ABATEMENT.
   Properties classified as multi-residential or commercial shall be eligible
for abatement of taxes on the new value added by construction or improvements
according to the following schedule:
OPTION 1:
Year 1 -- 100% Abatement
Year 2 -- 100% Abatement
Year 3 -- 100% Abatement
OPTION 2:
Year 1 -- 80% Abatement
Year 2 -- 70% Abatement
Year 3 -- 60% Abatement
Year 4 -- 50% Abatement
Year 5 -- 40% Abatement
Year 6 -- 40% Abatement
Year 7 -- 30% Abatement
Year 8 -- 30% Abatement
Year 9 -- 20% Abatement
Year 10 -- 20% Abatement
10.04 URBAN REVITALIZATION PLAN.
   The Urban Revitalization Plan for the City of Bedford, Iowa, dated January
13, 2010, on file in the office of the City Clerk be, and is hereby declared to
be the Urban Revitalization Plan for the area of the City of Bedford, Iowa,
designated in Section
10.01.
CHAPTER 15
MAYOR
 
15.01 Term of Office    15.04 Compensation
15.02 Powers and Duties 15.05 Voting
15.03 Appointments
 
15.01 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
15.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:
   1.   Chief Executive Officer. Act as the chief executive officer of the City
and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the City,
give direction to department heads concerning the functions of the departments,
and have the power to examine all functions of the municipal departments, their
records and to call for special reports from department heads at any time.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   2.   Proclamation of Emergency. Have authority to take command of the police
and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that a time of
emergency or public danger exists. Within the City limits, the Mayor has all
the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[2])
   3.   Special Meetings. Call special meetings of the Council when the Mayor
deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   4.   Mayor’s Veto. Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance, amendment,
or resolution passed by the Council. The Mayor may veto an ordinance,
amendment, or resolution within 14 days after passage. The Mayor shall explain
the reasons for the veto in a written message to the Council at the time of the
veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 & 380.6[2])
   5.   Reports to Council. Make such oral or written reports to the Council as
required. These reports shall concern municipal affairs generally, the
municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for Council action.
   6.   Negotiations. Represent the City in all negotiations properly entered
into in accordance with law or ordinance. The Mayor shall not represent the
City where this duty is specifically delegated to another officer by law,
ordinance, or Council direction.
   7.   Contracts. Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on behalf
of the City.
   8.   Professional Services. Upon order of the Council, secure for the City
such specialized and professional services not already available to the City.
In executing the order of the Council, the Mayor shall act in accordance with
this Code of Ordinances and the laws of the State.
   9.   Licenses and Permits. Sign all licenses and permits that have been
granted by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be
issued by another municipal officer.
   10.   Nuisances. Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.
   11.   Absentee Officer. Make appropriate provision that duties of any
absentee officer be carried on during such absence.
   12.   Issue civil citations to any person or business that commits a
municipal infraction.
15.03 APPOINTMENTS.
   The Mayor shall appoint the Mayor Pro Tem and the Mayor also appoints, with
Council approval, the following officials:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
   1.   Police Chief
   2.   City Treasurer
   3.   Library Board of Trustees
   4.   Water Utility Board of Trustees
   5.   Historic Preservation Commission
   6.   Cemetery Board of Trustees
   7.   Park Commission
   8.   City Tree Board
   9.   Telecommunications Utility Board of Trustees
15.04 COMPENSATION.
   The salary of the Mayor is $2,500.00 per year, payable annually. †
(Ord. 454 - Apr. 22 Supp.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
 
Notes
EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 454 was adopted on September 8, 2021 and is
  effective January 1, 2022.
15.05 VOTING.
   The Mayor is not a member of the Council and shall not vote as a member of
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM
 
16.01 Vice President of Council 16.03 Voting Rights
16.02 Powers and Duties         16.04 Compensation
 
16.01 VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
   The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem
shall perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the
Mayor to perform such duties. In the exercise of the duties of the office the
Mayor Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ, or discharge from
employment officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint,
employ, or discharge without the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.03 VOTING RIGHTS.
   The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.04 COMPENSATION.
   If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of 15 days or more, the Mayor Pro
Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined by the Council,
based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s duties and upon the
compensation of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL
 
17.01 Number and Term of Council 17.04 Council Meetings
17.02 Powers and Duties          17.05 Appointments
17.03 Exercise of Power          17.06 Compensation
 
17.01 NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
   The Council consists of five Council members elected at large for terms of
two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 & 376.2)
17.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:
   1.   General. All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   2.   Wards. By ordinance, the Council may divide the City into wards based
upon population, change the boundaries of wards, eliminate wards, or create new
wards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[7])
   3.   Fiscal Authority. The Council shall apportion and appropriate all
funds, and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls and claims, and order
payment thereof. It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers and other work, improvement, or repairs that
may be specially assessed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1], 384.16 & 384.38[1])
   4.   Public Improvements. The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   5.   Contracts. The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts. No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 26.10)
6.   Employees. The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number, duties,
term of office and compensation of employees or officers not otherwise provided
for by State law or the Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   7.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers. By ordinance, the Council
shall prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and other
elected City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor does not
become effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and the
Council shall not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any
elected officer during the months of November and December in the year of a
regular City election. A change in the compensation of Council members becomes
effective for all Council members at the beginning of the term of the Council
members elected at the election next following the change in compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
17.03 EXERCISE OF POWER.
   The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[1])
   1.   Action by Council. Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or resolution
requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council. Passage of a
motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council. A resolution must
be passed to spend public funds in excess of $100,000.00 on a public
improvement project, or to accept public improvements and facilities upon their
completion. Each Council member’s vote on a measure must be recorded. A measure
that fails to receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered
defeated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)
   2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto. Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all
of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
   3.   Measures Become Effective. Measures passed by the Council become
effective in one of the following ways:
      A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective when
the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1a])
      B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately upon
signing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1b])
      C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the motion by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1c])
      D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment or resolution and the
Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes
effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a
law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
      E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment or
resolution, a resolution becomes effective 14 days after the date of passage,
and an ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a summary of
the ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the date of
passage, unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[3])
“All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the Council
including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but does not
include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason of a
conflict of interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1[a])
17.04 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section
5.06 of this Code of Ordinances. Additional particulars relating to Council
meetings are the following:
   1.   Regular Meetings. The regular meetings of the Council are on the second
Wednesday of each month at 5:30 p.m. in the Council Chambers at City Hall.
   2.   Special Meetings. Special meetings shall be held upon call of the Mayor
or upon the request of a majority of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
   3.   Quorum. A majority of all Council members is a quorum.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[1])
   4.   Rules of Procedure. The Council shall determine its own rules and
maintain records of its proceedings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
   5.   Compelling Attendance. Any three members of the Council can compel the
attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned, or duly called
meeting, by serving a written notice upon the absent members to attend at once.
17.05 APPOINTMENTS.
   The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their
powers, duties, compensation, and term of office:
   1.   City Clerk
   2.   City Attorney
   3.   Airport Commission
   4.   Planning and Zoning Commission
   5.   Zoning Board of Adjustment
17.06 COMPENSATION.
   The salary of each Council member is $100.00 per month, payable annually. †
(Ord. 453 - Apr. 22 Supp.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
 
Notes
EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 453 was adopted on September 8, 2021 and is
  effective January 1, 2022.
CHAPTER 18
CITY CLERK
 
18.01 Appointment and Compensation 18.08 Records
18.02 Powers and Duties: General   18.09 Attendance at Meetings
18.03 Publication of Minutes       18.10 Licenses and Permits
18.04 Recording Measures           18.11 Notification of Appointments
18.05 Other Publications           18.12 Elections
18.06 Authentication               18.13 City Seal
18.07 Certification                 
 
18.01 APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Clerk to serve at the
pleasure of the Council. The Clerk shall receive such compensation as
established by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3])
18.02 POWERS AND DUTIES: GENERAL.
   The Clerk or, in the Clerk’s absence or inability to act, the Deputy Clerk
has the powers and duties as provided in this chapter, this Code of Ordinances,
and the law.
18.03 PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.
   Within 15 days following a regular or special meeting of the Council, the
Clerk shall cause the minutes of the proceedings of the Council, including the
total expenditure from each City fund, to be delivered to a newspaper of
general circulation in the City for publication. The publication shall include
a list of all claims allowed and a summary of all receipts and shall show the
gross amount of the claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(6))
(Section 18.03 – Ord. 467 – Mar. 25 Supp.)
18.04 RECORDING MEASURES.
   The Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by the Council and
record a statement with the measure, where applicable, indicating whether the
Mayor signed, vetoed or took no action on the measure, and whether the measure
was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[1 and 2])
18.05 OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
   The Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances, enactments,
proceedings and official notices requiring publication as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
   1.   Time. If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action is
required by this Code of Ordinances or law, the notice must be published at
least once, not less than four or more than 20 days before the date of the
election, hearing, or other action, unless otherwise provided by law.
   2.   Manner of Publication. A publication required by this Code of
Ordinances or law must be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and
having general circulation in the City.
18.06 AUTHENTICATION.
   The Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions with the Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and manner of publication when required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[4])
18.07 CERTIFICATION.
   The Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning district,
building lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district, lines, or
limits to the recorder of the County containing the affected parts of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)
18.08 RECORDS.
   The Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the following manner:
   1.   Ordinances and Codes. Maintain copies of all effective City ordinances
and codes for public use.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[5])
   2.   Custody. Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   3.   Maintenance. Maintain all City records and documents, or accurate
reproductions, for at least five years except that ordinances, resolutions,
Council proceedings, records and documents, or accurate reproductions, relating
to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption or replacement of public
bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least 11 years following the final
maturity of the bonds or obligations. Ordinances, resolutions, Council
proceedings, records and documents, or accurate reproductions, relating to real
property transactions shall be maintained permanently.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3 and 5])
   4.   Provide Copy. Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy of
any record, paper or public document under the Clerk’s control when it may be
necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s duty; furnish a
copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set by Council
resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized officer, affix
the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments that by this Code
of Ordinances are required to be attested by the affixing of the seal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4 and 5] and 380.7[5])
   5.   Filing of Communications. Keep and file all communications and
petitions directed to the Council or to the City generally. The Clerk shall
endorse thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered in such
communications and petitions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.09 ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
   The Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council meetings and, at the
direction of the Council, the Clerk shall attend meetings of committees,
boards, and commissions. The Clerk shall record and preserve a correct record
of the proceedings of such meetings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.10 LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   The Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when authorized by this
Code of Ordinances, and keep a record of licenses and permits issued which
shall show date of issuance, license or permit number, official receipt number,
name of person to whom issued, term of license or permit, and purpose for which
issued.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.11 NOTIFICATION OF APPOINTMENTS.
   The Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or Council to
offices in the City government of their positions and the time at which they
shall assume the duties of their offices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.12 ELECTIONS.
   The Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections in accordance with
Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.
18.13 CITY SEAL.
   The City seal is in the custody of the Clerk and shall be attached by the
Clerk to all transcripts, orders, and certificates that it may be necessary or
proper to authenticate. The City seal is circular in form, in the center of
which are the words “BEDFORD” and around the margin of which are the words
“CITY SEAL, TAYLOR COUNTY, IOWA.”
CHAPTER 19
CITY TREASURER
 
19.01 Appointment  19.03 Duties of Treasurer
19.02 Compensation
 
19.01 APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor shall appoint, subject to Council approval, a City Treasurer to
serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
19.02 COMPENSATION.
   The Treasurer is paid such compensation as specified by resolution of the
Council.
19.03 DUTIES OF TREASURER.
   The duties of the Treasurer are as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Custody of Funds. Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds of
the City in the manner provided by law and Council direction.
   2.   Record of Fund. Keep the record of each fund separate.
   3.   Record Receipts. Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received by the Treasurer on behalf of the City and specify the date, from
whom, and for what purpose received.
   4.   Record Disbursements. Keep an accurate account of all disbursements,
money, or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what fund paid.
   5.   Special Assessments. Keep a separate account of all money received by
the Treasurer from special assessments.
   6.   Deposit Funds. Upon receipt of moneys to be held in the Treasurer’s
custody and belonging to the City, deposit the same in depositories selected by
the Council.
   7.   Reconciliation. Reconcile depository statements with the Treasurer’s
books and certify monthly to the Council the balance of cash and investments of
each fund and amounts received and disbursed.
   8.   Debt Service. Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record all
payments of interest and principal.
   9.   Other Duties. Perform such other duties as specified by the Council by
resolution or ordinance.
   10.   Reconciliation with Clerk. Reconcile the Treasurer’s books with the
Clerk’s every month.
CHAPTER 20
CITY ATTORNEY
 
20.01 Appointment and Compensation 20.05 Review and Comment
20.02 Attorney for City            20.06 Provide Legal Opinion
20.03 Power of Attorney            20.07 Attendance at Council Meetings
20.04 Ordinance Preparation        20.08 Prepare Documents
 
20.01 APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Attorney to serve at the
pleasure of the Council. The City Attorney shall receive such compensation as
established by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.02 ATTORNEY FOR CITY.
   The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters
affecting the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any
court, tribunal, commission, or board. The City Attorney shall prosecute or
defend all actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.03 POWER OF ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and to
all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the prosecution
of any cause in court, and when so signed the City shall be bound upon the
same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.04 ORDINANCE PREPARATION.
   The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances that the Council may desire
and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such ordinances
before their final passage by the Council and publication.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.05 REVIEW AND COMMENT.
   The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council giving
an opinion on all contracts, documents, resolutions, or ordinances submitted to
or coming under the City Attorney’s notice.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.06 PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.
   The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
Mayor, Clerk, Maintenance Coordinator, any police officer, or any Council
member (with Council approval).
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.07 ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.08 PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
   The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts,
forms, and other writings that may be required for the use of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
CHAPTER 21
LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
 
21.01 Public Library                   21.07 Nonresident Use
21.02 Library Trustees                 21.08 Expenditures
21.03 Qualifications of Trustees       21.09 Annual Report
21.04 Organization of the Board        21.10 Injury to Books or Property
21.05 Powers and Duties                21.11 Theft
21.06 Contracting with Other Libraries 21.12 Notice Posted
 
21.01 PUBLIC LIBRARY.
   The public library for the City is known as the Bedford Public Library. It
is referred to in this chapter as the Library.
21.02 LIBRARY TRUSTEES.
   The Board of Trustees of the Library, hereinafter referred to as the Board,
consists of six resident members and one nonresident member. All resident
members are to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council. The
nonresident member is to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the
County Board of Supervisors.
21.03 QUALIFICATIONS OF TRUSTEES.
   All resident members of the Board shall be bona fide citizens and residents
of the City. The nonresident member of the Board shall be a bona fide citizen
and resident of the unincorporated County. Members shall be over the age of 18
years.
21.04 ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD.
   The organization of the Board shall be as follows:
   1.   Term of Office. All appointments to the Board shall be for six years,
except to fill vacancies. Each term shall commence on July 1. Appointments
shall be made every two years of one-third the total number or as near as
possible, to stagger the terms.
   2.   Vacancies. The position of any resident Trustee shall be vacated if
such member moves permanently from the City. The position of a nonresident
Trustee shall be vacated if such member moves permanently from the County or
into the City. The position of any Trustee shall be deemed vacated if such
member is absent from six consecutive regular meetings of the Board, except in
the case of sickness or temporary absence from the City or County. Vacancies in
the Board shall be filled in the same manner as an original appointment except
that the new Trustee shall fill out the unexpired term for which the
appointment is made.
   3.   Compensation. Trustees shall receive no compensation for their
services.
21.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Officers. To meet and elect from its members a President, a Secretary,
and such other officers as it deems necessary. The City Treasurer shall serve
as Board Treasurer, but shall not be a member of the Board.
   2.   Physical Plant. To have charge, control and supervision of the Library,
its appurtenances, fixtures and rooms containing the same.
   3.   Charge of Affairs. To direct and control all affairs of the Library.
   4.   Hiring of Personnel. To employ a Librarian, and authorize the Librarian
to employ such assistants and employees as may be necessary for the proper
management of the Library, and fix their compensation; provided, however, prior
to such employment, the compensation of the Librarian, assistants, and
employees shall have been fixed and approved by a majority of the members of
the Board voting in favor thereof.
   5.   Removal of Personnel. To remove the Librarian, by a two-thirds vote of
the Board, and provide procedures for the removal of the assistants or
employees for misdemeanor, incompetence, or inattention to duty, subject
however, to the provisions of Chapter 35C of the Code of Iowa.
   6.   Purchases. To select, or authorize the Librarian to select, and make
purchases of books, pamphlets, magazines, periodicals, papers, maps, journals,
other Library materials, furniture, fixtures, stationery, and supplies for the
Library within budgetary limits set by the Board.
   7.   Use by Nonresidents. To authorize the use of the Library by
nonresidents and to fix charges therefor unless a contract for free service
exists.
   8.   Rules and Regulations. To make and adopt, amend, modify, or repeal
rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this Code of Ordinances and the
law, for the care, use, government and management of the Library and the
business of the Board, fixing and enforcing penalties for violations.
   9.   Expenditures. To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all funds
allocated for Library purposes by the Council, and of all moneys available by
gift or otherwise for the erection of Library buildings, and of all other
moneys belonging to the Library including fines and rentals collected under the
rules of the Board.
   10.   Gifts. To accept gifts of real property, personal property, or mixed
property, and devises and bequests, including trust funds; to take the title to
said property in the name of the Library; to execute deeds and bills of sale
for the conveyance of said property; and to expend the funds received by them
from such gifts, for the improvement of the Library.
   11.   Enforce the Performance of Conditions on Gifts. To enforce the
performance of conditions on gifts, donations, devises and bequests accepted by
the City by action against the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 661)
   12.   Record of Proceedings. To keep a record of its proceedings.
   13.   County Historical Association. To have authority to make agreements
with the local County historical association where such exists, and to set
apart the necessary room and to care for such articles as may come into the
possession of the association. The Trustees are further authorized to purchase
necessary receptacles and materials for the preservation and protection of such
articles as are in their judgment of a historical and educational nature and
pay for the same out of funds allocated for Library purposes.
21.06 CONTRACTING WITH OTHER LIBRARIES.
   The Board has power to contract with other libraries in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Contracting. The Board may contract with any other boards of trustees
of free public libraries, with any other city, school corporation, private or
semiprivate organization, institution of higher learning, township, or County,
or with the trustees of any County library district for the use of the Library
by their respective residents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.5 & Ch. 28E)
   2.   Termination. Such a contract may be terminated at any time by mutual
consent of the contracting parties. It also may be terminated by a majority
vote of the electors represented by either of the contracting parties. Such a
termination proposition shall be submitted to the electors by the governing
body of a contracting party on a written petition of not less than five percent
in number of the electors who voted for governor in the territory of the
contracting party at the last general election. The petition must be presented
to the governing body not less than 40 days before the election. The
proposition may be submitted at any election provided by law which is held in
the territory of the party seeking to terminate the contract.
21.07 NONRESIDENT USE.
   The Board may authorize the use of the Library by persons not residents of
the City or County in any one or more of the following ways:
   1.   Lending. By lending the books or other materials of the Library to
nonresidents on the same terms and conditions as to residents of the City, or
County, or upon payment of a special nonresident Library fee.
   2.   Depository. By establishing depositories of Library books or other
materials to be loaned to nonresidents.
   3.   Bookmobiles. By establishing bookmobiles or a traveling library so that
books or other Library materials may be loaned to nonresidents.
   4.   Branch Library. By establishing branch libraries for lending books or
other Library materials to nonresidents.
21.08 EXPENDITURES.
   All money appropriated by the Council for the operation and maintenance of
the Library shall be set aside in an account for the Library. Expenditures
shall be paid for only on orders of the Board, signed by its President and
Secretary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.20 & 392.5)
21.09 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Board shall make a report to the Council immediately after the close of
the fiscal year. This report shall contain statements as to the condition of
the Library, the number of books added, the number circulated, the amount of
fines collected, and the amount of money expended in the maintenance of the
Library during the year, together with such further information as may be
required by the Council.
21.10 INJURY TO BOOKS OR PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for a person willfully, maliciously or wantonly to tear,
deface, mutilate, injure or destroy, in whole or in part, any newspaper,
periodical, book, map, pamphlet, chart, picture or other property belonging to
the Library or reading room.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
21.11 THEFT.
   No person shall take possession or control of property of the Library with
the intent to deprive the Library thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
21.12 NOTICE POSTED.
   There shall be posted in clear public view within the Library notices
informing the public of the following:
   1.   Failure to Return. Failure to return Library materials for two months
or more after the date the person agreed to return the Library materials, or
failure to return Library equipment for one month or more after the date the
person agreed to return the Library equipment, is evidence of intent to deprive
the owner, provided a reasonable attempt, including the mailing by restricted
certified mail of notice that such material or equipment is overdue and
criminal actions will be taken, has been made to reclaim the materials or
equipment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.5)
   2.   Detention and Search. Persons concealing Library materials may be
detained and searched pursuant to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 808.12)
CHAPTER 22
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
 
22.01 Planning and Zoning Commission 22.04 Compensation
22.02 Term of Office                 22.05 Powers and Duties
22.03 Vacancies
 
22.01 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   The City Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the
Commission, consists of five members appointed by the Council. The Commission
members shall be residents of the City and shall not hold any elective office
in the City government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6 & 392.1)
22.02 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of the members of the Commission shall be five years. The
terms of not more than one-third of the members will expire in any one year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
22.03 VACANCIES.
   If any vacancy exists on the Commission, caused by resignation or otherwise,
a successor for the residue of the term shall be appointed in the same manner
as the original appointee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
22.04 COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except their
actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
22.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Selection of Officers. The Commission shall choose annually at its
first regular meeting one of its members to act as Chairperson and another as
Vice Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during
the Chairperson’s absence or disability.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   2.   Adopt Rules and Regulations. The Commission shall adopt such rules and
regulations governing its organization and procedure as it may deem necessary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   3.   Zoning. The Commission shall have and exercise all the powers and
duties and privileges in establishing the City zoning regulations and other
related matters and may from time to time recommend to the Council amendments,
supplements, changes or modifications, all as provided by Chapter 414 of the
Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6)
   4.   Recommendations on Improvements. The design and proposed location of
public improvements shall be submitted to the Commission for its
recommendations prior to any actions being taken by the City for the
construction or placement of such improvements. Such requirements and
recommendations shall not act as a stay upon action for any such improvement if
the Commission, after 30 days’ written notice requesting such recommendations,
has failed to file the same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   5.   Review and Comment on Plats. All plans, plats, or re-plats of
subdivisions or re-subdivisions of land in the City or adjacent thereto, laid
out in lots or plats with the streets, alleys, or other portions of the same
intended to be dedicated to the public in the City, shall first be submitted to
the Commission and its recommendations obtained before approval by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
6.   Fiscal Responsibilities. The Commission shall have full, complete, and
exclusive authority to expend, for and on behalf of the City, all sums of money
appropriated to it and to use and expend all gifts, donations, or payments that
are received by the City for City planning and zoning purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   7.   Limitation on Entering Contracts. The Commission shall have no power to
contract debts beyond the amount of its original or amended appropriation as
approved by the Council for the present year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   8.   Annual Report. The Commission shall each year make a report to the
Mayor and Council of its proceedings, with a full statement of its receipts and
disbursements and the progress of its work during the preceding fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
CHAPTER 23
PARK COMMISSION
23.01 Park Board                 23.09 Poles and Wires
23.02 Appointment                23.10 Acquisition of Land
23.03 Organization               23.11 Sale or Lease of Property
23.04 Treasurer                  23.12 Limited Leases
23.05 Compensation               23.13 Rules and Regulations
23.06 Budget Certified           23.14 Penalties
23.07 Records and Reports        23.15 Swimming Pool
23.08 Jurisdiction and Authority
 
23.01 PARK BOARD.
   There shall be a board of park commissioners for the City consisting of
three citizens of legal age.
23.02 APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor shall appoint, subject to the approval of the Council, three
persons to serve as commissioners for staggered six years terms.
23.03 ORGANIZATION.
   Within 10 days following the regular City election, the Commission shall
elect one of its members as Chairperson and one as Secretary.
23.04 TREASURER.
   The City Treasurer is the Treasurer of the Park Commission and pays out all
moneys under the control of the Park Commission on orders signed by the
Chairperson and Secretary, but receives no compensation for such services.
23.05 COMPENSATION.
   There is no compensation attached to the office of Park Commissioner, and
all services performed by said commissioners shall be rendered without
compensation therefor.
23.06 BUDGET CERTIFIED.
   The Park Commission shall submit to the Council a proposed budget and tax
levy for general park purposes for the ensuing fiscal year. The Council shall
include such tax levy, or so much thereof as it may deem necessary, in the levy
for the General Fund of the City as certified to the County Auditor.
23.07 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The Park Commission shall keep a record of all its transactions and
proceedings and submit a detailed annual report to the Council no later than
August 1 of each year of the amounts of money expended and the purposes for
which used.
23.08 JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY.
   The Park Commission has exclusive control of all parks and pleasure grounds
or of any other ground owned by the City and set apart for like purposes within
the City. All ordinances of the City shall be in full force and effect in and
over the territory occupied by such parks.
23.09 POLES AND WIRES.
   The Park Commission may regulate or forbid the erection of poles or the
stretching of wire for electric light, street railway, or other corporations or
persons in such parks or in or along streets or highways or over public places
laid out or controlled by it.
23.10 ACQUISITION OF LAND.
   The Park Commission may acquire real estate within or without the City for
park purposes by donation, lease, purchase, or condemnation, take the title to
real estate in the name of the Park Commission in trust for the public and hold
it exempt from taxation, with approval of the Council.
23.11 SALE OR LEASE OF PROPERTY.
   The Park Commission may sell, subject to the approval of the Council,
exchange, or lease any real estate acquired by it which in its discretion is
unfit, not desirable, unnecessary, or not required for park purposes.
23.12 LIMITED LEASES.
   The Park Commission may lease under reasonable rates and requirements a
particular park or portion thereof, as follows:
   1.   Organizations. For a period not in excess of 10 days to charitable,
fraternal and patriotic organizations for the conduct of celebrations,
anniversaries and entertainment.
   2.   Professional Games. For such time or times, not to exceed six
consecutive months, for the purpose of permitting the playing of professional
baseball or other professional games.
23.13 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Park Commission shall have the power to make rules and regulations for
the use of parks or other facilities under its control, such rules shall be
posted on the facility or otherwise publicized in a manner to provide adequate
notice to the public.
23.14 PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates a Park Commission rule or regulation which has been
approved by the Council and adopted by ordinance may be subjected to the
penalties provided for in the ordinance adopting the rule or regulation.
23.15 SWIMMING POOL.
   The Council shall have exclusive control of the swimming pool and the area
surrounding it which is incidental to or a part of the swimming pool facility.
CHAPTER 24
UTILITY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
 
24.01 Purpose                 24.06 Powers and Duties of the Board
24.02 Board Established       24.07 Control of Funds
24.03 Appointment of Trustees 24.08 Accounting
24.04 Compensation            24.09 Discriminatory Rates Illegal
24.05 Vacancies               24.10 Discontinuance of Board
 
24.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the operation of the
municipally owned water utility by a board of trustees.
24.02 BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to an election held February 14, 1941, the management and control
of the municipally owned Water Utility were placed in the hands of a Board of
Trustees.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.2)
24.03 APPOINTMENT OF TRUSTEES.
   The Mayor shall appoint, subject to the approval of the Council, three
persons to serve as trustees for staggered six-year terms. No public officer or
salaried employee of the City may serve on the utility board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.3)
24.04 COMPENSATION.
   The Council shall by resolution set the compensation of Board members.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.3)
24.05 VACANCIES.
   An appointment to fill a vacancy on the Board of Trustees shall be made in
the same manner as an original appointment except that such appointment shall
be for the balance of the unexpired term.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.3)
24.06 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
   The Board of Trustees may exercise all powers of the City in relation to the
water utility with the following exceptions:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.4)
   1.   Taxes, ordinances and bonds. The Board may not certify taxes to be
levied, pass ordinances or amendments, or issue general obligation or special
assessment bonds.
Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.4[1])
   2.   Property. Title to all property must be in the name of the City but the
Board has full control of such property subject to limitations imposed by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.4[2])
   3.   Reports to Council. The Board shall make a detailed annual report to
the Council including a complete financial statement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.4[3])
   4.   Proceedings Published. Immediately following a regular or special
meeting, the Board Secretary shall prepare and cause to be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the City a condensed statement of
proceedings including a list of all claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.4[4])
24.07 CONTROL OF FUNDS.
   The Board shall control tax revenues allocated to it as well as all moneys
derived from operations.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.5)
24.08 ACCOUNTING.
   Utility moneys are held in a separate utility fund, with a separate account
for each utility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.5)
24.09 DISCRIMINATORY RATES ILLEGAL.
   The utility may not provide use or service at a discriminatory rate, except
to the City or its agencies, as provided in Section 384.91, Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.6)
24.10 DISCONTINUANCE OF BOARD.
   A proposal, on motion of the Council or upon receipt of a valid petition, to
discontinue the utility board is subject to the approval of the voters of the
City, except that the Board may be discontinued by resolution of the Council
when the utility it administers is disposed of or leased for a period of over
five years.
CHAPTER 25
AIRPORT COMMISSION
 
25.01 Airport Commission   25.06 Officers
25.02 Appointment and Term 25.07 Powers and Duties
25.03 Vacancies            25.08 Rules and Regulations
25.04 Compensation         25.09 Annual Report
25.05 Bond
 
25.01 AIRPORT COMMISSION.
   There shall be an Airport Commission consisting of three resident voters of
the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.20)
25.02 APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
   Commissioners shall be appointed by the Council for staggered terms of six
years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.20)
25.03 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies shall be filled by appointment of the Council to fill out the
unexpired term for which the appointment was made.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.20)
25.04 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the commission shall serve without compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.20)
25.05 BOND.
   Each commissioner shall execute and furnish a bond in the amount of
$1,000.00, which bond shall be filed with the City Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.20)
25.06 OFFICERS.
   The commission shall elect from its own members a chairperson and secretary
who shall serve for such term as the commission shall determine.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.20)
25.07 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties.
   1.   General. The commission has all the powers in relation to airports
granted to cities under State law except powers to sell the airport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.21)
   2.   Budget. The commission shall annually certify the amount of tax to be
levied for airport purposes, and upon such certification the Council may
include all or a portion of said amount in its budget.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.21)
   3.   Funds. All funds derived from taxation or otherwise for airport
purposes shall be under the full and absolute control of the commission for the
purposes prescribed by law, and shall be deposited with the Treasurer or City
Clerk to the credit of the Airport Commission, and shall be disbursed only on
the written orders of the Airport Commission, including the payment of all
indebtedness arising from the acquisition and construction of airports and the
maintenance, operation, and extension thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.21)
25.08 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The commission shall have the power to make rules and regulations for the
use of the airport, the space above the airport, or the space above the lands
and waters included within the limits of the City; provided, however, no such
rules shall be in conflict with any State or Federal law or regulation.
25.09 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Airport Commission shall immediately after the close of each municipal
fiscal year, file with the City Clerk a detailed and audited written report of
all money received and disbursed by the commission during said fiscal year, and
shall publish a summary thereof in an official newspaper.
CHAPTER 26
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
 
26.01 Purpose and Intent 26.03 Structure of the Commission
26.02 Definitions        26.04 Powers of the Commission
 
26.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purposes of this chapter are to:
   1.   Promote the educational, cultural, economic, and general welfare of the
public through the recognition, enhancement, and perpetuation of sites and
districts of historical and cultural significance.
   2.   Safeguard the City’s historic, aesthetic, and cultural heritage by
preserving sites and districts of historic and cultural significance.
   3.   Stabilize and improve property values.
   4.   Foster pride in the legacy of beauty and achievements of the past.
   5.   Protect and enhance the City’s attractions to tourists and visitors and
the support and stimulus to business thereby provided.
   6.   Strengthen the economy of the City.
   7.   Promote the use of sites and districts of historic and cultural
significance as places for the education, pleasure, and welfare of the people
of the City.
26.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Commission” means the Bedford Historic Preservation Commission, as
established by this chapter.
   2.   “Historic district” means an area which contains a significant portion
of archaeological sites, buildings, structures or other improvements which,
considered as a whole, possess integrity of location, design, setting,
materials, workmanship, feeling and association, and which area as a whole:
      A.   Embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period or method
of construction, or represents the work of a master, or possesses high artistic
values, or represents a significant and distinguishable entity whose components
may lack individual distinction; or
      B.   Is associated with events that have made significant contributions
to the broad patterns of our local, state or national history; or
      C.   Possesses a coherent and distinctive visual character or integrity
based upon similarity of scale, design, color, setting, workmanship, materials
or combinations thereof which is deemed to add significantly to the value and
attractiveness of properties within such area; or
      D.   Is associated with the lives of persons significant in our past; or
      E.   Has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in
prehistory or history.
   3.   “Historic site” means an archaeological site, structure, or building
which:
      A.   Is associated with events that have made a significant contribution
to the broad patterns of our history; or
      B.   Is associated with the lives of persons significant in our past; or
      C.   Embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period or method
of construction or represents the work of a master, or possesses high artistic
values, or represents a significant and distinguishable entity whose components
may lack individual distinction; or
      D.   Has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in
prehistory or history.
26.03 STRUCTURE OF COMMISSION.
   1.   The Commission consists of five members who are residents of the City.
   2.   Members of the Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the Council. Members shall demonstrate a positive
interest in historic preservation, possessing interest or expertise in
architecture, architectural history, historic preservation, city planning,
building rehabilitation, conservation in general, or real estate.
   3.   The Commission members are appointed for staggered terms of three
years. Members may serve for more than one term. Each member shall serve until
the appointment of a successor.
   4.   Vacancies occurring in the Commission, other than expiration of term of
office, shall be only for the unexpired portion of the term of the member
replaced.
   5.   Members shall serve without compensation.
   6.   A simple majority of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.
   7.   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson who shall preside over all
Commission meetings and elect a Secretary who shall be responsible for
maintaining written records of the Commission’s proceedings.
   8.   The Commission shall meet at least three times a year.
26.04 POWERS OF THE COMMISSION.
   1.   The Commission may conduct studies for the identification and
designation of historic districts and sites meeting the definitions established
by this chapter. The Commission may proceed at its own initiative or upon a
petition from any person, group or association. The Commission shall maintain
records of all studies and inventories for public use.
   2.   The Commission may make a recommendation to the State Bureau of
Historic Preservation for the listing of an historic district or site in the
National Register of Historic Places and may conduct a public hearing thereon.
   3.   The Commission may investigate and recommend to the Council the
adoption of ordinances designating historic sites and historic districts if
they qualify as defined herein.
   4.   In addition to those duties and powers specified above, the Commission
may, with Council approval,
      A.   Accept unconditional gifts and donations of real and personal
property, including money, for the purpose of historic preservation;
      B.   Acquire, by purchase, bequest or donation, fee and lesser interests
in historic properties, including properties adjacent to or associated with
historic properties;
      C.   Preserve, restore, maintain, and operate historic properties under
the ownership or control of the Commission;
      D.   Lease, sell and otherwise transfer or dispose of historic properties
subject to rights of public access and other covenants and in a manner that
will preserve the property;
      E.   Contract with State or federal government or other organizations;
      F.   Cooperate with federal, State and local governments in the pursuance
of the objectives of historic preservation;
      G.   Provide information for the purpose of historic preservation to the
Council; and
      H.   Promote and conduct an educational and interpretive program on
historic properties within its jurisdiction.
CHAPTER 27
CEMETERY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
 
27.01 Definition               27.07 Perpetual Care Registry
27.02 Board Created            27.08 Cemetery Lots Without Perpetual Care
27.03 Board Organization       27.09 Annual Care
27.04 Powers and Duties        27.10 Burial of Paupers
27.05 Sale of Interment Rights 27.11 Trusteeship
27.06 Perpetual Care           27.12 Establishment of Trust Fund
 
27.01 DEFINITION.
   The term “cemetery” means the Bedford Cemetery, which is a municipal
cemetery under the provisions of Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa and which
shall be operated under the provisions of Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa and
this chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.501)
27.02 BOARD CREATED.
   A Cemetery Board of Trustees (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) is
responsible for the maintenance and operation of the cemetery. The Board shall
also advise the Council, from time to time, on the need for additional cemetery
facilities.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.501 and 523I.502)
27.03 BOARD ORGANIZATION.
   The Board shall consist of five members, all residents of the City,
appointed by the Mayor with approval of the Council for overlapping terms of
six years. Members shall serve without compensation, but may receive their
actual expenses. A vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as the original
appointment.
27.04 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Officers. To elect from its members a President, Vice President,
Secretary, and Treasurer and such other officers it deems necessary.
   2.   Rules and Regulations. To adopt such rules and regulations governing
its organization and procedures as it may deem necessary.
   3.   Cemetery Regulations. To have charge and control of the cemetery and to
adopt rules and regulations for the cemetery. The rules may cover such things
as the use, care, control, management, restrictions and protection of the
cemetery as necessary for the proper conduct of the business of the cemetery.
The rules shall specify the cemetery’s obligations in the event that interment
spaces, memorials, or memorializations are damaged or defaced by acts of
vandalism. Any veteran, as defined in Section 35.1 of the Code of Iowa, or a
resident of the State who served in the armed forces of the United States,
completed a minimum aggregate of 90 days of active federal service and was
discharged under honorable conditions, who is a landowner or who lives within
the City shall be allowed to purchase an interment space and to be interred
within the cemetery.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.304)
   4.   Superintendent/Sexton. To employ a Cemetery Superintendent/Sexton who
shall maintain and have general charge of the cemetery in accordance with the
rules and regulations therefor and under the direction of the Board.
   5.   Expenditures. To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all funds
allocated for cemetery purposes by the Council, and of all moneys available by
gift or otherwise from the sale of lots, etc., and of all other moneys
belonging to the cemetery collected under the rules of the Board. All money
appropriated by the Council for the operation and maintenance of the cemetery
shall be set aside in an account for the cemetery. Expenditures shall be paid
for only on orders of the Board, signed by its President and Secretary.
   6.   Budget. The Board will be responsible for a timely preparation and
submission of a budget to the Council.
   7.   Meetings. To be entitled to the use of the City Hall as its meeting
place. Special meetings of the Board may be called by the President and must be
called by the President when requested in writing by three members of the
Board. Three members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business.
   8.   Records. To cause the cemetery to be surveyed, platted and laid out
into subdivisions, blocks and lots, and to make and keep complete records
identifying the owners of all interment rights sold by the cemetery and
historical information regarding any transfers of ownership. The records shall
include all of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.311)
      A.   Sales or Transfers of Interment Rights.
         (1)   The name and last known address of each owner or previous owner
of interment rights.
         (2)   The date of each purchase or transfer of interment rights.
         (3)   A unique numeric or alphanumeric identifier that identifies the
location of each interment space sold by the cemetery.
      B.   Interments.
         (1)   The date the remains are interred.
         (2)   The name, date of birth and date of death of the decedent
interred, if those facts can be conveniently obtained.
         (3)   A unique numeric or alphanumeric identifier that identifies the
location of each interment space where the remains are interred.
   9.   Reports to Council. The Board shall make written reports to the Council
of its activities monthly or upon Council request. Its revenues and
expenditures shall be reported monthly to the Council by the Secretary and
Treasurer of the Board in the manner of other departmental expenditures and a
copy shall be included in the Clerk’s report to the Council.
27.05 SALE OF INTERMENT RIGHTS.
   The sale or transfer of interment rights in the cemetery shall be evidenced
by a certificate of interment rights or other instrument evidencing the
conveyance of exclusive rights of interment upon payment in full of the
purchase price. The agreement for interment rights shall disclose all
information required by the Iowa Cemetery Act, including the amount or
percentage of money to be placed in the perpetual care cemetery fund.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.310)
27.06 PERPETUAL CARE.
   The Board, by resolution, shall accept, receive, and expend all moneys and
property donated or left to them by bequest for perpetual care, and that
portion of interment space sales or permanent charges made against interment
spaces which has been set aside in a perpetual care fund. The assets of the
perpetual care fund shall be invested in accordance with State law. The Board,
by resolution, shall provide for the payment of interest annually to the
appropriate fund, or to the cemetery, or to the person in charge of the
cemetery to be used in caring for or maintaining the individual property of the
donor in the cemetery, or interment spaces which have been sold with provisions
for perpetual care, all in accordance with the terms of the donation or
bequest, or the terms of the sale or purchase of an interment space and Chapter
523I of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.503, 523I.507 & 523I.508)
27.07 PERPETUAL CARE REGISTRY.
   The cemetery shall maintain a registry of individuals who have purchased
interment rights in the cemetery subject to the care fund requirements of the
Iowa Cemetery Act, including the amounts deposited in the perpetual care
cemetery fund.
27.08 CEMETERY LOTS WITHOUT PERPETUAL CARE.
   Owners of lots or other interested persons may secure perpetual care on lots
or parts of lots in the older portions of the cemetery not having perpetual
care by the payment to the Board of the perpetual care charges at the rates
specified in the rules and regulations.
27.09 ANNUAL CARE.
   An annual care charge as specified in the rules and regulations shall be
made by the Board on those lots in the older portions of the cemetery which are
not at present under perpetual or endowed care. The Board reserves the right to
refuse to furnish maintenance service, or to permit the erection of any
monument work on those lots not under perpetual or endowed care or when the
annual care on such lot has not been paid in advance.
27.10 BURIAL OF PAUPERS.
   The Board shall have the power to set aside a section or part of the
cemetery for burial of paupers. The Board shall have the power to grant burial
space in said section or part, without charge, and may in exceptional cases pay
for the digging of the graves therein. No cemetery deed or agreement for
perpetual care shall be given for burial space in said section or part, but in
lieu thereof a special permit for burial therein shall be given by the
President and Secretary of the Board, which permit shall be entered by the
Secretary in the cemetery records without charge. The City shall not be under
any liability for the care or upkeep of the graves in said section or part. The
Board shall be the exclusive judge in each particular case as to the necessity
of allowing a burial in said section or part.
27.11 TRUSTEESHIP.
   Pursuant to Section 523I.502 of the Code of Iowa, the City hereby states its
willingness and intention to act as the trustee for the perpetual maintenance
of interment spaces in the Bedford City Cemetery.
27.12 ESTABLISHMENT OF TRUST FUND.
   1.   A perpetual trust is hereby established for the Bedford City Cemetery
in accordance with Code of Iowa Chapter 523I, the Iowa Cemetery Act. A
restricted fund is created, to be known and designated as the Perpetual Care
Cemetery Fund, which shall be funded by the deposit of an amount equal to or
greater than 20 percent of the gross selling price, or $50.00, whichever is
more, for each sale of interment space within the cemetery. The fund shall be
administered in accordance with the purposes and provisions of Code of Iowa
Chapter 523I.
   2.   The Perpetual Care Cemetery Fund shall be maintained separate from all
operating funds of the cemetery and the principal of the fund shall not be
reduced voluntarily except as specifically permitted by the Iowa Cemetery Act
and applicable administrative regulations.
CHAPTER 28
CITY TREE BOARD
 
28.01 Establishment of Board 28.03 Duties
28.02 Compensation
 
28.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD.
   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board for the City,
which shall consist of four members and one Council representative chosen by
the Mayor and confirmed by the Council.
28.02 COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
28.03 DUTIES.
   The Board shall carry out the following:
   1.   It is the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate, counsel
and develop a written plan for the care, preservation, trimming, planting,
replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in public areas. Such a
plan will be presented to the Council and upon its acceptance and approval
shall constitute the official comprehensive tree plan for the City. The Board
shall review annually and update, if needed, the comprehensive tree plan. The
Board, when requested by the Council, shall consider, investigate, make
findings, report and recommend upon any special matter or question within the
scope of its work.
   2.   The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
regulations, and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members
shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
CHAPTER 29
TELECOMMUNICATIONS UTILITY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
 
29.01 Purpose                        29.06 Control of Funds
29.02 Appointment of Trustees        29.07 Accounting
29.03 Compensation                   29.08 Discriminatory Rates Illegal
29.04 Vacancies                      29.09 Discontinuance of Board
29.05 Powers and Duties of the Board
 
29.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the management and control of
the of the municipally owned cable communications or television system,
telephone or telecommunications system (including video, voice, telephone,
data, and all other forms of telecommunications and cable communications)
utility by a Board of Trustees.
29.02 APPOINTMENT OF TRUSTEES.
   The Mayor shall appoint, subject to the approval of the Council, five
persons to serve as trustees for staggered six year terms. No public officer or
salaried employee of the City may serve on the utility board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.3)
29.03 COMPENSATION.
   The Council shall by resolution set the compensation of the Board members.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.3)
29.04 VACANCIES.
   An appointment to fill a vacancy on the Board of Trustees shall be made in
the same manner as an original appointment except that such appointment shall
be for the balance of the unexpired term.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.3)
29.05 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
   The Board of Trustees may exercise all powers of the City in relation to the
City utilities it administers, with the following exceptions:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.4)
   1.   Taxes, Ordinances, and Bonds. The Board may not certify taxes to be
levied, pass ordinances, or amendments, or issue general obligation or special
assessment bonds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.4[1])
   2.   Property. The title to all property of the City utilities must be held
in the name of the City, but the Utility Board has all the powers and authority
of the City with respect to the acquisition by purchase, condemnation, or
otherwise lease, sale, or other disposition of such property, and the
management, control, and operation of the same, subject to the requirements,
terms, covenants, conditions, and provisions of any resolutions authorizing the
issuance of revenue bonds, pledge orders, or other obligations which are
payable from the revenues of the City utilities, which are then outstanding.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.4[2])
   3.   Reports to the Council. The Board shall make a detailed annual report
to the Council including a complete financial statement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.4[3])
   4.   Proceedings Published. Immediately following a regular or special
meeting of the Board, the Secretary shall prepare a condensed statement of the
proceedings of the Board and cause the statement to be published in a newspaper
of general circulation in the City. The statement must include a list of all
claims allowed, showing the name of the person or firm making the claim, the
reason for the claim, and the amount of the claim. Salary claims must show the
gross amount of the claim, except that salaries paid to persons regularly
employed by the utility for services regularly performed by them, must be
published once annually showing the gross amount of the salary. Failure by the
Secretary to make publication is a simple misdemeanor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.4[4])
29.06 CONTROL OF FUNDS.
   The Board shall control tax revenues allocated to it as well as all moneys
derived from operations.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.5)
29.07 ACCOUNTING.
   Utility moneys are held in a separate utility fund, with a separate account
for each utility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.5)
29.08 DISCRIMINATORY RATES ILLEGAL.
   A utility may not provide use or service at a discriminatory rate, except to
the City or its agencies, as provided in Section 384.91, Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.6)
29.09 DISCONTINUANCE OF BOARD.
   A proposal, on motion of the Council or upon receipt of a valid petition to
discontinue the Utility Board is subject to the approval of the voters of the
City, except that the Board may be discontinued by resolution of the Council
when the utility it administers is disposed of or leased for a period over five
years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.2)
CHAPTER 30
POLICE DEPARTMENT
 
30.01 Department Established       30.07 Powers and Duties of Police Chief
30.02 Organization                 30.08 Departmental Rules
30.03 Peace Officer Qualifications 30.09 Summoning Aid
30.04 Required Training            30.10 Taking Weapons
30.05 Compensation                 30.11 Contract Law Enforcement
30.06 Peace Officers Appointed
 
30.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   The Police Department of the City is established to provide for the
preservation of peace and enforcement of law and ordinances within the
corporate limits of the City.
30.02 ORGANIZATION.
   The department consists of the Police Chief and such other law enforcement
officers and personnel, whether full or part time, as may be authorized by the
Council.
30.03 PEACE OFFICER QUALIFICATIONS.
   In no case shall any person be selected or appointed as a law enforcement
officer unless such person meets the minimum qualification standards
established by the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11)
30.04 REQUIRED TRAINING.
   All peace officers shall have received the minimum training required by law
at an approved law enforcement training school within one year of employment.
Peace officers shall also meet the minimum in-service training as required by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11[2])
(IAC, 501-3 and 501-8)
30.05 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the department are designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
30.06 PEACE OFFICERS APPOINTED.
   The Mayor shall appoint and dismiss the Police Chief subject to the consent
of a majority of the Council. The Police Chief shall recommend qualified
candidates for peace officers for Mayor and Council approval.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
30.07 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.
   The Police Chief has the following powers and duties subject to the approval
of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   General. Perform all duties required of the Police Chief by law or
ordinance.
   2.   Enforce Laws. Enforce all laws, ordinances, and regulations and bring
all persons committing any offense before the proper court.
   3.   Writs. Execute and return all writs and other processes directed to the
Police Chief.
   4.   Accident Reports. Report all motor vehicle accidents investigated to
the State Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.266)
   5.   Prisoners. Be responsible for the custody of prisoners, including
conveyance to detention facilities as may be required.
   6.   Assist Officials. When requested, provide aid to other City officers,
boards, and commissions in the execution of their official duties.
   7.   Investigations. Provide for such investigation as may be necessary for
the prosecution of any person alleged to have violated any law or ordinance.
   8.   Record of Arrests. Keep a record of all arrests made in the City by
showing whether said arrests were made under provisions of State law or City
ordinance, the offense charged, who made the arrest and the disposition of the
charge.
   9.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report
as well as such other reports as may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
   10.   Command. Be in command of all officers appointed for police work and
be responsible for the care, maintenance, and use of all vehicles, equipment,
and materials of the department.
30.08 DEPARTMENTAL RULES.
   The Police Chief shall establish such rules, not in conflict with the Code
of Ordinances, and subject to the approval of the Council, as may be necessary
for the operation of the department.
30.09 SUMMONING AID.
   Any peace officer making a legal arrest may orally summon as many persons as
the officer reasonably finds necessary to aid the officer in making the arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.17)
30.10 TAKING WEAPONS.
   Any person who makes an arrest may take from the person arrested all items
that are capable of causing bodily harm which the arrested person may have
within such person’s control, to be disposed of according to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.18)
30.11 CONTRACT LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   In lieu of the appointment of a Police Chief by the Mayor as provided by
Section
30.06, the Council may contract with the County Sheriff or any other qualified
lawful entity to provide law enforcement services within the City and in such
event the Sheriff or such other entity shall have and exercise the powers and
duties of the Police Chief as provided herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 28E.30)
CHAPTER 35
FIRE DEPARTMENT
 
35.01 Establishment and Purpose 35.08 Constitution
35.02 Organization              35.09 Accidental Injury Insurance
35.03 Training                  35.10 Liability Insurance
35.04 Compensation              35.11 Calls Outside Fire District
35.05 Election of Officers      35.12 Mutual Aid
35.06 Duties of Fire Chief      35.13 Authority to Cite Violations
35.07 Obedience to Fire Chief   35.14 Bedford Rural Fire Protection Association
 
35.01 ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
   A volunteer fire department is hereby established to prevent and extinguish
fires and to protect lives and property against fires, to promote fire
prevention and fire safety, and to answer all emergency calls for which there
is no other established agency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.16)
35.02 ORGANIZATION.
   The department consists of the Fire Chief and such other officers and
personnel as may be authorized by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.03 TRAINING.
   All members of the department shall meet the minimum training standards
established by the State Fire Marshal and attend and actively participate in
regular or special training drills or programs as directed by the Fire Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100B.2[4])
35.04 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the department shall be designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.05 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   The department shall elect a Fire Chief and such other officers as its
constitution and bylaws may provide, but the election of the Fire Chief shall
be subject to the approval of the Council. In case of absence of the Fire
Chief, the officer next in rank shall be in charge and have and exercise all
the powers of Fire Chief.
35.06 DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall perform all duties required of the Fire Chief by law or
ordinance, including (but not limited to) the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Enforce Laws. Enforce ordinances and laws regulating fire prevention
and the investigation of the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires.
   2.   Technical Assistance. Upon request, give advice concerning private fire
alarm systems, fire extinguishing equipment, fire escapes and exits, and
development of fire emergency plans.
   3.   Authority at Fires. When in charge of a fire scene, direct an operation
as necessary to extinguish or control a fire, perform a rescue operation,
investigate the existence of a suspected or reported fire, gas leak, or other
hazardous condition, or take any other action deemed necessary in the
reasonable performance of the department’s duties.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
   4.   Control of Scenes. Prohibit an individual, vehicle, or vessel from
approaching a fire scene and remove from the scene any object, vehicle, vessel,
or individual that may impede or interfere with the operation of the Fire
Department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
   5.   Authority to Barricade. When in charge of a fire scene, place or erect
ropes, guards, barricades, or other obstructions across a street, alley, right-
of-way, or private property near the location of the fire or emergency so as to
prevent accidents or interference with the firefighting efforts of the Fire
Department, to control the scene until any required investigation is complete,
or to preserve evidence related to the fire or other emergency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.3)
   6.   Command. Be charged with the duty of maintaining the efficiency,
discipline, and control of the Fire Department. The members of the Fire
Department shall, at all times, be subject to the direction of the Fire Chief.
   7.   Property. Exercise and have full control over the disposition of all
fire apparatus, tools, equipment, and other property used by or belonging to
the Fire Department.
   8.   Notification. Whenever death, serious bodily injury, or property damage
in excess of $200,000.00 has occurred as a result of a fire, or if arson is
suspected, notify the State Fire Marshal’s Division immediately. For all other
fires causing an estimated damage of $50.00 or more or emergency responses by
the Fire Department, file a report with the Fire Marshal’s Division within 10
days following the end of the month. The report shall indicate all fire
incidents occurring and state the name of the owners and occupants of the
property at the time of the fire, the value of the property, the estimated
total loss to the property, origin of the fire as determined by investigation,
and other facts, statistics, and circumstances concerning the fire incidents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.2 & 100.3)
   9.   Right of Entry. Have the right, during reasonable hours, to enter any
building or premises within the Fire Chief’s jurisdiction for the purpose of
making such investigation or inspection that under law or ordinance may be
necessary to be made and that is reasonably necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.12)
   10.   Recommendation. Make such recommendations to owners, occupants,
caretakers, or managers of buildings necessary to eliminate fire hazards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.13)
   11.   Assist State Fire Marshal. At the request of the State Fire Marshal,
and as provided by law, aid said marshal in the performance of duties by
investigating, preventing and reporting data pertaining to fires.
   12.   Records. Cause to be kept records of the Fire Department personnel,
firefighting equipment, depreciation of all equipment and apparatus, the number
of responses to alarms, their cause, and location, and an analysis of losses by
value, type and location of buildings.
   13.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report
of the status and activities of the department as well as such other reports as
may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
35.07 OBEDIENCE TO FIRE CHIEF.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of the Fire Chief.
35.08 CONSTITUTION.
   The department shall adopt a constitution and bylaws as they deem calculated
to accomplish the object contemplated, and such constitution and bylaws and any
change or amendment to such constitution and bylaws before being effective,
must be approved by the Council.
35.09 ACCIDENTAL INJURY INSURANCE.
   The Council shall contract to insure the City against liability for worker’s
compensation and against statutory liability for the costs of hospitalization,
nursing, and medical attention for volunteer firefighters injured in the
performance of their duties as firefighters whether within or outside the
corporate limits of the City. All volunteer firefighters shall be covered by
the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 85.2, 85.61 and Sec. 410.18)
35.10 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The Council shall contract to insure against liability of the City or
members of the department for injuries, death or property damage arising out of
and resulting from the performance of departmental duties within or outside the
corporate limits of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.2 and 517A.1)
35.11 CALLS OUTSIDE FIRE DISTRICT.
   The department shall answer calls to fires and other emergencies outside the
Fire District if the Fire Chief determines that such emergency exists and that
such action will not endanger persons and property within the Fire District.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
35.12 MUTUAL AID.
   Subject to approval by resolution of the Council, the department may enter
into mutual aid agreements with other legally constituted fire departments.
Copies of any such agreements shall be filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
35.13 AUTHORITY TO CITE VIOLATIONS.
   Fire officials acting under the authority of Chapter 10A, Subchapter V, Part
2 of the Code of Iowa, may issue citations in accordance with Chapter 805 of
the Code of Iowa, for violations of Chapter 10A, Subchapter V, Part 2 of the
Code of Iowa or a violation of a local fire safety code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.41)
(Section 35.13 – Ord. 472 – Mar. 25 Supp.)
35.14 BEDFORD RURAL FIRE PROTECTION ASSOCIATION.
   The department shall, in accordance with an agreement between the City and
the Bedford Rural Fire Protection Association, respond to all fire calls it
receives from the rural area designated as follows: all of Benton, Bedford,
Ross, Clayton and Jackson Townships and the Northeast Quarter (NE¼) of Gay
Township, Taylor County, Iowa.
CHAPTER 36
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SPILLS
 
36.01 Purpose                     36.05 Notifications
36.02 Definitions                 36.06 Police Authority
36.03 Cleanup Required            36.07 Liability
36.04 Liability for Cleanup Costs
 
36.01 PURPOSE.
   In order to reduce the danger to the public health, safety, and welfare from
the leaks and spills of hazardous substances, these regulations are promulgated
to establish responsibility for the treatment, removal and cleanup of hazardous
substance spills within the City limits.
36.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Cleanup” means actions necessary to contain, collect, control,
identify, analyze, clean up, treat, disperse, remove, or dispose of a hazardous
substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[1])
   2.   “Hazardous condition” means any situation involving the actual,
imminent, or probable spillage, leakage, or release of a hazardous substance
onto the land, into a water of the State, or into the atmosphere which creates
an immediate or potential danger to the public health or safety or to the
environment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[4])
   3.   “Hazardous substance” means any substance or mixture of substances that
presents a danger to the public health or safety and includes, but is not
limited to, a substance that is toxic, corrosive, or flammable, or that is an
irritant or that generates pressure through decomposition, heat, or other
means. “Hazardous substance” may include any hazardous waste identified or
listed by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency under the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or any toxic pollutant listed under
Section 307 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1,
1977, or any hazardous substance designated under Section 311 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous
material designated by the Secretary of Transportation under the Hazardous
Materials Transportation Act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[5])
   4.   “Responsible person” means a person who at any time produces, handles,
stores, uses, transports, refines, or disposes of a hazardous substance, the
release of which creates a hazardous condition, including bailees, carriers,
and any other person in control of a hazardous substance when a hazardous
condition occurs, whether the person owns the hazardous substance or is
operating under a lease, contract, or other agreement with the legal owner of
the hazardous substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[7])
36.03 CLEANUP REQUIRED.
   Whenever a hazardous condition is created by the deposit, injection,
dumping, spilling, leaking or placing of a hazardous substance, so that the
hazardous substance or a constituent of the hazardous substance may enter the
environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including
ground waters, the responsible person shall cause the condition to be remedied
by a cleanup, as defined in the preceding section, as rapidly as feasible to an
acceptable, safe condition. The costs of cleanup shall be borne by the
responsible person. If the responsible person does not cause the cleanup to
begin in a reasonable time in relation to the hazard and circumstances of the
incident, the City may, by an authorized officer, give reasonable notice, based
on the character of the hazardous condition, said notice setting a deadline for
accomplishing the cleanup and stating that the City will proceed to procure
cleanup services and bill the responsible person for all costs associated with
the cleanup if the cleanup is not accomplished within the deadline. In the
event that it is determined that immediate cleanup is necessary as a result of
the present danger to the public health, safety and welfare, then no notice
shall be required and the City may proceed to procure the cleanup and bill the
responsible person for all costs associated with the cleanup. If the bill for
those services is not paid within 30 days, the City Attorney shall proceed to
obtain payment by all legal means. If the cost of the cleanup is beyond the
capacity of the City to finance it, the authorized officer shall report to the
Council and immediately seek any State or federal funds available for said
cleanup.
36.04 LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS.
   The responsible person shall be strictly liable to the City for all of the
following:
   1.   The reasonable cleanup costs incurred by the City or the agents of the
City as a result of the failure of the responsible person to clean up a
hazardous substance involved in a hazardous condition.
   2.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City or the agents of the City to
evacuate people from the area threatened by a hazardous condition caused by the
person.
   3.   The reasonable damages to the City for the injury to, destruction of,
or loss of City property, including parks and roads, resulting from a hazardous
condition caused by that person, including the costs of assessing the injury,
destruction or loss.
   4.   The excessive and extraordinary cost incurred by the City or the agents
of the City in responding at and to the scene of a hazardous condition caused
by that person.
36.05 NOTIFICATIONS.
   1.   A person manufacturing, storing, handling, transporting, or disposing
of a hazardous substance shall notify the State Department of Natural Resources
and the Police Chief of the occurrence of a hazardous condition as soon as
possible but not later than six hours after the onset of the hazardous
condition or discovery of the hazardous condition. The Police Chief shall
immediately notify the Department of Natural Resources.
   2.   Any other person who discovers a hazardous condition shall notify the
Police Department, which shall then notify the Department of Natural Resources.
36.06 POLICE AUTHORITY.
   If the circumstances reasonably so require, the law enforcement officer or
an authorized representative may:
   1.   Evacuate persons from their homes to areas away from the site of a
hazardous condition, and
   2.   Establish perimeters or other boundaries at or near the site of a
hazardous condition and limit access to cleanup personnel.
No person shall disobey an order of any law enforcement officer issued under
this section.
36.07 LIABILITY.
   The City shall not be liable to any person for claims of damages, injuries,
or losses resulting from any hazardous condition, unless the City is the
responsible person as defined in Section
36.02(4).
CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC PEACE
 
40.01 Assault            40.04 Unlawful Assembly
40.02 Harassment         40.05 Failure to Disperse
40.03 Disorderly Conduct
 
40.01 ASSAULT.
   No person shall, without justification, commit any of the following:
   1.   Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to cause pain or injury to
another or that is intended to result in physical contact that will be
insulting or offensive to another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute
the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[1])
   2.   Threat of Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to place another in
fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting,
or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[2])
An act described in Subsections 1 and 2 shall not be an assault under the
following circumstances: (i) if the person doing any of the enumerated acts,
and such other person, are voluntary participants in a sport, social or other
activity, not in itself criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable
incident of such sport or activity, and does not create an unreasonable risk of
serious injury or breach of the peace; (ii) if the person doing any of the
enumerated acts is employed by a school district or accredited nonpublic
school, or is an area education agency staff member who provides services to a
school or school district, and intervenes in a fight or physical struggle or
other disruptive situation that takes place in the presence of the employee or
staff member performing employment duties in a school building, on school
grounds, or at an official school function, regardless of the location, whether
the fight or physical struggle or other disruptive situation is between
students or other individuals, if the degree and the force of the intervention
is reasonably necessary to restore order and to protect the safety of those
assembled.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1)
40.02 HARASSMENT.
   No person shall commit harassment.
   1.   A person commits harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy, or
alarm another person, the person does any of the following:
      A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing, or via
electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner likely to
cause the other person annoyance or harm.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      B.   Places any simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in or
near any building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or railroad car, or boat
occupied by the other person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be delivered
to another, without such other person’s knowledge or consent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law
enforcement authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing
that the information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal
act, knowing the same did not occur.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   2.   A person commits harassment when the person, purposefully and without
legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another person, with the intent
to threaten, intimidate or alarm that other person. As used in this section,
unless the context otherwise requires, “personal contact” means an encounter in
which two or more people are in visual or physical proximity to each other.
“Personal contact” does not require a physical touching or oral communication,
although it may include these types of contacts.
40.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall do any of the following:
   1.   Fighting. Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place or
in or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that participants in
athletic contests may engage in such conduct that is reasonably related to that
sport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1])
   2.   Noise. Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence or
public building which causes unreasonable distress to the occupants thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[2])
   3.   Abusive Language. Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening
gesture that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a
violent reaction by another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[3])
   4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly. Without lawful authority or color of
authority, disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct
intended to disrupt the meeting or assembly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[4])
   5.   False Report of Catastrophe. By words or action, initiate or circulate
a report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe, knowing such
report to be false or such warning to be baseless.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[5])
   6.   Disrespect of Flag. Knowingly and publicly use the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault. As used in this
subsection:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[6])
      A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.
      B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.
      C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material designed to be
flown from a pole or mast.
      D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to make
imperfect.
      E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or trample.
      F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or intentionally cause a
machine, vehicle, or animal to tread upon.
   7.   Obstruct Use of Street. Without authority or justification, obstruct
any street, sidewalk, highway, or other public way, with the intent to prevent
or hinder its lawful use by others.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[7])
   8.   Funeral or Memorial Service. Within 1,000 feet of the building or other
location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or within
1,000 feet of a funeral procession or burial:
      A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.
      B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the
person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent reaction
by another.
      C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral
procession, or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral,
memorial service, funeral procession, or burial.
This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)
40.04 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It is unlawful for three or more persons to assemble together, with them or
any of them acting in a violent manner, and with intent that they or any of
them will commit a public offense. No person shall willingly join in or remain
part of an unlawful assembly, knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe
it is such.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.2)
40.05 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   A peace officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly or
persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to disperse.
No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to obey.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3)
CHAPTER 41
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
                                                         41.08 Abandoned or
41.01 Distributing Dangerous Substances                  Unattended
                                                         Refrigerators
41.02 False Reports to or Communications with Public     41.09 Antenna and
Safety Entities                                          Radio Wires
                                                         41.10 Barbed Wire and
                                                         Electric Fences
41.03 Providing False Identification Information         41.11 Discharging
                                                         Weapons
41.04 Refusing to Assist Officer                         41.12 Throwing and
                                                         Shooting
41.05 Harassment of Public Officers and Employees        41.13 Urinating and
                                                         Defecating
41.06 Interference with Official Acts                    41.14 Fireworks
41.07 Removal of an Officer’s Communication or Control
Device
 
41.01 DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any
corrosive, caustic, poisonous or other injurious substance unless the person
delivers such into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes
reasonable precautions that the substance will not be taken by children or
animals from the place where the substance is deposited.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)
41.02 FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.
   No person shall do any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)
   1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire department,
a law enforcement authority or other public safety entity, knowing that the
information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a criminal act
knowing the act did not occur.
   2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that he or
she is not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information or
assistance.
   3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.
41.03 PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
   No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to anyone
known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is
within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency
medical care provider, or firefighter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)
41.04 REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
   Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make an
arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required. No person shall unreasonably and without lawful cause,
refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)
41.05 HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer
or employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)
41.06 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.
   No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to
be a peace officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider under Chapter 147A
of the Code of Iowa, or firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, or a person
performing bailiff duties pursuant to Section 602.1303[4] of the Code of Iowa,
in the performance of any act that is within the scope of the lawful duty or
authority of that officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, or person performing bailiff duties, or shall knowingly resist or
obstruct the service or execution by any authorized person of any civil or
criminal process or order of any court. The terms “resist” and “obstruct” as
used in this section do not include verbal harassment unless the verbal
harassment is accompanied by a present ability and apparent intention to
execute a verbal threat physically.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)
41.07 REMOVAL OF AN OFFICER’S COMMUNICATION OR CONTROL DEVICE.
   No person shall knowingly or intentionally remove or attempt to remove a
communication device or any device used for control from the possession of a
peace officer or correctional officer, when the officer is in the performance
of any act which is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that
officer and the person knew or should have known the individual to be an
officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.12)
41.08 ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.
   No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings on
premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended and so
accessible to children.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)
41.09 ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.
   It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground, or public building without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.10 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City limits without the written consent of the Council unless
such land consists of 10 acres or more and is used as agricultural land.
41.11 DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
   1.   It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns, or other firearms of any kind within the City limits except by
written consent of the Council.
   2.   No person shall intentionally discharge a firearm in a reckless manner.
41.12 THROWING AND SHOOTING.
   It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks, or missiles of any kind
or to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, BB guns,
or other dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground, or public building, without written
consent of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.13 URINATING AND DEFECATING.
   It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk,
street, alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building,
including but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway,
doorway, or window thereof, or onto any public or private land.
41.14 FIREWORKS.
   The sale, use or exploding of fireworks within the City is subject to the
following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.2)
   1.   Definition. For purposes of this section, definitions are enumerated in
the Section 727.2 of the Code of Iowa, which definitions are incorporated
herein by reference.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.2)
   2.   Sales - General Requirements. Prior to any person engaging in the sale
of consumer fireworks, the following shall be provided to the Fire Chief:
      A.   License. Proof of valid license issued from the State Fire Marshal.
      B.   Liability Insurance. Proof of liability insurance separate from the
building property insurance specifically showing coverage of fireworks sales
for an aggregate amount of $2,000,000.
      C.   Fire Inspection. Any property, building, or premise whether it be
permanent or temporary, intended for the sale of consumer fireworks shall have
an initial fire inspection completed by the Fire Chief prior to engaging in the
sale of consumer fireworks. The Fire Chief shall cause an annual inspection to
occur meeting the requirements of the National Fire Protection Code 1124 (2006
edition) and the current fire code adopted by the City of Bedford. Inspection
costs shall be assessed as follows:
         (1)   Permanent structure where fireworks are sold - annual inspection
fee of $100.00.
         (2)   Temporary or non-brick or mortar building where fireworks are
sold - annual inspection fee of $200.00.
   3.   Dates of Sale. Consumer fireworks sales shall only be conducted in
accordance with dates and times designated by Code of Iowa Section 727.2. It is
unlawful to sell consumer fireworks without meeting the requirements specified
in this section, or to sell fireworks outside of the dates specified.
      A.   Approved consumer fireworks sales meeting the requirements of this
section shall be allowed from an approved permanent structure or building
between June 1 and July 8 and from December 10 until January 3.
      B.   Approved consumer fireworks sales meeting the requirements of this
section shall be allowed from an approved temporary structure between June 13
and July 8.
   4.   Safety Requirements. The following safety requirements shall be adopted
for all locations where consumer fireworks are sold:
      A.   Not more than 100 pounds of total aggregate weight of DOT 1.4 class
consumer fireworks shall be located inside a commercial business with other
mercantile products for sale.
      B.   Not more than 500 pounds of total aggregate weight of DOT 1.4 class
consumer fireworks shall be located inside a building where fireworks are the
primary business.
      C.   Not more than 1000 pounds of total aggregate weight of DOT 1.4 class
consumer fireworks shall be located in a temporary structure used primarily for
fireworks sales.
      D.   Any permanent structure used primarily for the purpose of consumer
fireworks sales shall be located 35 feet from a property line, public roadway,
alley, or highway; and 70 feet from an inhabited building.
      E.   Any temporary structure having between 500 and 1000 pounds of total
aggregate weight of DOT 1.4 class consumer fireworks shall be located 55 feet
from a property line, public roadway, alley, or highway; and 110 feet from an
inhabited building.
      F.   Smoking, open flame source, or matches shall not be located within
50 feet where consumer fireworks are sold. The following exemptions apply:
         (1)   Lighters and matches may be sold as part of a retail business in
commercial structures who engage in other merchandise sales where consumer
fireworks are not the primary business.
         (2)   Locations that engage in consumer fireworks sales as a primary
source of revenue may sell extended lighters so long as lighters are located in
a sealed package and not opened within the store premises.
      G.   All electrical wiring shall meet NFPA 70 National Electrical Code.
Permanent structures or buildings used primarily for consumer fireworks sales
shall meet wiring requirements for a hazardous location, including covered
light fixtures to avoid sparks upon failure or damage to lights.
      H.   Locations shall maintain a 48-inch clear aisles between consumer
fireworks display shelves.
      I.   Locations shall maintain two approved exits for egress during an
emergency. All approved exits shall be clearly marked with signage; except
that, exit signs shall be illuminated in permanent structures.
      J.   Consumer fireworks sales shall only be permitted in a single story
at grade building or structure to facilitate easy exiting during an emergency.
      K.   Locations shall have a minimum of two 10 pound ABC rated fire
extinguishers mounted in accordance with NFPA 10. Additional fire extinguishers
shall be placed in locations to prevent travel distance exceeding 75 feet in
order to reach a fire extinguisher.
      L.   All doors used as service doors outside the view of a clerk shall be
locked to prevent unauthorized persons from entering the building unnoticed. If
doors are approved exit doors as part of the two approved exits needed, they
shall be operable without special tools, keys, or knowledge. Delayed or alarmed
egress doors are permitted so long as release is activated within eight
seconds.
      M.   No persons under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or narcotics,
shall be allowed to remain in the business where consumer fireworks are sold as
a primary business.
      N.   No more than one conex container or approved explosive magazine
shall be located on site for short-term storage of extra product. All
containers shall be properly placarded and equipped with tamper proof locking
devices. It is permitted to place containers in a security fenced area.
      O.   Individual consumer fireworks devices or opened consumer fireworks
packages shall not be permitted to be displayed. No open fuses shall be exposed
during storage inside a sales location.
      P.   Consumer fireworks sales shall only be allowed in areas zoned for
commercial use.
      Q.   Any person engaged in consumer firework sales in any other zone
other than commercial zoned areas shall not be approved for sales within the
City limits.
      R.   No person shall sell a DOT 1.4 class consumer firework to a person
under the age of 18.
      S.   Consumer fireworks shall not be sold to an intoxicated person or to
any person whom a reasonable person would believe may be impaired by other
substances.
   5.   Fireworks - Discharging General Requirements.
      A.   No person under the age of 18 shall discharge a DOT 1.4 class
consumer firework without parental supervision.
      B.   A person shall only discharge a consumer fireworks device on real
property they own or on property where consent has been given. Novelties,
including snakes, sparklers, or caps, can be discharged on a public place so
long as all trash, wrappers, and wires are properly disposed of.
      C.   Consumer fireworks shall not be discharged by persons showing
visible signs of, or determined to be, intoxicated or under the influence of a
drug or narcotic.
      D.   Any person discharging a consumer fireworks device assumes all
responsibility for its operation and the consequences thereof. No person shall
discharge a consumer fireworks device in a reckless manner or manner likely to
cause death, injury, fire, or property damage.
      E.   No person shall discharge a consumer fireworks device outside the
following dates and hours:
         (1)   June 1 through July 8 from the hours of 9:00 a.m. until 10:00
p.m. Exception: discharge hours are extended to 11:00 p.m. on July 4 only.
         (2)   December 10 through January 3 from the hours of 9:00 a.m. until
10:00 p.m. Exception: discharge hours are extended to 12:30 a.m. on January 1.
      F.   It is unlawful to alter, remove, or discharge components of a
consumer fireworks device from its intended method of discharging.
      G.   Sky lantern open flame devices are not permitted to be released
within the city limits, except if tethered by a retrievable rope so long as the
person discharging has control over the sky lantern.
      H.   The City may, upon application in writing, grant a permit for the
display of display fireworks on public property by a City agency, fair
associations, amusement parks and other organizations or groups of individuals
approved by City authorities when such display fireworks display will be
handled by a competent operator. No permit shall be granted hereunder unless
the operator or sponsoring organization has filed with the City evidence of
insurance in the following amounts:
         (1)   Personal Injury: $250,000 per person.
         (2)   Property Damage: $50,000.
         (3)   Total Exposure: $1,000,000.
   6.   Violations.  All violations of any provisions of this section are
hereby declared simple misdemeanors Violations of this section shall be
reported to the State Fire Marshal.
   7.   Exceptions.  This section does not prohibit the sale by a resident,
dealer, manufacturer or jobber of such fireworks that are not prohibited; or
the sale of any kind of fireworks if they are to be shipped out of State; or
the sale or use of blank cartridges for a show or theater, or for signal
purposes in athletic sports or by railroads or trucks for signal purposes, or
by a recognized military organization. This section does not apply to any
substance or composition prepared and sold for medicinal or fumigation
purposes.
CHAPTER 42
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 
42.01 Trespassing                       42.05 Fraud
42.02 Criminal Mischief                 42.06 Theft
42.03 Defacing Proclamations or Notices 42.07 Camping
42.04 Unauthorized Entry                42.08 Other Public Property Offenses
 
42.01 TRESPASSING.
   1.   Prohibited. It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the
property of another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.8)
   2.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[1])
      A.   “Property” includes any land, dwelling, building, conveyance,
vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure, whether publicly or
privately owned.
      B.   “Public utility” is a public utility as defined in Section 476.1 of
the Code of Iowa or an electric transmission line as provided in Chapter 478 of
the Code of Iowa.
      C.   “Public utility property” means any land, dwelling, building,
conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased,
or operated by a public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical
barrier of any kind.
      D.   “Railway corporation” means a corporation, company, or person
owning, leasing, or operating any railroad in whole or in part within this
State.
      E.   “Railway property” means all tangible real and personal property
owned, leased, or operated by a railway corporation, with the exception of any
administrative building or offices of the railway corporation.
      F.   “Trespass” means one or more of the following acts:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2a])
         (1)   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of
the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense or to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate.
         (2)   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any peace officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to supervise
the use or maintenance of the property.
         (3)   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect
of unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
         (4)   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing
therefrom, altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein
anything animate or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the
owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession.
         (5)   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property. This paragraph does not apply to passage over
a railroad right-of-way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct, bridge,
trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not been
notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right-of-way or to
vacate the right-of-way and the passage over the right-of-way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
         (6)   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without
lawful authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns,
leases, or operates the public utility property. This paragraph does not apply
to passage over public utility right-of-way by a person if the person has not
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering onto the right-of-way or to vacate the right-of-way.
   3.   Specific Exceptions. “Trespass” does not mean either of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2b])
      A.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another, provided that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property.
This paragraph does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
      B.   Entering upon the right-of-way of a public road or highway.
42.02 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter, or destroy property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.03 DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
   It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down,
or destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of
the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or by
order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.04 UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
   No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises, or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises or grounds are closed and not open to the public. When open
to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also constitutes an
unauthorized entry.
42.05 FRAUD.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice as defined in
Section 714.8 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.8)
42.06 THEFT.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit theft as defined in Section 714.1 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
42.07 CAMPING.
   1.   No person shall camp in any portion of a park except in portions
prescribed or designated by the Council, and the City may refuse camping
privileges or rescind any and all camping privileges for cause.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person to occupy a tent, car/truck/SUV tent,
travel trailer, fifth wheel, toy hauler, pop-up, truck camper or Class A, B, or
C recreational vehicle or other enclosure on private and/or public property
except as specified hereinafter:
      A.   Public Property. No tent, car/truck/SUV tents, travel trailer, fifth
wheel, toy hauler, pop-up, truck camper or Class A, B, or C recreational
vehicle shall be occupied on public streets, alleys, highways or other public
property within the corporate limits of the City except by special permission
of the City Council.
      B.   Private Property. Occupying a tent, car/truck/SUV tents, travel
trailer, fifth wheel, toy hauler, pop-up, truck camper or Class A, B, or C
recreational vehicle is permissible on a temporary basis for a period not to
exceed four days in any one period.
42.08 OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.
   The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other activities or conditions that are also deemed
to be public property offenses:
   1.   Chapter 21 – Library
      A.   Section
21.10 – Injury to Books or Property
      B.   Section
21.11 – Theft of Library Property
   2.   Chapter 105 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling
      A.   Section
105.07 – Littering Prohibited
   3.   Chapter 135 – Street Use and Maintenance
      A.   Section
135.01 – Removal of Warning Devices
      B.   Section
135.02 – Obstructing or Defacing
      C.   Section
135.03 – Placing Debris On
      D.   Section
135.04 – Playing In
      E.   Section
135.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
      F.   Section
135.08 – Burning Prohibited
      G.   Section
135.12 – Dumping of Snow
   4.   Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations
      A.   Section
136.11 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements
      B.   Section
136.15 – Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
      C.   Section
136.16 – Defacing
      D.   Section
136.17 – Debris on Sidewalks
      E.   Section
136.18 – Merchandise Display
      F.   Section
136.19 – Sales Stands
CHAPTER 43
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
 
43.01 Purpose                      43.05 Possession of Drug Paraphernalia
43.02 Controlled Substance Defined 43.06 Manufacture, Delivery, or Offering For
                                   Sale
43.03 Drug Paraphernalia Defined   43.07 Penalties
43.04 Determining Factors
 
43.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit the use, possession with intent
to use, manufacture, and delivery of drug paraphernalia as defined herein.
43.02 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE DEFINED.
   The term “controlled substance” as used in this chapter is defined as the
term “controlled substance” is defined in the Uniform Controlled Substance Act,
Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa, as it now exists or is hereafter amended.
43.03 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA DEFINED.
   The term “drug paraphernalia” as used in this chapter means all equipment,
products, and materials of any kind which are used, intended for use, or
designed for use, in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, concealing, containing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body a
controlled substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled Substances Act,
Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa. It includes, but is not limited to:
   1.   Growing Kits. Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of
plant which is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can
be derived.
   2.   Processing Kits. Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing
controlled substances.
   3.   Isomerization Devices. Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or
designed for use in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a
controlled substance.
   4.   Testing Equipment. Testing equipment used, intended for use, or
designed for use in identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or
purity of controlled substances.
   5.   Scales. Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use
in weighing or measuring controlled substances.
   6.   Diluents. Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose, or lactose, used, intended for use, or designed
for use in cutting controlled substances.
   7.   Separators; Sifters. Separation gins and sifters used, intended for
use, or designed for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise
cleaning or refining marijuana.
   8.   Mixing Devices. Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, and mixing devices
used, intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled
substances.
   9.   Containers. Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used,
intended for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances.
   10.   Storage Containers. Containers and other objects used, intended for
use, or designed for use in storing or concealing controlled substances.
   11.   Injecting Devices. Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects
used, intended for use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting
controlled substances into the human body.
   12.   Ingesting-Inhaling Device. Objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing heroin, marijuana,
cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the human body, such as:
      A.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes with
or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal bowls;
      B.   Water pipes;
      C.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
      D.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
      E.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning materials, such as
a marijuana cigarette that has become too small or too short to be held in the
hand;
      F.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
      G.   Chamber pipes;
      H.   Carburetor pipes;
      I.   Electric pipes;
      J.   Air driven pipes;
      K.   Chillums;
      L.   Bongs;
      M.   Ice pipes or chillers.
43.04 DETERMINING FACTORS.
   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia for the purpose of
enforcing this chapter, the following factors should be considered in addition
to all other logically relevant factors:
   1.   Statements. Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the
object concerning its use.
   2.   Prior Convictions. Prior convictions, if any, of an owner or of anyone
in control of the object under any State or federal law relating to any
controlled substance.
   3.   Proximity to Violation. The proximity of the object, in time and space,
to a direct violation of the Uniform Controlled Substance Act, Chapter 124 of
the Code of Iowa.
   4.   Proximity to Substances. The proximity of the object to controlled
substances.
   5.   Residue. The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object.
   6.   Evidence of Intent. Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of
an owner or of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom
he or she knows, or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to
facilitate a violation of the Uniform Controlled Substances Act, Chapter 124 of
the Code of Iowa.
   7.   Innocence of an Owner. The innocence of an owner, or of anyone in
control of the object, as to a direct violation of the Uniform Controlled
Substances Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa, should not prevent a finding
that the object is intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   8.   Instructions. Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use.
   9.   Descriptive Materials. Descriptive materials accompanying the object
explaining or depicting its use.
   10.   Advertising. National and local advertising concerning its use.
   11.   Displayed. The manner in which the object is displayed for sale.
   12.   Licensed Distributor or Dealer. Whether the owner, or anyone in
control of the object, is a legitimate supplier of like or related items to the
community, such as a licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products.
   13.   Sales Ratios. Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales
of the object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise.
   14.   Legitimate Uses. The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the
object in the community.
   15.   Expert Testimony. Expert testimony concerning its use.
43.05 POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to use, drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into
the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled
Substance Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa.
43.06 MANUFACTURE, DELIVERY, OR OFFERING FOR SALE.
   It is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with intent to deliver,
manufacture with intent to deliver, or offer for sale drug paraphernalia,
intending that the drug paraphernalia will be used, or knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know that it will be used, or knowing
that it is designed for use to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Uniform
Controlled Substances Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa.
43.07 PENALTIES.
   1.   Violations of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a simple
misdemeanor.
   2.   In addition to or in the alternative to the provisions of subsection 1,
the City or an interested person may institute civil proceedings to obtain
injunctive and declaratory relief or such other orders of the court as are
reasonable and proper to abate practices, conditions or circumstances found to
be contrary to or prohibited by the provisions of this chapter.
CHAPTER 45
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION
 
45.01 Persons Under Legal Age 45.03 Open Containers in Motor Vehicles
45.02 Public Consumption or   45.04 Social Host
Intoxication
 
45.01 PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
   As used in this section, “legal age” means 21 years of age or more.  
   1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase, consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic beverages in their
possession or control; except in the case of any alcoholic beverage given or
dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence, and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages during the regular course of the
person’s employment by a retail alcohol licensee, or wine or beer permittee
under State laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[3])
   2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age for
the purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage from
any retail alcohol licensee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[3])
(Section 45.01 – Ord. 457 – Oct. 22 Supp.)
45.02 PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.
   1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
      A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the Code of
Iowa and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of the Code of
Iowa.
      B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath, or urine
to determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person using
devices and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
      C.   “Peace officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
      D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion of a
public or private school that provides teaching for any grade from kindergarten
through grade twelve.
   2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer upon
the public streets or highways. A person shall not use or consume alcoholic
liquor in any public place, except premises covered by a retail alcohol
license. A person shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine, or beer
on public school property or while attending any public or private school-
related function. A person shall not be intoxicated in a public place.    
(Ord. 457 – Oct. 22 Supp.)
   3.   A person shall not simulate intoxication in a public place.
   4.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public
intoxication under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person that
the person may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own expense.
If a device approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for testing a sample
of a person’s breath to determine the person’s blood alcohol concentration is
available, that is the only test that need be offered the person arrested. In a
prosecution for public intoxication, evidence of the results of a chemical test
performed under this subsection is admissible upon proof of a proper
foundation. The percentage of alcohol present in a person’s blood, breath, or
urine established by the results of a chemical test performed within two hours
after the person’s arrest on a charge of public intoxication is presumed to be
the percentage of alcohol present at the time of arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)
45.03 OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
[See Section
62.01(49) and (50) of this Code of Ordinances.]
45.04 SOCIAL HOST.
   A person who is the owner or lessee of, or who otherwise has control over,
property that is not a licensed premises shall not knowingly permit any person,
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the person to be under the age of
eighteen, to consume or possess on such property any alcoholic beverage. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a landlord or manager of the
property or to a person under legal age who consumes or possesses any alcoholic
beverage in connection with a religious observance, ceremony, or rite.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47)
CHAPTER 46
MINORS
 
46.01 Curfew                      46.04 Minors in Taverns
46.02 Cigarettes and Tobacco      46.05 Minors in Billiard Rooms
46.03 Contributing to Delinquency  
46.01 CURFEW.
   The Council has determined that a curfew for minors is necessary to promote
the public health, safety, morals and general welfare of the City and
specifically to reinforce the primary authority and responsibility of adults
responsible for minors; to protect the public from the illegal acts of minors
committed after the curfew hour; and to protect minors from improper influences
and criminal activity that prevail in public places after the curfew hour.
   1.   Definitions. For use in this section, the following terms are defined:
      A.   “Emergency errand” means, but is not limited to, an errand relating
to a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any other situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious illness, bodily injury, or loss
of life.
      B.   “Knowingly” means knowledge that a responsible adult should
reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that
responsible adult’s custody. It is intended to continue to hold the neglectful
or careless adult responsible for a minor to a reasonable standard of adult
responsibility through an objective test. It is therefore no defense that an
adult responsible for a minor was completely indifferent to the activities or
conduct or whereabouts of the minor.
      C.   “Minor” means any unemancipated person under the age of 18 years.
      D.   “Nonsecured custody” means custody in an unlocked multipurpose area,
such as a lobby, office or interrogation room that is not designed, set aside,
or used as a secure detention area, and the person arrested is not physically
secured during the period of custody in the area; the person is physically
accompanied by a law enforcement officer or a person employed by the facility
where the person arrested is being held; and the use of the area is limited to
providing nonsecured custody only while awaiting transfer to an appropriate
juvenile facility or to court, for contacting of and release to the person’s
parents or other responsible adult or for other administrative purposes; but
not for longer than six hours without the oral or written order of a judge or
magistrate authorizing the detention. A judge shall not extend the period of
time in excess of six hours beyond the initial six-hour period.
      E.   “Public place” includes stores, parking lots, parks, playgrounds,
streets, alleys, and sidewalks dedicated to public use and also includes such
parts of buildings and other premises, whether publicly or privately owned,
that are used by the general public or to which the general public is invited
commercially for a fee or otherwise; or in or on which the general public is
permitted without specific invitation; or to which the general public has
access. For purposes of this section, a vehicle or other conveyance is
considered to be a public place when in the areas defined above.
      F.   “Responsible adult” means a parent, guardian or other adult
specifically authorized by law or authorized by a parent or guardian to have
custody or control of a minor.
   2.   Curfew Established. It is unlawful for any minor to be or remain upon
any of the alleys, streets or public places or to be in places of business and
amusement in the City between the hours of 11:00 p.m. on any night prior to a
day that school is in session and 5:00 a.m. of the following day or otherwise
between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m.
   3.   Exceptions. The following are exceptions to the curfew:
      A.   The minor is accompanied by a responsible adult.
      B.   The minor is on the sidewalk or property where the minor resides or
on either side of the place where the minor resides and the adult responsible
for the minor has given permission for the minor to be there.
      C.   The minor is present at or is traveling between home and one of the
following:
         (1)   Minor’s place of employment in a business, trade or occupation
in which the minor is permitted by law to be engaged or, if traveling, within
one hour after the end or before the beginning of work;
         (2)   Minor’s place of religious activity or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end or before the beginning of the religious activity;
         (3)   Governmental or political activity or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end or before the beginning of the activity;
         (4)   School activity or, if traveling, within one hour after the end
or before the beginning of the activity;
         (5)   Assembly such as a march, protest, demonstration, sit-in or
meeting of an association for the advancement of economic, political, religious
or cultural matters, or for any other activity protected by the First Amendment
of the U.S. Constitution guarantees of free exercise of religion, freedom of
speech, freedom of assembly or, if traveling, within one hour after the end or
before the beginning of the activity.
      D.   The minor is on an emergency errand for a responsible adult;
      E.   The minor is engaged in interstate travel through the City
beginning, ending or passing through the City when such travel is by direct
route.
   4.   Responsibility of Adults. It is unlawful for any responsible adult
knowingly to permit or to allow a minor to be in any public place in the City
within the time periods prohibited by this section unless the minor’s presence
falls within one of the above exceptions.
   5.   Enforcement Procedures.
      A.   Determination of Age. In determining the age of the juvenile and in
the absence of convincing evidence such as a birth certificate or driver’s
license, a law enforcement officer on the street shall, in the first instance,
use his or her best judgment in determining age.
      B.   Grounds for Arrest; Conditions of Custody. Grounds for arrest are
that the person refuses to sign the citation without qualification; persists in
violating the ordinance; refuses to provide proper identification or to
identify himself or herself; or constitutes an immediate threat to the person’s
own safety or to the safety of the public. A law enforcement officer who
arrests a minor for a curfew violation may keep the minor in custody either in
a shelter care facility or in any nonsecured setting. The officer shall not
place bodily restraints, such as handcuffs, on the minor unless the minor
physically resists or threatens physical violence when being taken into
custody. A minor shall not be placed in detention following a curfew violation.
      C.   Notification of Responsible Adult. After a minor is taken into
custody, the law enforcement officer shall notify the adult responsible for the
minor as soon as possible. The minor shall be released to the adult responsible
for the minor upon the promise of such person to produce the child in court at
such time as the court may direct.
      D.   Minor Without Adult Supervision. If a law enforcement officer
determines that a minor does not have adult supervision because the law
enforcement officer cannot locate the minor’s parent, guardian or other person
legally responsible for the care of the minor, within a reasonable time, the
law enforcement officer shall attempt to place the minor with an adult relative
of the minor, an adult person who cares for the child or another adult person
who is known to the child.
   6.   Penalties.
      A.   Responsible Adult’s First Violation. In the case of a first
violation by a minor, the law enforcement officer shall, by certified mail,
send to the adult responsible for the minor, written notice of the violation
with a warning that any subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of
the curfew ordinance against both the responsible adult and minor, with
applicable penalties.
      B.   Responsible Adult’s Second Violation. Any responsible adult as
defined in this section who, following receipt of a warning, knowingly allows
the minor to violate any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
municipal infraction.
      C.   Minor’s First Violation. In the case of a first violation by a
minor, the law enforcement officer shall give the minor a written warning,
which states that any subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of
the curfew ordinance against the responsible adult and the minor, with
applicable penalties, or, at the law enforcement officer’s discretion, may
issue the minor a citation for a first violation.
      D.   Minor’s Second Violation. For the minor’s second and subsequent
violations of any of the provisions of this section, the minor is guilty of a
municipal infraction.
46.02 CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO.
   It is unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to smoke, use, possess,
purchase, or attempt to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes. Possession of tobacco,
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes
by an individual under 21 years of age shall not constitute a violation of this
section if the individual under 21 years of age possesses the tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes as part
of the person’s employment and said person is employed by a person who holds a
valid permit under Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or who lawfully offers for
sale or sells cigarettes or tobacco products.
(Ord. 450 - Apr. 21 Supp.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2)
46.03 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY.
   It is unlawful for any person to encourage any child under 18 years of age
to commit any act of delinquency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 709A.1)
46.04 MINORS IN TAVERNS.
   It is unlawful for any person under legal age to enter, remain in or
frequent a business establishment holding a retail alcohol license unless over
50 percent of the dollar volume of the business establishment comes from the
sale and serving of prepared foods. This section does not apply to holders of a
Class “B” retail alcohol license or an establishment employee when employed in
compliance with State law.
(Section 46.04 – Ord. 463 – Apr. 24 Supp.)
46.05 MINORS IN BILLIARD ROOMS.
   It is unlawful for any person who keeps a billiard hall where beer, liquor
or wine is sold, or the agent, clerk or employee of any such person, or any
person having charge or control of any such hall, to permit any minor to remain
in such hall or to take part in any of the games known as billiards or pool.
CHAPTER 47
NOISE CONTROL
 
47.01 Purpose                      47.05 Sounds Not Allowed
47.02 Scope of Regulations         47.06 Exceptions
47.03 Definitions                  47.07 Other Laws and Ordinances
47.04 Noise Disturbance Prohibited
 
47.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for the control of
noise pollution in the City, thereby protecting the public’s health, safety,
and general welfare.
47.02 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   This chapter applies to the control of all noise originating within the
limits of the City, except in the following cases:
   1.   A State or federal agency has adopted a standard or rule different from
those prescribed within this chapter and which preempts the regulation of noise
from a particular source so as to render this chapter inapplicable; or
   2.   The City Council may grant a variance by reason of public acceptance of
the activity producing a particular noise or noises, such noise is deemed
acceptable to community.
47.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context clearly indicates a
different intention, the following terms have the following meanings.
Definitions of technical terms used in this chapter which are not herein
defined shall be obtained from publications of acoustical terminology issued by
the American National Standards Institute (ANSI):
   1.   “Application” means the application submitted to the City requesting an
outside services permit.
   2.   “Emergency” means any occurrence or set of circumstances involving
actual or imminent physical or psychological trauma or property damage which
demands immediate action.
   3.   “Emergency work” means any work performed for the purpose of
alleviating or resolving an emergency.
   4.   “Noise” means any sound which disturbs humans or which causes or tends
to cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
   5.   “Noise disturbance” means any of those sounds defined as “sounds not
allowed” in Section
47.05 of this chapter.
   6.   “Plainly audible” means any sound that can be detected by a person
using his or her unaided hearing faculties, including (but not limited to) the
understanding of spoken speech, comprehension of whether a voice is raised or
normal, or comprehension of musical rhythms. The detection of the rhythmic bass
component of the music is sufficient to constitute a plainly audible sound.
   7.   “Powered model vehicle” means any self-propelled, airborne, waterborne,
or land borne model plane, vessel, or vehicle which is not designed to carry
persons, including (but not limited to) any model airplane, boat, car, or
rocket.
   8.   “Real property boundary” means any imaginary line along the ground
surface, and its vertical extension, which separates the real property owned by
one person from that owned by another person, but not including intra-building
real property division.
   9.   “Recreational vehicle” means any motor-powered vehicle designed to
carry at least one passenger or driver and equipped for use in racing or other
recreational events or uses off of public right-of-way on public or private
property; however, for the purposes of this chapter, any such vehicle which is
licensed for use on the public highways is deemed a motor vehicle (or
motorcycle if two- or three-wheeled) and not a recreational vehicle. (Examples
of recreational vehicles are snowmobiles, mini-bikes, stockcars, four wheelers,
and motorboats.)
   10.   “Residential property” means any property on which is located a
building or structure used wholly or partially for living or sleeping purposes.
   11.   “Sound” means an oscillation in pressure, particle displacement,
particle velocity or other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces
that cause compression and rarefaction of that medium. The description of sound
may include any characteristic of such sound, including duration, intensity,
and frequency.
   12.   “Sound equipment” means any radio, record player, tape deck or player,
loud speaker, amplifier, sound track, or other device for producing,
reproducing, or amplifying sound; however, “sound equipment” does not include
sirens and other equipment used to alert persons to the existence of an
emergency; equipment used by law enforcement and other public safety officials
in the performance of their official duties, church carillons, bells or chimes,
mobile radio or telephone signaling devices, and automobile and truck radios,
tape decks, or players or other such standard equipment used and intended for
the use and enjoyment of the occupants, provided that the sound emitted
therefrom is not audible for more than 50 feet from such automobile or truck.
47.04 NOISE DISTURBANCE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully make, continue, cause, or allow
any noise disturbance within the City.
47.05 SOUNDS NOT ALLOWED.
   The term “noise disturbance” means any of the following sounds:
   1.   Alarm Testing. The sound emitted by the intentional sounding outdoors
of any privately owned fire alarm, burglar alarm, siren, whistle, or similar
stationary emergency signaling device for the essential testing of such device,
when conducted between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   2.   Automobile Radios. The sound emitted by an automobile or truck radio,
tape deck, or compact disk player, or other such standard equipment used and
intended for the use and enjoyment of such vehicle’s occupants while such
vehicle is on the public right-of-way if the sound emitted there from is
audible for more than 50 feet.
   3.   Chain Saws. The sound emitted by motor-powered chain saws, tree
trimming equipment and weed cutters, when operated between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   4.   Construction Noise. The sound made by privately owned and operated
tools or equipment in erection, demolition, excavation, drilling, or other such
construction work which is received between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. Sunday through Thursday or between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. Friday and
Saturday.
   5.   Engine Brakes and Compression Brakes. The sound made by an engine brake
device, compression brake, or a mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in
the braking or deceleration of any vehicle, at all times.
   6.   Engine Repairs and Testing. The sound made by the repairing,
rebuilding, modifying, or testing a motor vehicle or recreational vehicle which
is received between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   7.   Lawn and Garden Equipment. The sound emitted by motor-powered, muffler-
equipped lawn and garden equipment operated between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m.
   8.   Loading and Unloading. The sound made by outdoor loading, unloading,
opening, closing, or handling of boxes, crates, containers, building materials,
trash cans, containers, receptacles, and/or dumpsters between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   9.   Musical Instruments. The sound made by a drum, horn, reed and/or string
instrument, or other musical instrument or device which is played between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday or from 12:00
midnight to 7:00 a.m. Friday and Saturday.
   10.   Noisy Exhaust System. The sound made by a motor vehicle or a
recreational vehicle whose exhaust system is defective or has been modified by
the installation of a muffler cutout or bypass.
   11.   Off-Road Motorcycle and Recreational Vehicle Noise. The sound made on
private or City-owned property other than a public right-of-way by a motorcycle
or recreational vehicle and received between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. Sunday through Thursday; 12:00 p.m. midnight and 7:00 a.m. Friday and
Saturday, provided; however, the sound made by a motorcycle when traveling from
private property to a public right-of-way, or vice versa, in pursuance of
normal ingress or egress for purposeful transportation is not a noise
disturbance unless made so by some provisions of this section.
   12.   Powered Model Vehicles. The sound made by the operation of a powered
model vehicle which is received between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Sunday through Thursday or from 12:00 midnight to 7:00 a.m. Friday and
Saturday.
   13.   Racing. The sound made by a motor vehicle or recreational vehicle on
private property or public right-of-way during any racing event or time trial,
whether organized or unorganized, at all times.
   14.   Screeching Tires. The sound made by the intentional screeching or
squealing of the tires of a motor vehicle, at all times.
   15.   Selling by Hawking or Barking. The sound of selling by shout or outcry
when made within the area of the City zoned residential or commercial, at all
times.
   16.   Sound Equipment. The sound made by sound equipment, as defined in
Section
47.03(12), operated upon the public right-of-way, or in any building, or upon
any public or private premises, if plainly audible for more than 100 feet from
the real property boundary, at all times unless the operator has an outdoor
services permit. Any commercial business that regularly uses, operates, or
causes to be used or operated sound equipment, must close its doors to abate
the sound at any time, unless such business has an outdoor services permit or
meets the limitations specified in Section
47.06 of this chapter, at all times.
47.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to the following:
   1.   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency. This includes public address systems.
   2.   The emission of sound in the performance of emergency work.
   3.   Rail and air transportation and public mass transportation vehicles.
   4.   The emission of sound in the performance of military operations,
exclusive of travel by individuals to or from military duty.
   5.   The emission of sound from activities in the discharge of weapons,
fireworks displays, or parades permitted by the City Council.
   6.   The emission of sound from activities where the State or federal agency
has adopted a different standard or rules than that prescribed within this
chapter.
   7.   The emission of sound during nonprofessional athletic and school events
or practices.
   8.   The emission of sound from on-site stationary trash compactors,
municipal or municipally contracted compacter trucks loading or unloading of
yard waste, recyclable material, trash, and garbage. In cases where the sound
originates within 300 feet of a residential area land use or noise sensitive
land use, the exemption shall only apply between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 10:
00 p.m.
   9.   The emission of sound during the operation, maintenance, repair, and
cleaning of public streets and facilities or other work performed by or for
public utilities.
   10.   Agricultural activities, exclusive of those involving the ownership or
possession of animals or birds.
   11.   The emission of sound by church carillons, bells, or chimes, whether
electronic or manual.
Although exempt from the maximum permissible sound levels of this chapter, an
outdoor services permit is required in all cases where sound equipment and
sound amplifying equipment will be used.
47.07 OTHER LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   No provisions of this chapter should be construed to legalize or permit
sounds, devices or activities made unlawful by other ordinances of the City or
State or Federal statutes.
CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
 
50.01 Definition of Nuisance 50.05 Nuisance Abatement
50.02 Nuisances Enumerated   50.06 Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice
50.03 Other Conditions       50.07 Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure
50.04 Nuisances Prohibited   50.08 Adult Establishments
50.01 DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.
   Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is a
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
50.02 NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions that are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)
   1.   Offensive Smells. Erecting, continuing, or using any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture that, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort, or property
of individuals or the public.
   2.   Filth or Noisome Substance. Causing or suffering any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of
others.
   3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River. Obstructing or impeding without
legal authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or collection of
water.
   4.   Water Pollution. Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the
water of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its
natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.
   5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways. Obstructing or encumbering, by
fences, buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places, or burying grounds.
   6.   Billboards. Billboards, signboards, and advertising signs, whether
erected and constructed on public or private property, that so obstruct and
impair the view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway,
boulevard or alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render
dangerous the use thereof. (See also Section
62.06) 
   7.   Storing of Flammable Junk. Depositing or storing of flammable junk,
such as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones and paper, by dealers in such
articles within the fire limits of the City, unless in a building of fireproof
construction. (See also
Chapter 51) 
   8.   Debris, Refuse, Rubbish and Trash. Accumulations of unused boards,
bricks, concrete or rocks, animal or vegetable products or matter, appliances,
ashes, barrels, bones, bottles, boxes, broken glass, brush, cans, cartons,
cinders, coal, crates, decayed fruits or vegetables, dirt, dust, excrement,
fence wire, filth, firewood not piled or stacked neatly and systematically
(must be in rear yard), flammable materials, foliage and shrub clippings or
cuttings, garbage, gasoline, grass, household furniture, iron or other metals,
junk, kegs, leaves, logs, lumber not piled or stacked neatly and systematically
(must have nails removed and be in rear yard; untreated lumber must be
stacked), lumber scraps, manure, nails, offal, oil, old wearing apparel, paint,
paper, piled brush and fallen tree limbs or debris, plaster, plastic (discarded
containers or wrappers), plumbing figures, putrid fish or meat entrails, rags,
rank growth of vegetation, roof shingles, rubber, sawdust, slag, slop, soot,
straw, sweepings, tacks, tarpaulin not in good repair, tires (mounted or
unmounted), toilets, tubs, vehicle parts, weeds, wire, wood or metal shavings,
any type of solid or yard waste (bagged or unbagged), or any condition or item
that would prohibit the routine maintenance of the property.
   9.   Air Pollution. Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes, or fly ash.
   10.   Weeds, Brush. All weeds, grasses and non-agricultural plants which are
seven inches or more in height or any other rank growth of vegetation that may
be injurious to health by releasing particulate matter into the atmosphere or
by other means, or which are considered noxious.
   11.   Dutch Elm Disease. Trees infected with Dutch elm disease. (See also
Chapter 151)
   12.   Airport Air Space. Any object or structure hereafter erected within
1,000 feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or
landing place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation including take-
off and landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use or
enjoyment of the land on which the same is located.
   13.   Houses of Ill Fame. Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the Code
of Iowa or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or houses
where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting or breaches of the peace are carried on
or permitted to the disturbance of others.
   14.   Diseased or Breeding Insects or Vermin. Any condition or item which
harbors or fosters the spread of disease or breeding of insects or vermin.
   15.   Excessive Exterior Lighting. Directing, arranging or using exterior
lighting from any property or area so that the light shines or glares on
another property, thereby adversely affecting the use and enjoyment of those
persons who own or use the property.
   16.   Furniture Outdoors. Any furniture, including sofas, divans, recliners
and similar objects which are not designed for outdoor use but which are
maintained or located on any porch, lawn, parking lot, driveway or public
right-of-way.
50.03 OTHER CONDITIONS.
   The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other conditions that are deemed to be nuisances:
   1.   Junk and Junk Vehicles (See Chapter 51)
   2.   Dangerous Buildings (See Chapter 145)
   3.   Storage and Disposal of Solid Waste (See Chapter 105)
   4.   Trees (See Chapter 151)
50.04 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance,
public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter or
State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)
50.05 NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section
50.06 of this chapter or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in
Section
50.07. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
50.06 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.
   Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner. The notice to abate shall
contain: † 4   
      A.   Description of Nuisance. A description of what constitutes the
nuisance.
      B.   Location of Nuisance. The location of the nuisance.
      C.   Acts Necessary to Abate. A statement of the act or acts necessary to
abate the nuisance.
      D.   Reasonable Time. A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
      E.   Assessment of City Costs. A statement that if the nuisance or
condition is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within
the time prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against the
property owner.
   2.   Method of Service. The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or
sent by certified mail to the property owner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   3.   Request for Hearing. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for a
hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Clerk within the time
stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance
exists and it must be abated as ordered. The hearing will be before the Council
at a time and place fixed by the Council. The findings of the Council shall be
conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated
within a reasonable time under the circumstances.
   4.   Abatement in Emergency. If it is determined that an emergency exists by
reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the City may
perform any action that may be required under this chapter without prior
notice. The City shall assess the costs as provided in Subsection 6 of this
section after notice to the property owner under the applicable provisions of
Subsections 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in Subsection 3.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   5.   Abatement by City. If the person notified to abate a nuisance or
condition neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the
required action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred.
The itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall pay such
expenses on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   6.   Collection of Costs. The Clerk shall send a statement of the total
expense incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has failed to
abide by the notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not
been paid within one month, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the County
Treasurer and such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same manner
as, general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement. If the amount expended to
abate the nuisance or condition exceeds $500.00, the City may permit the
assessment to be paid in up to 10 annual installments, to be paid in the same
manner and with the same interest rates provided for assessments against
benefited property under State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)
   8.   Failure to Abate. Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who
shall fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time
required and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: A suggested form of notice for the abatement of nuisances is
  included in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use
  of this administrative abatement procedure, particularly where cost of abatement
4 is more than minimal or where there is doubt as to whether or not a nuisance does
  in fact exist. If compliance is not secured following notice and hearings, we
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before proceeding with
  abatement and assessment of costs. Your attorney may recommend proceedings in
  court under Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa rather than this procedure.
50.07 MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section
50.06, the requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures
applicable to municipal infractions as set forth in
Chapter 4 of this Code of Ordinances.
50.08   ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS.
   1.   As used in this section, “adult establishment” means any business that
provides nude or topless dancing or operates any other adult-oriented business.
   2.   A public safety nuisance exists when it is established by clear and
convincing evidence that an owner, manager, employee, contemporaneous patron,
or guest of an adult establishment commits any of the following acts either on
the premises or in any parking lots or areas, including but not limited to
public rights-of-way, adjacent to the premises:
      A.   Unlawfully discharges a firearm or uses an offensive weapon, as
defined in Section 724.1 of the Code of Iowa, regardless of whether it inflicts
injury or death.
      B.   Assaults another person with a dangerous weapon as defined in
Section 702.7 of the Code of Iowa resulting in injury or death.
      C.   Engages in a riot as defined in Section 723.1 of the Code of Iowa on
three or more dates within a 12-month period to which the police respond and
disperse a crowd. The participants need not be the same persons for each
incident.
   3.   When the City Attorney believes a serious threat to the public safety
exists, the City Attorney or any other attorney on behalf of the City Attorney,
may file a suit in equity in the district court without bond seeking abatement
of the public safety nuisance arising from an adult establishment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.12)
(Section 50.08 – Ord. 469 – Mar. 25 Supp.)
 
CHAPTER 51
JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES
 
51.01 Definitions                       51.04 Exceptions
51.02 Junk and Junk Vehicles Prohibited 51.05 Notice to Abate
51.03 Junk and Junk Vehicles a Nuisance
 
51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles, machinery
and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery or appliances; iron, steel
or other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass, tinware,
plastic or old or discarded household goods or hardware. Neatly stacked
firewood located on a side yard or a rear yard is not considered junk.
   2.   “Junk vehicle” means any vehicle legally placed in storage with the
County Treasurer or unlicensed or which has of the following characteristics:
      A.   Broken Glass. Any vehicle with a broken or cracked windshield,
window, headlight or tail light, or any other cracked or broken glass.
      B.   Broken, Loose, or Missing Part. Any vehicle with a broken, loose, or
missing fender, door, bumper, hood, steering wheel or trunk lid.
      C.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects. Any vehicle that has become
the habitat for rats, mice, snakes, or any other vermin or insects.
      D.   Flammable Fuel. Any vehicle that contains gasoline or any other
flammable fuel.
      E.   Inoperable. Any motor vehicle that lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural parts, rendering said motor vehicle totally
inoperable, or that cannot be moved under its own power or has not been used as
an operating vehicle for a period of 30 days or more.
      F.   Defective or Obsolete Condition. Any other vehicle that, because of
its defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat to
the public health and safety.
Mere licensing of such vehicle shall not constitute a defense to the finding
that the vehicle is a junk vehicle.
   3.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, except devices
moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and
includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination thereof.
51.02 JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or allow to remain on
any private property within the corporate limits of the City any junk or junk
vehicle.
51.03 JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES A NUISANCE.
   It is hereby declared that any junk or junk vehicle located upon private
property, unless excepted by Section
51.04, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of the citizens and is a
nuisance within the meaning of Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa. If any junk
or junk vehicle is kept upon private property in violation hereof, the owner of
or person occupying the property upon which it is located shall be prima facie
liable for said violation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
51.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to the following:
   1.   Any junk or junk vehicle stored within a garage or other enclosed
structure.
   2.   Any junk vehicle being used for or prepared for demolition derby use
and being openly stored for the three month period from May 1 to August 1 of
any calendar year, pursuant to a current and valid open storage permit obtained
from the City for each junk vehicle being openly stored based upon this
exception. A permit shall be required for each junk vehicle being openly stored
in this manner. The permit shall substantially comply with the following
requirements:
      A.   The cost of the permit shall be $5.00.
      B.   The permit shall reasonably describe to the extent possible, the
vehicle the permit is assigned to by year of manufacture, make, model, body
type, color and VIN number if available.
      C.   The permit shall contain language notifying the permit holder of the
time period for which the permit is valid, the terms and conditions of the
permit, and any fines or costs associated with noncompliance with this section
of the City code.
      D.   The permit shall contain the signature of the permit holder
indicating the permit holder has read, understands, and consents to the terms
and conditions of the permit.
   3.   Any junk or junk vehicle stored within a concealing fence not less than
six feet in height surrounding the enclosed area that properly screens the junk
or junk vehicle from public view. Such fence shall be kept in a constant state
of repair and no signs or other advertising materials shall be placed upon the
fence. Junk or junk vehicles stored behind the fence shall not exceed the
height of the fence.
Nothing in this chapter shall authorize the maintenance of a public or private
nuisance as defined under provisions of law.
51.05 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Upon discovery of any junk or junk vehicle located upon private property in
violation of Section
51.03, the City shall within five days initiate abatement procedures as
outlined in
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL
55.01 Purpose                         55.13 Motor Vehicle Accidents
55.02 Definitions                     55.14 Killing and Injuring Birds
55.03 Licensing of Animals            55.15 Keeping of Bees
55.04 Injury to Property; Waste       55.16 Dangerous Animals
Accumulation
55.05 Manner of Keeping               55.17 Rabies and Animal Bites
55.06 Animals Running at Large        55.18 Enabling Animals to Leave Premises
                                      of Owner
55.07 Impoundment                     55.19 Animals in Food Establishments
55.08 Barking Dogs and Crying Cats    55.20 Riding Animals on Public Ways
55.09 Number of Dogs and Cats Limited 55.21 Pet Awards Prohibited
55.10 Animal Neglect                  55.22 Tampering With A Rabies Vaccination
                                      Tab
55.11 Livestock Neglect               55.23 Tampering With An Electronic
                                      Handling Device
55.12 Abandonment of Cats and Dogs     
 
55.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote harmonious relationships in the
interaction between man and animal by:
   1.   Protecting animals from improper use, abuse, neglect, exploitation,
inhumane treatment, and health hazards;
   2.   Delineating the animal owner’s or harborer’s responsibility for the
acts and behavior of his or her animal at all times;
   3.   Providing security to residents from annoyance, intimidation, injury,
and health hazards by animals;
   4.   Encouraging responsible pet ownership; and
   5.   Providing standards for any and all persons and agencies, public or
private, engaged in confinement, buying, selling, harboring, or dealing in
animals in any manner whatsoever.
55.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
   1.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium
including but not limited to print, radio, television, sign, display, label,
tag or articulation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   2.   “Animal” means any mammal, domestic or wild, other than man, which may
be affected by rabies.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1)
   3.   “Animal Control Center” means a facility, public or private, used to
confine and house animals seized, lost, abandoned, or given over by owners, as
designated by the City or the Mayor.
   4.   “Animal control officer” means an employee of the City or private
contractor hired by the City, educated in the care, seizure, custody, and
confinement of animals, as appointed and supervised by the Mayor.
   5.   “Animal nuisance” means a nuisance which is created when an animal:
      A.   Runs uncontrolled;
      B.   Molests or disturbs persons or vehicles by chasing, barking or
biting;
      C.   Attacks other animals;
      D.   Damages property other than that of the owner or harborer;
      E.   Barks, whines, howls, honks, brays, cries, or makes other noises
excessively;
      F.   Creates noxious or offensive odors;
      G.   Defecates upon any public place or upon premises not owned or
controlled by the owner or harborer, unless such animal waste is promptly
removed by the animal owner or harborer; or
      H.   Creates an insect breeding and/or attraction site due to an
accumulation of excreta, waste, refuse, or debris related to the harborage of
the animal.
   6.   “Animal shelter” means a facility which is used to house or contain
dogs or cats, or both, and which is owned, operated, or maintained by an
incorporated humane society, animal welfare society, society for the prevention
of cruelty to animals, or other nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare,
protection, and humane treatment of such animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
   7.   “Bite” means to seize with the teeth or jaws so that a person or animal
has been nipped, gripped, wounded, or pierced and the saliva of the biting
animal has contacted the resulting break or abrasion of the skin.
   8.   “Board of Health” means the Taylor County Board of Health or its
representative.
   9.   “Boarding kennel” means a licensed facility other than an animal
hospital or an animal shelter where animals, normally dogs and cats not owned
by the proprietor, are temporarily sheltered, fed, watered, and exercised in
return for a fee.
   10.   “Breeder” (professional) means any person who breeds animals for
profit or who produces more than two litters of animals, normally dogs or cats,
in any one calendar year. The licensee shall maintain affiliation in a
nationally recognized society for the betterment, control, and/or competitive
display of an animal species. “Breeder” (hobbyist) means any person who harbors
four or more animals, normally dogs or cats, or who breeds animals as a hobby,
producing not more than two litters in any one calendar year.
   11.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
      A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.
      B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.
      C.   A solicitation to make an investment.
      D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.
   12.   “Cat” means any member of the animal species Felis Catus.
   13.   “Commercial establishment” means an animal shelter, boarding kennel,
commercial breeder, commercial kennel, dealer, pet shop, pound, public auction,
or research facility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
   14.   “Control of an animal” means that the same is on a leash not more than
eight feet in length; is under voice control in the presence of a competent
person; is on or within a vehicle being driven or parked; or is within the
property limits of its owner or harborer or upon the premises of another person
with the consent of such person.
   15.   “Dog” means any member of the animal species Canis Familiaris.
   16.   “Domestic animal” includes dogs, cats, domesticated sheep, horses,
cattle, goats, swine, fowl, ducks, geese, turkeys, confined domestic hares and
rabbits, pheasants and other birds and animals raised and/or maintained in
confinement.
   17.   “Euthanasia” means a death brought about by any method which produces
rapid loss of consciousness to a painless death.
   18.   “Exhibitor” means a person who exhibits animals, normally dogs and
cats, for compensation or improvement of the breed.
   19.   “Fair” means any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
      A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair Board
pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted by a
fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa .
      B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.
      C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or concession
booths.
   20.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as defined in
Section 99B.1 of the Code of Iowa .
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   21.   “Groomer” means a person who performs the service of trimming,
bathing, or pedicure of animals, normally dogs and cats.
   22.   “Harborer” means any person who provides food and shelter for any
domesticated animal on other than a periodic or temporary basis.
   23.   “Injury” means an animal’s disfigurement; the impairment of an
animal’s health; or an impairment to the functioning of an animal’s limb or
organ, or the loss of an animal’s limb or organ.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
   24.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine, equine,
ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas and emus; farm deer as defined in
Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa ; or poultry.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1)
   25.   “Owner” means any person having right of property in any animal; who
keeps an animal; who has an animal in his or her care or custody; or who
knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises occupied by such
person.
   26.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained in a
small tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to a
rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical fish,
goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   27.   “Pet shop” means an establishment operated by a person which acquires
animals, birds, reptiles and fish bred by others, whether an owner, agent, or
on consignment, and sells, offers to sell, exchanges, or offers for adoption,
with or without charge, such animals, birds, reptiles, and fish as domestic
pets to the general public at wholesale or retail.
   28.   “Pound” means a facility for the prevention of cruelty to animals
operated by the State, a municipal corporation, or other political subdivision
of the State for the purpose of impounding or harboring seized stray, homeless,
abandoned, or unwanted dogs, cats, or other animals; or a facility operated for
such a purpose under a contract with any municipal corporation or incorporated
society.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
   29.   “Research facility” means any school or college of medicine,
veterinary medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, or osteopathic medicine, or hospital,
diagnostic or research laboratories, or other educational or scientific
establishment situated in the State concerned with the investigation of, or
instruction concerning the structure or function of living organisms, the
cause, prevention, control, or cure of diseases or abnormal conditions of human
beings or animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
   30.   “Trainer” means a person qualified by training and experience in
various facets of animal life, normally dogs.
   31.   “Vaccination” means the administration of antirabic vaccine by a
licensed veterinarian at such intervals as required by State statutes and the
State Department of Agriculture.
   32.   “Veterinarian” means a veterinarian licensed pursuant to Chapter 169
of the Code of Iowa who practices veterinary medicine in the State.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
   33.   “Vicious (dangerous) animal” means any animal (domestic or wild) known
to attack a person where such person may lawfully be at any time, without
provocation, or any animal that bites or otherwise injures a human.
   34.   “Voice control” means that an animal:
      A.   Is physically capable of hearing normal commands;
      B.   Is, at the time under consideration, within reasonable proximity to
the controller so that shouting or excessively loud commands are not necessary;
      C.   Has been adequately trained in obedience so as to be capable of
understanding control commands; and
      D.   Either continually demonstrates, or is able to demonstrate on
demand, response to a command that will cause the animal to immediately come
into close proximity to the controller and cease any aggressive behavior or
action that would be offensive to other person or animals.
   35.   “Work dog” means any member of the animal species Canis Familiaris
trained for and actively engaged in rescue, law enforcement, or war work, or as
a guide for the blind or deaf.
(Section 55.02 - Ord. 449 - Apr. 21 Supp.)
55.03 LICENSING OF ANIMALS.
   1.   Licensing of Dogs. Each owner of a dog shall obtain a current license
tag for each dog from the Clerk on or before the first day of January of each
year. Licenses become delinquent January 2 of each year, except in those cases
where by reason of residence or age of dog, the dog was not subject to the
licensing during the January 1 to December 31 period. The license fee is $5.00
for each dog. The license tag shall be attached by the owner to a substantial
collar or harness on the dog, and during the term of the license, shall be at
all times kept on the dog for which the license is issued. This subsection does
not apply if:
      A.   The dog is a kennel dog which is not allowed to run at large;
      B.   The dog is being maintained in an Animal Control Center;
      C.   The dog is under six months of age, unless such dog is found at
large.
   2.   Licensing of Cats. Each owner of a cat shall obtain a current license
tag for each cat from the Clerk on or before the first day of January of each
year. Licenses become delinquent January 2 of each year except in those cases
where by reason of residence or age of the cat, the cat was not subject to the
licensing during the January 1 to December 31 period. The license fee is $5.00
for each cat. The license tag shall be attached by the owner to a substantial
collar or harness on the cat, and during the term of the license, shall be at
all times kept on the cat for which the license is issued. This section does
not apply if:
      A.   The cat is a kennel cat which is not allowed to run at large;
      B.   The cat is being maintained in an Animal Control Center;
      C.   The cat is under six months of age, unless such cat is found at
large.
   3.   Fine. The fine for failure to license an animal is $25.00.
   4.   Vaccination.
      A.   It is the duty of each dog owner to have such dog inoculated with an
avianized antirabic vaccine or any similar vaccine by a veterinarian every two
calendar years.
      B.   It is the duty of each cat owner to have such cat inoculated with
avianized antirabic vaccine or any similar vaccine by a veterinarian every two
calendar years.
      C.   Dogs and cats under six months of age are not required to be
vaccinated.
      D.   Any dog or cat for which a veterinarian licensed by the State issues
a certificate to the effect that the proposed inoculation will be harmful is
exempt from the inoculation prescribed by this section.
      E.   The owners of all dogs or cats shall obtain a current vaccination
tag evidencing current vaccination from a licensed veterinarian which shall be
attached to a substantial collar or harness on the animal by the owner, and
shall at all times be kept on the animal for which the vaccination was given.
The owner of a dog or cat may, at his or her option, have the thigh or ear
tattooed to evidence such vaccination in lieu of attaching a tag thereto.
   5.   Certificate and Tag. The Animal Control Officer, Mayor, and Clerk shall
negotiate with local veterinarians licensed by the State with regard to the
form and content of an appropriate certificate and tag for each dog and cat
vaccinated.
   6.   Duties of Veterinarian and Owner. It is the duty of each veterinarian,
after inoculating a dog or cat, to complete a certificate with the information
required in the previous subsection and to present one copy to the owner of the
dog or cat and to retain a copy. The veterinarian shall also deliver the
corresponding tag to the owner of the dog or cat, and said owner shall
immediately attach the same to the collar harness of said dog or cat, which
shall be worn by the dog or cat at all times.
55.04 INJURY TO PROPERTY; WASTE ACCUMULATION.
   It is unlawful for any person owning or possessing a dog or cat to permit
such dog or cat to go upon any sidewalk, parkway, or private lands or premises
without the permission of the owner of such premises and break, bruise, tear
up, crush or injure any lawn, flower bed, plant, shrub, tree or garden in any
manner whatsoever, or to defecate thereon. It is unlawful for any owner or
person in charge of an animal to fail to clean up and remove as soon as
possible any excrement or droppings deposited by said animal on any real estate
other than the premises of the owner or person in charge. This section shall
not apply to a person who is visually or physically handicapped.
55.05 MANNER OF KEEPING.
   1.   Pens, Yards or Runs. All pens, yards or runs or other structures
wherein any animal is kept shall be of such construction so as to be easily
cleaned and in good repair. It is unlawful for any person keeping or harboring
animals to:
      A.   Fail to keep the premises where such animals are kept free from
offensive odors to the extent that such odors are disturbing to any person
residing within reasonable proximity of said premises;
      B.   Allow the premises where animals are kept to become unclean and a
threat to the public health by failing to diligently and systematically to
remove all animal waste from the premises;
      C.   Allow animals or premises where animals are kept to become infested
with ticks, fleas or other vermin, by failing to diligently and systematically
apply accepted methods of insect and parasite control.
   2.   Fences. Fences which are intended as enclosures for any animal shall be
securely constructed, shall be adequate for the purpose, kept in good repair,
and shall not be allowed to become unsightly.
   3.   Inspection. The Board of Health may, at any time, inspect or cause to
inspected any structure or premises and issue any such order as may be
necessary to enforce the provisions of this section, and any relevant or
pertinent rule, regulation or ordinance. It is unlawful for any owner to fail
to comply with such an order.
55.06 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   1.   Dogs and Cats. It is unlawful for any person owning or possessing any
dog or cat to permit the same to run at large. Dogs and cats properly
identified as required by the law shall be deemed under restraint, and not
running at large, if:
      A.   The dog or cat is on the premises of the owner or of a person given
charge of the dog or cat by the owner, and is either:
         (1)   Accompanied by and obedient to the commands of the owner or the
person given such charge; or
         (2)   Confined on those premises by an adequate protective fence or by
leash, cord or chain that does not allow the dog or cat to go beyond the
owner’s real property line.
      B.   The dog or cat is off the premises of the owner, and it either is:
         (1)   Accompanied by and obedient to the commands of the owner or a
competent responsible person; or
         (2)   On a leash, cord or chain not more than six feet in length, and
under the control of a person competent to restrain and control the cat or dog;
or
         (3)   Confined within a motor vehicle.
      C.   It is properly housed in a veterinary hospital or kennel.
Dogs and cats are deemed to be at large if they do not have the necessary
identification tags, or if they are not under restraint by one of the methods
set forth in this section.
   2.   General Provisions. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter, an animal shall be deemed at large at any time when attacking persons,
attacking domestic animals or destroying property. Furthermore, any female dog
or cat in heat shall be deemed at large at any time except:
      A.   When housed in a building which is completely enclosed; or
      B.   When housed in a veterinary hospital or kennel; or
      C.   When on the premises of the owner, provided the area on which such
animal is located is completely enclosed by a fence or other structure having a
height of at least 42 inches.
Nothing in this section, however, shall be construed as prohibiting any owner
of any female dog or cat in heat from walking such animal with a leash, cord or
chain not more than six feet in length, or from transporting such animal within
a motor vehicle.
55.07 IMPOUNDMENT.
   The Mayor or any person designated by the Mayor shall impound any such dog,
cat, or other animal at large in the City. If by an identifying tag or other
means, the owner of such animal can be determined, the Animal Control Officer
or other police officer shall notify such owner as soon as possible by
telephone or mail of the impoundment of the animal. The owner may obtain
possession of any dog, cat, or other animal so impounded or seized by paying an
impounding fee of $15.00 per day and paying the reasonable cost of keeping the
dog, cat or other animal during the time that it is impounded, provided,
however, that if the impounded animal is a dog or cat, said dog or cat shall
not be released until proof has been furnished to the police officer that the
dog or cat has been inoculated with antirabic vaccine in accordance with the
terms of this chapter. Such animal may be released temporarily to a licensed
veterinarian or an employee of a licensed veterinarian, for the purpose of
inoculation with antirabic vaccine or for other treatment. After such dog, cat
or other animal has been so impounded for a period of seven days without having
been reclaimed by its owner or anyone in behalf of said owner, said dog, cat or
other animal shall become the property of the City, and shall be humanely
destroyed or given to an appropriate person for adoption.
55.08 BARKING DOGS AND CRYING CATS.
   1.   Keeping Prohibited. It is unlawful for any person knowingly to keep or
harbor any dog which habitually barks, howls, yelps or emits other loud noises,
or any cat which habitually cries, howls or emits other loud noises to the
great disturbance of the peace and quiet of the neighborhood, or in such manner
as to materially disturb or annoy persons in the neighborhood who are of
ordinary sensibilities. Such dogs and cats are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
   2.   Complaints. Whenever any person complains to the Taylor County
Sheriff’s Office or Mayor that a dog which habitually barks, howls, yelps or
emits other loud noises or a cat which habitually cries, howls or emits other
loud noises is being kept by any person in the City, the Taylor County
Sheriff’s Office or Mayor shall notify the owner of said dog or cat that a
complaint has been received and that the person should take whatever steps
necessary to alleviate the howling, yelping, crying or other disturbing or
annoying noise. If the warning given to the person alleged to be keeping a dog
or cat as described herein is ineffective, then a verified complaint may be
presented to the Taylor County Sheriff’s Office or Mayor, alleging that a
vicious dog or a dog which habitually barks, howls, yelps or emits other loud
noises, or a cat which habitually cries, howls, or emits other loud noises is
being kept by any person within the City. The Taylor County Sheriff’s Office or
Mayor shall inform the owner of such dog or cat that said verified complaint
has been received and shall cite the owner of the dog or cat for the violation
alleged in said verified complaint.
55.09 NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS LIMITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep dogs, cats or other animals in such
numbers or in such manner that their presence disturbs the peace and comfort of
any neighborhood, or causes a menace or detriment to public health. The
provisions of this section do not apply to any establishment where dogs or cats
are kept for breeding, sale, sporting purposes or boarding. In the areas where
kennels are permitted, no kennel shall be located closer than 100 feet to the
boundary of the nearest adjacent residential lot. As used in this section,
“dog” means any canine, regardless of age or sex, and “cat” means any feline,
regardless of age or sex.
55.10 ANIMAL NEGLECT.
   1.   It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of an animal and
confines that animal to fail to provide the animal with any of the following
conditions for the animal’s welfare:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.3)
      A.   Access to food in an amount and quality reasonably sufficient to
satisfy the animal’s basic nutrition level to the extent that the animal’s
health or life is endangered.
      B.   Access to a supply of potable water in an amount reasonably
sufficient to satisfy the animal’s basic hydration level to the extent that the
animal’s health or life is endangered. Access to snow or ice does not satisfy
this requirement.
      C.   Sanitary conditions free from excessive animal waste or the
overcrowding of animals to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered.
      D.   Ventilated shelter reasonably sufficient to provide adequate
protection from the elements and weather conditions suitable for the age,
species, and physical condition of the animal so as to maintain the animal in a
state of good health to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered. The shelter must protect the animal from wind, rain, snow, or sun
and have adequate bedding to provide reasonable protection against cold and
dampness. A shelter may include a residence, garage, barn, shed, or doghouse.
      E.   Grooming, to the extent it is reasonably necessary to prevent
adverse health effects or suffering.
      F.   Veterinary care deemed necessary by a reasonably prudent person to
relieve an animal’s distress from any of the following:
         (1)   A condition caused by failing to provide for the animal’s
welfare as described in this section.
         (2)   An injury or illness suffered by the animal causing the animal
to suffer prolonged pain and suffering.
   2.   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      A.   A person operating a commercial establishment under a valid
authorization issued or renewed under Section 162.2A of the Code of Iowa , or a
person acting under the direction or supervision of that person, if all of the
following apply:
         (1)   The animal, as described in Subsection 1, was maintained as part
of the commercial establishment’s operation.
         (2)   In providing conditions for the welfare of the animal, as
described in Subsection 1, the person complied with the standard of care
requirements provided in Section 162.10A[1] of the Code of Iowa , including any
applicable rules adopted by the Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship
applying to: (i) a State licensee or registrant operating pursuant to Section
162.10A[2a] or [2b] of the Code of Iowa ; or (ii) a permittee operating
pursuant to Section 162.10A[2c] of the Code of Iowa .
      B.   A research facility if the research facility has been issued or
renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and Land
Stewardship pursuant to Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa , and performs
functions within the scope of accepted practices and disciplines associated
with the research facility.
(Section 55.10 - Ord. 449 - Apr. 21 Supp.)
55.11 LIVESTOCK NEGLECT.
   It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines livestock in any place
to fail to provide the livestock with care consistent with customary animal
husbandry practices or to deprive the livestock of necessary sustenance or to
injure or destroy livestock by any means which causes pain or suffering in a
manner inconsistent with customary animal husbandry practices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.2)
55.12 ABANDONMENT OF CATS AND DOGS.
   It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of a cat or dog to
relinquish all rights in and duties to care for the cat or dog. This section
does not apply to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.8)
   1.   The delivery of a cat or dog to another person who will accept
ownership and custody of the cat or dog.
   2.   The delivery of a cat or dog to an animal shelter or that has been
issued or renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and
Land Stewardship under Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa .
   3.   A person who relinquishes custody of a cat at a location in which the
person does not hold a legal or equitable interest, if previously the person
had taken custody of the cat at the same location and provided for the cat’s
sterilization by a veterinarian
(Section 55.12 - Ord. 449 - Apr. 21 Supp.)
55.13 MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENTS.
   The operator of any motor vehicle which strikes a domestic animal shall stop
at once and render such assistance as may be possible and shall immediately
report such injury or death to the animal’s owner. In the event that the owner
cannot be ascertained and located, such operator shall at once report the
accident to the Animal Control Officer or other police officer.
55.14 KILLING AND INJURING BIRDS.
   It is unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any kind of bird within
the City or to throw stones, shoot at or use any implements with the intention
of killing or injuring any bird within the City, unless specifically ordered by
the Board of Health or authorized upon special application related to nuisance
aggregations of starlings, pigeons, or sparrows approved by the Council after
recommendation by the Animal Control Officer or Mayor.
55.15 KEEPING OF BEES.
   It is unlawful for any person to establish or maintain any hive, stand or
box where bees are kept, or keep any bees in or upon any premises within the
corporate limits of the City unless the bees are kept in accordance with the
following provisions:
   1.   If any colonies are kept within 50 feet of any exterior boundary of the
property on which the hive, stand, or box is located, a barrier that will
prevent bees from flying through it, no less than five feet high, shall be
installed and maintained along said exterior boundary. Said barrier may be
either a plant or artificial.
   2.   Fresh, clean water facilities for bees shall be provided on the said
premises.
   3.   The bees and equipment shall be kept in accordance with the provisions
of the State statutes.
   4.   Before any person shall keep or have in his or her possession or under
his or her control within the City limits any hive, stand, box or colony of
bees, permission of the Council to do so must be first obtained. Such
permission may be revoked at any time by the Council; but after such
revocation, no penalties shall attach to any defendant by reason of non-removal
of bees within a period of less than one month.
Nothing in this section shall be deemed or construed to prohibit the keeping of
bees in a hive, stand or box located or kept within a school or university
building for the purpose of study or observation.
55.16 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   1.   “Dangerous animal” means: (i) any animal which is not naturally tame or
gentle, and which is of a wild nature or disposition, and which is capable of
killing, inflicting serious injury upon or causing disease among human beings
or domestic animals and having known tendencies as a species to do so; (ii) any
animal declared to be dangerous by the Council; and (iii) the following
animals, which are deemed to be dangerous animals per se:
      A.   Badgers, wolverines, weasels and skunks;
      B.   Raccoons;
      C.   Scorpions;
      D.   Any crossbreeds of such animals which have similar characteristics
to the animals specified above;
      E.   Piranhas and sharks;
      F.   Pit bull terriers, Staffordshire Terriers, American Pitbull
Terriers, American Staffordshire Terriers, or any dog which has the appearance
and characteristics of being predominately of said breeds.
   2.   Keeping Prohibited. No person shall keep, shelter or harbor a dangerous
animal within the City for any purpose except in the following circumstances:
      A.   The entry into and display at an approved dog show, while properly
confined in a cage or on a leash and personally restrained by a handler or
owner of the dog.
      B.   Animals under the control of a law enforcement or military agency.
   3.   Regulations for Keeping Dangerous Animals.
      A.   Every person keeping, sheltering or harboring a dangerous animal as
permitted under this section shall at all times keep such animal securely
confined with a cage or other enclosure approved by the Animal Control Officer
or Mayor.
      B.   No person owning, keeping, sheltering or harboring a dangerous
animal as permitted in this section shall permit or allow such animal to enter
upon, be placed in or traverse any public property, park property, public
right-of-way, public waterway or lagoon or public sewer system, or any business
establishment licensed by the City, or the property of another except when such
animal is being transported while caged or confined. (Exception: The owner of a
pit bull terrier shall be permitted to walk or exercise his or her pit bull
terrier upon property excluded in this paragraph provided such pit bull terrier
is secured on a leash of four feet or shorter and is wearing a securely
fastened and approved muzzle. Further, the dog shall have a current City
license tag and vaccination tag affixed to its collar.
      C.   It is the duty of the person permitted to keep dangerous animals
under Subsection 2 of this section to report to the Taylor County Sheriff’s
Office or Mayor when any dangerous animal is found missing.
      D.   No person shall keep or harbor a dangerous animal which has
demonstrated a propensity to attack or bite without provocation.
   4.   Escape: Prohibition and Duty. No person shall aid or cause any
dangerous animal, whether owned by such person or not, to escape confinement or
impoundment, whether such confinement or impoundment is upon such person’s
property or that of another, by opening any gate, door or window or making any
opening of any fence, enclosure or structure or by unleashing or releasing the
animal.
   5.   Seizure, Impoundment and Disposition.
      A.   In the event that a dangerous animal is found at large and
unattended upon public property, park property, public right-of-way, public
waterway, lagoon or public sewer system, or the property of someone other than
its owner, thereby creating a hazard to persons or property, such animal may,
in the discretion of the Animal Control Officer or Mayor, be destroyed if it
cannot be confined or captured. The City shall be under no duty to attempt the
confinement or capture of a dangerous animal found at large, nor shall it have
a duty to notify the owner of such animal prior to its destruction.
      B.   Upon the complaint of any individual that a person is keeping,
sheltering or harboring a dangerous animal on premises in the City in violation
of this section, or who keeps a dangerous animal which has demonstrated a
propensity to attack or bite without provocation, the Animal Control Officer or
Mayor shall cause the matter to be investigated and if after investigation, the
facts indicate that the person named in the complaint is keeping, sheltering or
harboring a dangerous animal in the City, the Animal Control Officer or Mayor
shall order the person named in the complaint to safely remove such animal from
the City or to destroy the animal within three days of the receipt of such
order. Such order shall be contained in a notice to remove the dangerous
animal, which notice shall be given in writing to the person keeping,
sheltering or harboring the dangerous animal, and shall be served personally or
by certified mail. Such order and notice to remove the dangerous animal shall
not be required where such dangerous animal has previously caused serious
physical harm or death to any person, in which case the Animal Control Officer
or Mayor shall cause the animal to be immediately seized and impounded or
killed if seizure and impoundment are not possible without risk of serious
physical harm or death to any person.
      C.   The order to remove a dangerous animal issued by the Animal Control
Officer or Mayor may be appealed to the Council. In order to appeal such order,
written notice of appeal must be filed with the Clerk within seven days after
receipt of the order contained in the notice to remove the dangerous animal.
Failure to file such written notice of appeal shall constitute a waiver of the
right to appeal the order.
      D.   The notice of appeal shall state the grounds for such appeal and
shall be delivered personally or by certified mail to the Clerk. The hearing of
such appeal shall be scheduled within seven days of the receipt of the notice
of appeal. The hearing may be continued for good cause. After such hearing, the
Council may affirm or reverse the order of the Animal Control Officer or Mayor.
Such determination shall be contained in a written decision and shall be filed
with the Clerk within seven days after the hearing or any continued session
thereof.
      E.   If the Council affirms the action of the Animal Control Officer or
Mayor, the Council shall order in its written decision that the person owning,
sheltering, harboring or keeping such dangerous animal remove such animal from
the City or destroy it. The decision and order shall immediately be served upon
the person against whom rendered in the same manner as the notice of removal.
If the original order of the Animal Control Officer or Mayor is not appealed
and is not complied with within seven days or the order of the Council after
appeal is not complied with, the Animal Control Officer or Mayor is authorized
to seize and impound such dangerous animal. An animal so seized shall be
impounded for a period of seven days. If at the end of the impoundment period,
the person against whom the decision and order of the Animal Control Officer,
Mayor or Council was issued has not petitioned the District Court for a review
of said order, the Animal Control Officer shall cause the animal to be disposed
of by sale or destroy such animal in a humane manner. All impoundment fees
shall be at the expense of the owner of the dangerous animal, which fees shall
be the actual cost of the feeding and care of the animal.
55.17 RABIES AND ANIMAL BITES.
   1.   Reporting. The owner of any dog or cat or other animal which has bitten
or attacked a person, or any person having knowledge of such bite or attack,
shall immediately report such fact to the Animal Control Officer or the Taylor
County Sheriff’s Office or Mayor. The report shall include name and address of
the person bitten or attacked, and if known, time and location of the bite or
attack, description of the animal, and name and address of the owner of such
animal.
   2.   Duty of Physicians and Nurses. It is the duty of every physician and
nurse to immediately inform the Animal Control Officer or the Taylor County
Sheriff’s Office or Mayor of any person treated by such physician or nurse for
bites inflicted by an animal. Within 24 hours a written report shall be
submitted by the nurse or physician with the name and address of the person
treated together with such other information as will assist in the prevention
of rabies or other disease, and the identification and apprehension of the
biting animal.
   3.   Duty of Owner. Upon demand by the Animal Control Officer, the owner
shall forthwith surrender any animal which has bitten or attacked any person,
for supervised quarantine at the Animal Control Center at the expense of the
owner. The animal shall remain confined for a minimum period of 10 days, under
the observation of a licensed veterinarian.
   4.   In-Home Confinement. When evidence is presented that such animal is
currently inoculated against rabies, the Animal Control Officer, at his or her
discretion, may give written order to confine the animal in the home of its
owner, or in such a manner so as to prohibit the animal from coming into
contact with or biting any other person or animal, for a minimum of 10 days,
provided, however, that the owner has the means to adequately confine the
animal. It is unlawful for any owner to fail to comply with such an order.
   5.   Veterinarian’s Examination. Any animal which has bitten or attacked any
person shall immediately be examined by a licensed veterinarian and a written
report of the animal’s clinical condition shall be forwarded to the Animal
Control Officer within 24 hours. At the and of the confinement period, the
veterinarian shall reexamine the animal and submit to the Animal Control
Officer a written report of the animal’s final clinical condition, recommending
whether or not the quarantine should be terminated.
   6.   Release by Animal Control Officer. No owner of any animal known to have
bitten any person shall euthanize, sell, give away or transport from the City,
or otherwise dispose of such animal, until written release from the required
quarantine for such animal is obtained from the Animal Control Officer.
   7.   Expenses. All expenses incurred in the confinement and examination of
any animal, pursuant to the provisions of this section, shall be borne by the
owner of such animal.
   8.   Rabies Diagnosis. When rabies has been diagnosed in an animal under
quarantine or rabies suspected by a licensed veterinarian, and the animal dies
while under such observation, a Board of Health Officer shall immediately take
the head of such animal to the State Health Department for pathological
examination and shall notify the proper public health authorities of reports of
human contacts and the diagnosis.
55.18 ENABLING ANIMALS TO LEAVE PREMISES OF OWNER.
   It is unlawful for any person except the owner or his or her agent to open
any gate or door on any premises or otherwise to entice or enable any animal to
leave said premises.
55.19 ANIMALS IN FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS.
   No owner shall permit or allow his or her animal to be on or in any
building, store, restaurant, or tavern where food or food products are sold,
prepared or dispensed to people other than the owner thereof. This section does
not apply to any animal actively engaged as a guide for the blind or deaf.
55.20 RIDING ANIMALS ON PUBLIC WAYS.
   No person shall ride any animal on any sidewalk. No person shall ride any
animal from Madison Street on Jefferson Street, Main Street and Washington
Street to Dodge Street without first obtaining written consent from the Mayor.
No person shall ride any animal on the private property of another without
first obtaining written consent to do so from the property owner.
55.21 PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717.E)
   1.   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or advertise
that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:
      A.   A prize for participating in a game.
      B.   A prize for participating in a fair.
      C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.
      D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract which includes
provisions unrelated to the ownership, care or disposition of the pet.
   2.   Exceptions. This section does not apply to any of the following:
      A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of Iowa if
the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet on the
premises of the pet shop.
      B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of America;
the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with outdoor
recreation, hunting or fishing, including but not limited to the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.
55.22 TAMPERING WITH A RABIES VACCINATION TAG.
   It is unlawful to tamper with a rabies vaccination tag.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.45)
   1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with a rabies vaccination tag
if all of the following apply:
      A.   The person knowingly removes, damages, or destroys a rabies
vaccination tag as described in Section 351.35 of the Code of Iowa .
      B.   The rabies vaccination tag is attached to a collar worn by a dog,
including as provided in Sections 351.25 and 351.26 of the Code of Iowa .
   2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
      A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized
to take action by the owner.
      B.   A peace officer.
      C.   A veterinarian.
      D.   An animal shelter or pound.
(Section 55.22 - Ord. 449 - Apr. 21 Supp.)
55.23 TAMPERING WITH AN ELECTRONIC HANDLING DEVICE.
   It is unlawful to tamper with an electronic handling device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.46)
   1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with an electronic handling
device if all of the following apply:
      A.   The person knowingly removes, disables, or destroys an electronic
device designed and used to maintain custody or control of the dog or modify
the dog’s behavior.
      B.   The electronic device is attached to or worn by the dog or attached
to an item worn by the dog, including (but not limited to) a collar, harness,
or vest.
   2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
      A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized
to take action by the owner.
      B.   A peace officer.
      C.   A veterinarian.
      D.   An animal shelter or pound.
(Section 55.23 - Ord. 449 - Apr. 21 Supp.)
CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
 
60.01 Title                          60.05 Reports of Traffic Accidents
60.02 Definitions                    60.06 Peace Officer’s Authority
60.03 Administration and Enforcement 60.07 Obedience to Peace Officers
60.04 Power to Direct Traffic        60.08 Parades Regulated
 
60.01 TITLE.
   Chapters 60 through 70 of this Code of Ordinances may be known and cited as
the “Bedford Traffic Code” (and are referred to herein as the “Traffic Code”).
60.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law,
such definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are hereby adopted
by reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:
   1.   “Business District” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway when 50 percent or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 300
feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(7))
   2.   “MPH” means miles per hour.
   3.   “Parade” means any march or procession of persons or vehicles organized
for marching or moving on the streets in an organized fashion or manner or any
march or procession of persons or vehicles represented or advertised to the
public as a parade.
   4.   “Park” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   5.   “Peace officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   6.   “Pedestrian” means a person afoot or a person using a pedestrian
conveyance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(51))
   7.   “Pedestrian conveyance” means any human-powered device by which a
pedestrian may move other than by walking or by which a pedestrian may move
another person, including but not limited to a wheelchair, stroller,
skateboard, scooter, or other similar device. Pedestrian conveyance also
includes an electric personal assistive mobility device and any other device
used to move a person sitting or standing on the device regardless of whether
the device is powered by an electric motor, so long as the electric motor
produces less than 750 watts. Pedestrian conveyance does not include a bicycle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(51A))
   8.   “Residence district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway not comprising a business, suburban, or school district, where 40
percent or more of the frontage on such a highway for a distance of 300 feet or
more is occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use for
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(63))
   9.   “School district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of 200 feet in either direction from a schoolhouse.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(70))
   10.   “Stand” or “standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   11.   “Stop” means when required, the complete cessation of movement.
   12.   “Stop” or “stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a vehicle,
even momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control sign or signal.
   13.   “Suburban district” means all other parts of the City not included in
the business, school, or residence districts.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(78))
   14.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and
devices not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for the
purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
   15.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway. Vehicle does not
include:
      A.   Any device moved by human power, including a low-speed electric
bicycle.
      B.   Any device used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
      C.   Any personal delivery device operated pursuant to Chapter 321O of
the Code of Iowa.
      D.   Any integral part of a truck tractor or road tractor which is
mounted on the frame of the truck tractor or road tractor immediately behind
the cab and which may be used to transport persons and property, but which
cannot be drawn upon the highway by the truck tractor or another motor vehicle.
      E.   Any steering axle, dolly, auxiliary axle, or other integral part of
another vehicle which in and of itself is incapable of commercially
transporting any person or property but is used primarily to support another
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(90))
(Section 60.02 – Ord. 466 – Mar. 25 Supp.)
60.03 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Provisions of this Traffic Code and State law relating to motor vehicles and
law of the road are enforced by the Police Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
60.04 POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   A peace officer or, in the absence of a peace officer, any officer of the
Fire Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws. In the
event of an emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require,
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 and 321.236[2])
60.05 REPORTS OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the
City shall file a report as and when required by the Iowa Department of
Transportation. A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for the
confidential use of peace officers and shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)
60.06 PEACE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.
   A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle with
reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading or other manifest
of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle. A peace officer having probable cause to stop a vehicle may require
exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)
60.07 OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control or regulate traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)
60.08 PARADES REGULATED.
   No person shall conduct or cause any parade on any street except as provided
herein:
   1.   Definition. “Parade” means any march or procession of persons or
vehicles organized for marching or moving on the streets in an organized
fashion or manner or any march or procession of persons or vehicles represented
or advertised to the public as a parade.
   2.   Permit Required. No parade shall be conducted without first obtaining a
written permit from the Clerk. Such permit shall state the time and date for
the parade to be held and the streets or general route therefor. Such written
permit granted to the person organizing or sponsoring the parade shall be
permission for all participants therein to parade when such participants have
been invited by the permittee to participate therein. No fee shall be required
for such permit.
   3.   Parade Not a Street Obstruction. Any parade for which a permit has been
issued as herein required, and the persons lawfully participating therein,
shall not be deemed an obstruction of the streets notwithstanding the
provisions of any other ordinance to the contrary.
   4.   Control by Police and Firefighters. Persons participating in any parade
shall at all times be subject to the lawful orders and directions in the
performance of their duties of law enforcement personnel and members of the
Fire Department.
CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
 
61.01 Installation  61.04 Standards
61.02 Crosswalks    61.05 Compliance
61.03 Traffic Lanes  
 
61.01 INSTALLATION.
   The Police Chief shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control
devices when and as required under this Traffic Code or under State law or
emergency or temporary traffic control devices for the duration of an emergency
or temporary condition as traffic conditions may require to regulate, guide or
warn traffic. The Police Chief shall keep a record of all such traffic control
devices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.02 CROSSWALKS.
   The Police Chief is hereby authorized, subject to approval of the Council by
resolution, to designate and maintain crosswalks by appropriate traffic control
devices at intersections where, due to traffic conditions, there is particular
danger to pedestrians crossing the street or roadway, and at such other places
as traffic conditions require.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] & 321.255)
   1.   A pedestrian crosswalk for a recreational trail is hereby established
on Highway 2 at Station 1732+00 (Mile Post 69.4).
61.03 TRAFFIC LANES.
   The Police Chief is hereby authorized to mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as traffic conditions require, consistent with this
Traffic Code. Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] & 321.255)
61.04 STANDARDS.
   Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.05 COMPLIANCE.
   No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official
traffic control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, unless at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to
the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under
Section 321.231 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
 
62.01 Violation of Regulations 62.04 Clinging to Vehicle
62.02 Play Streets Designated  62.05 Quiet Zones
62.03 Vehicles on Sidewalks    62.06 Obstructing View at Intersections
 
62.01 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of
a peace officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or who
fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa statutory
laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in
violation of this section. These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
   1.   Section 321.17 – Misdemeanor to violate registration provisions.
   2.   Section 321.32 – Registration card, carried and exhibited; exception.
   3.   Section 321.37 – Display of plates.
   4.   Section 321.38 – Plates, method of attaching, imitations prohibited.
   5.   Section 321.57 – Operation under special plates.
   6.   Section 321.67 – Certificate of title must be executed.
   7.   Section 321.78 – Injuring or tampering with vehicle.
   8.   Section 321.79 – Intent to injure.
   9.   Section 321.91 – Penalty for abandonment.
   10.   Section 321.98 – Operation without registration.
   11.   Section 321.99 – Fraudulent use of registration.
   12.   Section 321.104 – Penal offenses against title law.
   13.   Section 321.115 – Antique vehicles; model year plates permitted.
   14.   Section 321.174 – Operators licensed.
   15.   Section 321.174A – Operation of motor vehicles with expired license.
   16.   Section 321.180 – Instruction permits.
   17.   Section 321.180B – Graduated driver’s licenses for persons aged
fourteen through seventeen.
   18.   Section 321.193 – Restricted licenses.
   19.   Section 321.194 – Special minor’s licenses.
   20.   Section 321.208A – Operation in violation of out-of-service order.
   21.   Section 321.216 – Unlawful use of license and nonoperator’s
identification card.
   22.   Section 321.216B – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain alcohol.
   23.   Section 321.216C – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain cigarettes or tobacco
products.
   24.   Section 321.218 – Operating without valid driver’s license or when
disqualified.
   25.   Section 321.219 – Permitting unauthorized minor to drive.
   26.   Section 321.220 – Permitting unauthorized person to drive.
   27.   Section 321.221 – Employing unlicensed chauffeur.
   28.   Section 321.222 – Renting motor vehicle to another.
   29.   Section 321.223 – License inspected.
   30.   Section 321.224 – Record kept.
   31.   Section 321.232 – Speed detection jamming devices; penalty.
   32.   Section 321.234A – All-terrain vehicles.
   33.   Section 321.235A – Electric personal assistive mobility devices.
   34.   Section 321.247 – Golf cart operation on City streets.
   35.   Section 321.257 – Official traffic control signal.
   36.   Section 321.259 – Unauthorized signs, signals or markings.
   37.   Section 321.260 – Interference with devices, signs or signals;
unlawful possession.
   38.   Section 321.262 – Leaving scene of traffic accident prohibited;
vehicle damage only; removal of vehicles.
   39.   Section 321.263 – Information and aid.
   40.   Section 321.264 – Striking unattended vehicle.
   41.   Section 321.265 – Striking fixtures upon a highway.
   42.   Section 321.266 – Reporting accidents.
   43.   Section 321.275 – Operation of motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
   44.   Section 321.276 – Use of electronic communication device while
driving; text-messaging.
   45.   Section 321.277 – Reckless driving.
   46.   Section 321.277A – Careless driving.
   47.   Section 321.278 – Drag racing prohibited.
   48.   Section 321.281 – Actions against bicyclists.
   49.   Section 321.284 – Open container; drivers.
   50.   Section 321.284A – Open container; passengers.
   51.   Section 321.288 – Control of vehicle; reduced speed.
   52.   Section 321.295 – Limitation on bridge or elevated structures.
   53.   Section 321.297 – Driving on right-hand side of roadways; exceptions.
   54.   Section 321.298 – Meeting and turning to right.
   55.   Section 321.299 – Overtaking a vehicle.
   56.   Section 321.302 – Overtaking and passing.
   57.   Section 321.303 – Limitations on overtaking on the left.
   58.   Section 321.304 – Prohibited passing.
   59.   Section 321.306 – Roadways laned for traffic.
   60.   Section 321.307 – Following too closely.
   61.   Section 321.308 – Motor trucks and towed vehicles; distance
requirements.
   62.   Section 321.309 – Towing.
   63.   Section 321.310 – Towing four-wheel trailers.
   64.   Section 321.312 – Turning on curve or crest of grade.
   65.   Section 321.313 – Starting parked vehicle.
   66.   Section 321.314 – When signal required.
   67.   Section 321.315 – Signal continuous.
   68.   Section 321.316 – Stopping.
   69.   Section 321.317 – Signals by hand and arm or signal device.
   70.   Section 321.318 – Method of giving hand and arm signals.
   71.   Section 321.319 – Entering intersections from different highways.
   72.   Section 321.320 – Left turns; yielding.
   73.   Section 321.321 – Entering through highways.
   74.   Section 321.322 – Vehicles entering stop or yield intersection.
   75.   Section 321.323 – Moving vehicle backward on highway.
   76.   Section 321.323A – Approaching certain stationary vehicles.
   77.   Section 321.324 – Operation on approach of emergency vehicles.
   78.   Section 321.324A – Funeral processions.
   79.   Section 321.329 – Duty of driver; pedestrians crossing or working on
highways.
   80.   Section 321.330 – Use of crosswalks.
   81.   Section 321.332 – White canes restricted to blind persons.
   82.   Section 321.333 – Duty of drivers approaching blind persons.
   83.   Section 321.340 – Driving through safety zone.
   84.   Section 321.341 – Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
   85.   Section 321.342 – Stop at certain railroad crossings; posting warning.
   86.   Section 321.343 – Certain vehicles must stop.
   87.   Section 321.344 – Heavy equipment at crossing.
   88.   Section 321.344B – Immediate safety threat; penalty.
   89.   Section 321.354 – Stopping on traveled way.
   90.   Section 321.359 – Moving other vehicle.
   91.   Section 321.362 – Unattended motor vehicle.
   92.   Section 321.363 – Obstruction to driver’s view.
   93.   Section 321.364 – Vehicles shipping food; preventing contamination by
hazardous material.
   94.   Section 321.365 – Coasting prohibited.
   95.   Section 321.367 – Following fire apparatus.
   96.   Section 321.368 – Crossing fire hose.
   97.   Section 321.369 – Putting debris on highway.
   98.   Section 321.370 – Removing injurious material.
   99.   Section 321.371 – Clearing up wrecks.
   100.   Section 321.372 – School buses.
   101.   Section 321.381 – Movement of unsafe or improperly equipped vehicles.
   102.   Section 321.381A – Operation of low-speed vehicles.
   103.   Section 321.382 – Upgrade pulls; minimum speed.
   104.   Section 321.383 – Exceptions; slow vehicles identified.
   105.   Section 321.384 – When lighted lamps required.
   106.   Section 321.385 – Head lamps on motor vehicles.
   107.   Section 321.386 – Head lamps on motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
   108.   Section 321.387 – Rear lamps.
   109.   Section 321.388 – Illuminating plates.
   110.   Section 321.389 – Reflector requirement.
   111.   Section 321.390 – Reflector requirements.
   112.   Section 321.392 – Clearance and identification lights.
   113.   Section 321.393 – Color and mounting.
   114.   Section 321.394 – Lamp or flag on projecting load.
   115.   Section 321.395 – Lamps on parked vehicles.
   116.   Section 321.398 – Lamps on other vehicles and equipment.
   117.   Section 321.402 – Spot lamps.
   118.   Section 321.403 – Auxiliary driving lamps.
   119.   Section 321.404 – Signal lamps and signal devices.
   120.   Section 321.404A – Light-restricting devices prohibited.
   121.   Section 321.405 – Self-illumination.
   122.   Section 321.408 – Back-up lamps.
   123.   Section 321.409 – Mandatory lighting equipment.
   124.   Section 321.415 – Required usage of lighting devices.
   125.   Section 321.417 – Single-beam road-lighting equipment.
   126.   Section 321.418 – Alternate road-lighting equipment.
   127.   Section 321.419 – Number of driving lamps required or permitted.
   128.   Section 321.420 – Number of lamps lighted.
   129.   Section 321.421 – Special restrictions on lamps.
   130.   Section 321.422 – Red light in front.
   131.   Section 321.423 – Flashing lights.
   132.   Section 321.430 – Brake, hitch, and control requirements.
   133.   Section 321.431 – Performance ability.
   134.   Section 321.432 – Horns and warning devices.
   135.   Section 321.433 – Sirens, whistles, and bells prohibited.
   136.   Section 321.434 – Bicycle sirens or whistles.
   137.   Section 321.436 – Mufflers, prevention of noise.
   138.   Section 321.437 – Mirrors.
   139.   Section 321.438 – Windshields and windows.
   140.   Section 321.439 – Windshield wipers.
   141.   Section 321.440 – Restrictions as to tire equipment.
   142.   Section 321.441 – Metal tires prohibited.
   143.   Section 321.442 – Projections on wheels.
   144.   Section 321.444 – Safety glass.
   145.   Section 321.445 – Safety belts and safety harnesses; use required.
   146.   Section 321.446 – Child restraint devices.
   147.   Section 321.449 – Motor carrier safety regulations.
   148.   Section 321.449A – Rail crew transport drivers.
   149.   Section 321.449B – Texting or using a mobile telephone while
operating a commercial motor vehicle.
   150.   Section 321.450 – Hazardous materials transportation.
   151.   Section 321.454 – Width of vehicles.
   152.   Section 321.455 – Projecting loads on passenger vehicles.
   153.   Section 321.456 – Height of vehicles; permits.
   154.   Section 321.457 – Maximum length.
   155.   Section 321.458 – Loading beyond front.
   156.   Section 321.460 – Spilling loads on highways.
   157.   Section 321.461 – Trailers and towed vehicles.
   158.   Section 321.462 – Drawbars and safety chains.
   159.   Section 321.463 – Maximum gross weight.
   160.   Section 321.465 – Weighing vehicles and removal of excess.
   161.   Section 321.466 – Increased loading capacity; reregistration.
62.02 PLAY STREETS DESIGNATED.
   The Council shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a
play street and cause to be placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway
indicating and helping to protect the same. Whenever authorized signs are
erected indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall
drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of
vehicles having business or whose residences are within such closed area, and
then any said driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such
street or portion thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
62.03 VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area
except at a driveway.
62.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLE.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
in-line skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or
herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
62.05 QUIET ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
62.06 OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
   It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to
obstruct the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a clear
view of traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets. Any such
obstruction is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty may be
abated in the manner provided by
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS
 
63.01 General                             63.04 Special Speed Zones
63.02 State Code Speed Limits             63.05 Minimum Speed
63.03 Parks, Cemeteries, and Parking Lots
 
63.01 GENERAL.
   Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and
of any other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on
any street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a
stop within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)
63.02 STATE CODE SPEED LIMITS.
   The following speed limits are established in Section 321.285 of the Code of
Iowa and any speed in excess thereof is unlawful unless specifically designated
otherwise in this chapter as a special speed zone.
   1.   Business District – 20 miles per hour.
   2.   Residence or School District – 25 miles per hour.
   3.   Suburban District – 45 miles per hour.
63.03 PARKS, CEMETERIES, AND PARKING LOTS.
   A speed in excess of 15 miles per hour in any public park, cemetery, or
parking lot, unless specifically designated otherwise in this chapter, is
unlawful.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[5])
63.04 SPECIAL SPEED ZONES.
   In accordance with requirements of the Iowa Department of Transportation, or
whenever the Council shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that any speed limit listed in Section
63.02 is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found
to exist at any intersection or other place or upon any part of the City street
system, the Council shall determine and adopt by ordinance such higher or lower
speed limit as it deems reasonable and safe at such location. The following
special speed zones have been established:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290)
   1.   Special 30 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 30 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   Iowa No. 148, a controlled access facility as identified in Chapter
140, from the west junction of Iowa No. 2, north to Station 10+00, which is
315.5 feet south of the north corporate limits.
      B.   Iowa No. 148, a controlled access facility as identified in Chapter
140, from the east junction of Iowa No. 2, south to Jackson Street.
   2.   Special 35 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 35 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   Iowa No. 2, a controlled access facility as identified in Chapter
140, from 100 feet west of Court Avenue to 500 feet west of Iowa No. 148.
      B.   Iowa No. 148, from 75 feet north of the north line of Hardin Street
to the intersection of Jackson Street.
   3.   Special 45 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 45 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   Iowa No. 2, a controlled access facility as identified in Chapter
140, from 100 feet west of Court Avenue to 100 feet east of Anderson Street.
      B.   Iowa No. 2, a controlled access facility as identified in Chapter
140, from 500 feet west of Iowa No. 148 to 1400 feet west of Iowa No. 148.
      C.   Iowa No. 148, a controlled access facility as identified in Chapter
140, from Station 10+00 to Station 13+15.5, which is the north corporate line.
      D.   Iowa No. 148, from the intersection of Jackson Street south to
Station 397+22, which is the south corporate line.
      E.   Iowa No. 148, from the south corporate line (Station 397+22) north
to 75 feet north of the north line of Hardin Street.
63.05 MINIMUM SPEED.
   A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede
or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced
speed is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)
CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS
 
64.01 Turning at Intersections 64.03 Right Turn on red Signal Prohibited
64.02 U-Turns                   
 
64.01 TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)
   1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right
half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
   3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street
shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection. A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way
street shall be made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street
being entered upon leaving the intersection.
The Police Chief may cause markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or
adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic conditions
require, that a different course from that specified above be traveled by
vehicles turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons or signs are so
placed, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other
than as directed and required by such markers, buttons or signs.
64.02 U-TURNS.
   It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[9])
64.03 RIGHT TURN ON RED SIGNAL PROHIBITED.
   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red signal shall not proceed or make a
right turn at the following locations when appropriate signs are in place.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.257[2])
   1.   At the intersection of North Street and Madison Street.
CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
 
65.01 Special Stops Required      65.05 Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk
65.02 Four-Way Stop Intersections 65.06 Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed
65.03 Special Yield Required      65.07 Pedestrians' Right-of-Way
65.04 School Stops                 
 
65.01 SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall stop in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Anderson Street. Vehicles traveling north on Anderson Street shall stop
at State Highway No. 2.
   2.   State Street. Vehicles traveling north on State Street shall stop at
Highway No. 2.
   3.   State Street. Vehicles traveling on State Street shall stop at Grant
Street.
   4.   State Street. Vehicles traveling on State Street shall stop at Pearl
Street.
   5.   State Street. Vehicles traveling on State Street shall stop at
Jefferson Street.
   6.   State Street. Vehicles traveling on State Street shall stop at Main
Street.
   7.   Dodge Street. Vehicles traveling on Dodge Street shall stop at Pearl
Street.
   8.   Dodge Street. Vehicles traveling on Dodge Street shall stop at
Jefferson Street.
   9.   Dodge Street. Vehicles traveling on Dodge Street shall stop at Main
Street.
   10.   Dodge Street. Vehicles traveling on Dodge Street shall stop at Jackson
Street.
   11.   Dodge Street. Vehicles traveling on Dodge Street shall stop at
Washington Street.
   12.   Central Avenue. Vehicles traveling on Central Avenue shall stop at
Jackson Street.
   13.   Central Avenue. Vehicles traveling on Central Avenue shall stop at
North Street.
   14.   Central Avenue. Vehicles traveling on Central Avenue shall stop at
Washington Street.
   15.   Central Avenue. Vehicles traveling on Central Avenue shall stop at
Jefferson Street.
   16.   Central Avenue. Vehicles traveling on Central Avenue shall stop at
Main Street.
   17.   Central Avenue. Vehicles traveling on Central Avenue shall stop at
Pearl Street.
   18.   Court Avenue. Vehicles traveling on Court Avenue shall stop at Jackson
Street.
   19.   Court Avenue. Vehicles traveling on Court Avenue shall stop at
Washington Street.
   20.   Court Avenue. Vehicles traveling on Court Avenue shall stop at Main
Street.
   21.   Court Avenue. Vehicles traveling on Court Avenue shall stop at
Jefferson Street.
   22.   Court Avenue. Vehicles traveling on Court Avenue shall stop at Pearl
Street.
   23.   Court Avenue. Vehicles traveling north on Court Avenue shall stop at
State Highway No. 2.
   24.   Madison Street (and/or State Highway No. 148). Vehicles traveling on
Madison Street or State Highway No. 148 shall stop at State Highway No. 2.
   25.   Pennsylvania Street. Vehicles traveling on Pennsylvania Street shall
stop at Main Street, Jefferson Street, Pearl Street and Polk Street.
   26.   Illinois Street. Vehicles traveling on Illinois Street shall stop at
Main Street.
   27.   Illinois Street. Vehicles traveling on Illinois Street shall stop at
Jefferson Street, Pearl Street, Polk Street, North Street and Breckenridge
Street.
   28.   Illinois Street. Vehicles traveling on Illinois Street shall stop at
Buchanan Street.
   29.   Illinois Street. Vehicles traveling on Illinois Street shall stop at
State Highway No. 2.
   30.   West Street. Vehicles traveling south on West Street shall stop at
Jackson Street.
   31.   West Street. Vehicles traveling on West Street shall stop at Main
Street.
   32.   Bent Street. Vehicles traveling on Bent Street shall stop at Jackson
Street.
   33.   Bent Street. Vehicles traveling north on Bent Street shall stop at
Main Street.
   34.   Bent Street. Vehicles traveling on Bent Street shall stop at State
Highway No. 2.
   35.   King Street. Vehicles traveling on King Street shall stop at Jackson
Street.
   36.   King Street. Vehicles traveling on King Street shall stop at Main
Street.
   37.   Tinder Street. Vehicles traveling on Tinder Street shall stop at
Jackson Street.
   38.   Tinder Street. Vehicles traveling on Tinder Street shall stop at Main
Street.
   39.   Orchard Street. Vehicles traveling on Orchard Street shall stop at
Main Street.
   40.   Randolph Street. Vehicles traveling on Randolph Street shall stop at
Main Street.
   41.   Jackson Street. Vehicles traveling on Jackson Street shall stop at
Orchard Street.
   42.   Jackson Street. Vehicles traveling on Jackson Street shall stop at
Illinois Street.
   43.   Jackson Street. Vehicles traveling on Jackson Street shall stop at
Madison Street and/or State Highway No. 148.
   44.   Jackson Street. Vehicles traveling east on Jackson Street shall stop
at State Street.
   45.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling on Washington Street shall stop
at Illinois Street.
   46.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling on Washington Street shall stop
at Madison Street and/or State Highway No. 148.
   47.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling east on Washington Street shall
stop at State Street.
   48.   Main Street. Vehicles traveling on Main Street shall stop at Madison
Street and/or State Highway No. 148.
   49.   Main Street. Vehicles traveling east on Main Street shall stop at
Randolph Street.
   50.   Jefferson Street. Vehicles traveling on Jefferson Street shall stop at
West Street.
   51.   Jefferson Street. Vehicles traveling on Jefferson Street shall stop at
Pennsylvania Street.
   52.   Jefferson Street. Vehicles traveling on Jefferson Street shall stop at
Madison Street and/or State Highway No. 148.
   53.   Pearl Street. Vehicles traveling on Pearl Street shall stop at
Illinois Street.
   54.   Pearl Street. Vehicles traveling on Pearl Street shall stop at
Pennsylvania Street.
   55.   Pearl Street. Vehicles traveling on Pearl Street shall stop at Madison
Street and/or State Highway No. 148.
   56.   Pearl Street. Vehicles traveling on Pearl Street shall stop at West
Street.
   57.   Polk Street. Vehicles traveling on Polk Street shall stop at West
Street.
   58.   Polk Street. Vehicles traveling on Polk Street shall stop at Illinois
Street.
   59.   Polk Street. Vehicles traveling on Polk Street shall stop at
Pennsylvania Street.
   60.   Polk Street. Vehicles traveling on Polk Street shall stop at Madison
Street and/or State Highway No. 148.
   61.   North Street. Vehicles traveling on North Street shall stop at Madison
Street and/or State Highway No. 148.
   62.   Buchanan Street. Vehicles traveling east on Buchanan Street shall stop
at Madison Street and/or State Highway No. 148.
   63.   Colfax Street. Vehicles traveling west on Colfax Street shall stop at
Madison Street and/or State Highway No. 148.
   64.   Lewis Street. Vehicles traveling on Lewis Street shall stop at Madison
Street and/or State Highway No. 148.
   65.   Grant Street. Vehicles traveling on Grant Street shall stop at Madison
Street and/or State Highway No. 148.
   66.   Grant Street. Vehicles traveling on Grant Street shall stop at State
Street.
   67.   Cole Street. Vehicles traveling north on Cole Street shall stop at
Pearl Street.
   68.   Edwin Street. Vehicles traveling south on Edwin Street shall stop at
Pearl Street.
   69.   Highway No. 49. Vehicles traveling south on Highway 49 shall stop on
right or left turn at Pearl Street.
   70.   Street on west side of Hannon Memorial Field. Vehicles traveling north
shall stop at Pearl Street.
   71.   Walker Street. Vehicles traveling east on Walker Street shall stop at
Highway 49.
   72.   North Street. Vehicles traveling east on North Street shall stop at
Highway 49.
   73.   County Road to Ben Scane Lake. Vehicles traveling south shall stop at
State Highway No. 2.
   74.   Oak Street. Vehicles traveling north on Oak Street shall stop at State
Highway No. 2.
   75.   Court Street. Vehicles traveling south on Court Street shall stop at
Grant Street.
   76.   West Street. Vehicles traveling on West Street shall stop at Pearl
Street and Breckenridge Street.
   77.   Cook Street. Vehicles traveling on Cook Street shall stop at Orchard
Street.
   78.   Pennsylvania Street. Vehicles traveling north on Pennsylvania Street
shall stop at North Street.
   79.   Randolph Street. Vehicles traveling north on Randolph Street shall
stop at Polk Street.
   80.   Truck Parking Lot. Both ends of the truck parking lot.
   81.   Court Avenue. Vehicles traveling north on Court Avenue shall stop at
Grant Street.
   82.   West Street. Vehicles traveling north on West Street shall stop at
Breckenridge Street.
65.02 FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following
designated four-way stop intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   The junction of State Street, north and south, and North Street, east
and west.
   2.   The junction of Central Street, north and south, and Grant Street, east
and west.
(Subsection 2 – Ord. 460 – Apr. 23)
65.03 SPECIAL YIELD REQUIRED.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall yield in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
— NONE —
65.04 SCHOOL STOPS.
   At the following school crossing zones every driver of a vehicle approaching
said zone shall bring the vehicle to a full stop at a point 10 feet from the
approach side of the crosswalk marked by an authorized school stop sign and
thereafter proceed in a careful and prudent manner until the vehicle shall have
passed through such school crossing zone.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.249)
   1.   Intersection of North Street and Madison Street (Iowa Highway No. 2).
65.05 STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when able to do
so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)
65.06 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.
   Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.
65.07 PEDESTRIANS' RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver
of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need
be, to so yield to a pedestrian or a person riding a bicycle crossing the
roadway within any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
(Section 65.07 – Ord. 466 – Mar. 25 Supp.)
CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
 
66.01 Temporary Embargo                  66.04 Load Limits on Bridges
66.02 Permits for Excess Size and Weight 66.05 Truck Routes
66.03 Load Limits Upon Certain Streets
 
66.01 TEMPORARY EMBARGO.
   If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of
deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic conditions that certain streets
will be seriously damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an
amount specified by the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets so
designated by such signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 & 472)
66.02 PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
   The Police Chief may, upon application and good cause being shown, issue a
special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move a
vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the
maximum specified by State law or the City over those streets or bridges named
in the permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for which the
City is responsible for maintenance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 & 321E)
66.03 LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs at
any time upon any of the following streets or parts of streets:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 & 475)
   1.   Jackson Street between Randolph and Madison Street.
   2.   North Street between State Street and Highway No. 148.
   3.   Colfax Street between Highway 148 and Central Avenue.
   4.   Hardin Street from Highway 148 to Illinois Street.
   5.   Jackson Street between Madison Street and State Street.
   6.   King Street between Cook Street and Polk Street.
   7.   Tinder Street between Cook Street and Polk Street.
   8.   Randolph Street between Cook Street and Polk Street.
   9.   Bent Street between Cook Street and Pollock Street and/or State Highway
No. 2.
   10.   West Street between Jackson Street and Buchanan Street.
   11.   Illinois Street between Cook Street and Pollock Street.
   12.   Polk Street between Randolph Street and Madison Street and between
Madison Street and State Street.
   13.   Buchanan Street between Bent Street and Madison Street.
   14.   Lewis Street between Madison Street and State Street.
   15.   Breckenridge Street between Bent Street and Illinois Street.
   16.   Grant Street between Madison Street and Court Avenue.
   17.   Dodge Street between Lewis Street and Cook Street.
   18.   Central Avenue between Grant Street and Cook Street.
   19.   Court Avenue between Grant Street and Jackson Street.
   20.   Main Street between Randolph Street and Madison Street and from
Madison Street to Dodge Street.
   21.   State Street from Highway No. 2 to Pearl Street.
   22.   Washington Street between Tinder Street and Madison Street.
   23.   Jefferson Street between Madison Street and State Street and between
Madison Street and West Street.
   24.   Pearl Street between Madison Street and West Street.
   25.   North Illinois.
   26.   Lincoln Street.
   27.   Lucas Street.
   28.   North Madison Street.
66.04 LOAD LIMITS ON BRIDGES.
   Where it has been determined that any City bridge has a capacity less than
the maximum permitted on the streets of the City, or on the street serving the
bridge, the Police Chief may cause to be posted and maintained signs on said
bridge and at suitable distances ahead of the entrances thereof to warn drivers
of such maximum load limits. No person shall drive upon said bridge any vehicle
weighing, loaded or unloaded, in excess of such posted limit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471)
66.05 TRUCK ROUTES.
   Designated truck routes are as follows:
   1.   East City Limits, Pearl Street to Madison Street.
   2.   Pearl Street south on State Street to City Limits.
   3.   Washington Street from Madison Street to State Street.
   4.   Jefferson Street from State Street to East City Limits.
   5.   Cole Street from Jefferson Street to Pearl Street.
CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS
 
67.01 Walking in Street 67.03 Pedestrian Crossing
67.02 Hitchhiking
 
67.01 WALKING IN STREET.
   Pedestrians shall at all times when walking on or along a street, walk on
the left side of the street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)
67.02 HITCHHIKING.
   No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)
67.03 PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)
CHAPTER 68
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
68.01 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.
   Upon the following streets and alleys, vehicular traffic, other than
permitted cross traffic, shall move only in the indicated direction when
appropriate signs are in place.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[4])
   1.   Main Street is eastbound only from Court Street to Dodge Street.
   2.   Illinois Street is northbound only from Polk Street to Buchanan Street.
CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS
69.01 Park Adjacent to Curb             69.10 Truck Parking Limited
69.02 Parking on One-Way Streets        69.11 Truck Parking Lot
69.03 Angle Parking                     69.12 Ambulance Personnel Parking
69.04 Angle Parking – Manner          69.13 Police Personnel Parking
69.05 Parking for Certain Purposes      69.14 Parking Limited to Fifteen
Illegal                                 Minutes
69.06 Parking Prohibited                69.15 Snow Removal
69.07 Persons With Disabilities Parking 69.16 Controlled Access Facilities
69.08 No Parking Zones                  69.17 Parking in Yards
69.09 All Night Parking Prohibited      69.18 Trailers
 
69.01 PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or
edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking
and vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.02 PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in
the case of angle parking.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.03 ANGLE PARKING.
   Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
   1.   Main Street, on the south side, from Dodge Street to State Street.
   2.   Main Street, on both sides, from Court Avenue to Dodge Street.
   3.   Court Avenue, on both sides, from Jefferson Street to Pearl Street.
   4.   Jefferson Street, on the north side, from Central Avenue to Court
Avenue.
   5.   Court Avenue on the east side, to the south side of the alley running
east and west on the east side, from Washington Street to Main Street.
   6.   Washington Street, on the north side 198 feet east from Court Avenue.
   7.   Central Avenue, on the east side, from the north side of the alley
running east and west, to Main Street between Washington Street and Main
Street.
   8.   Old State Highway 2 on the south side from Court Avenue to Central
Avenue.
69.04 ANGLE PARKING - MANNER.
   Upon those streets or portions of streets which have been signed or marked
for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an
angle to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as
indicated by such signs and markings. No part of any vehicle, or the load
thereon, when parked within a diagonal parking district, shall extend into the
roadway more than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right angles to the
adjacent curb or edge of roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.05 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon public property for more than 48 hours,
unless otherwise limited under the provisions of this chapter, or for any of
the following principal purposes:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])
   1.   Sale. Displaying such vehicle for sale.
   2.   Repairing. For lubricating, repairing or for commercial washing of such
vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency.
   3.   Advertising. Displaying advertising.
   4.   Merchandise Sales. Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a
duly established market place or when so authorized or licensed under this Code
of Ordinances.
69.06 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No one shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   1.   Crosswalk. On a crosswalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[5])
   2.   Center Parkway. On the center parkway or dividing area of any divided
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   3.   Mailboxes. Within 20 feet on either side of a mailbox which is so
placed and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from vehicles on the
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   4.   Sidewalks. On or across a sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[1])
   5.   Driveway. In front of a public or private driveway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[2])
   6.   Intersection. Within an intersection or within 10 feet of an
intersection of any street or alley.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[3])
   7.   Fire Hydrant. Within five feet of a fire hydrant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358 [4])
   8.   Stop Sign or Signal. Within 10 feet upon the approach to any flashing
beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358 [6])
   9.   Railroad Crossing. Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red
light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358 [8])
   10.   Fire Station. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within 75 feet of said entrance when properly sign posted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[9])
   11.   Excavations. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or
obstruction when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[10])
   12.   Double Parking. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked
at the edge or curb of a street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[11])
   13.   Hazardous Locations. When, because of restricted visibility or when
standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic, or
when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[13])
   14.   Churches, Nursing Homes and Other Buildings. A space of 50 feet is
hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre, auditorium,
hotel having more than 25 sleeping rooms, hospital, nursing home, taxicab
stand, bus depot, church, or other building where large assemblages of people
are being held, within which space, when clearly marked as such, no motor
vehicle shall be left standing, parked or stopped except in taking on or
discharging passengers or freight, and then only for such length of time as is
necessary for such purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)
   15.   Public Alleys. In any public alley within the fire limits of the City.
   16.   Private Alleys. In any private alley within the fire limits of the
City in such a manner that ingress or egress of fire apparatus to or from such
alley is blocked.
   17.   Ramps. In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public or
private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[15])
   18.   Area Between Lot Line and Curb Line. That area of the public way not
covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and the curb line, where
curbing has been installed.
   19.   In More Than One Space. In any designated parking space so that any
part of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
markings designating such space.
69.07 PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
   The following regulations shall apply to the establishment and use of
persons with disabilities parking spaces:
   1.   Establishment. Persons with disabilities parking spaces shall be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of Iowa
and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18. No unauthorized person shall establish
any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first obtaining
Council approval.
   2.   Improper Use. The following uses of a persons with disabilities parking
space, located on either public or private property, constitute improper use of
a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a violation of this Code
of Ordinances:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4[2])
      A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit;
      B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or
being transported in accordance with Section 321L.2[1b] of the Code of Iowa;
      C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under Section
321L.8 of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones. No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:
      A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must
comply with the requirements of Section 321L.2A(1) of the Code of Iowa when
utilizing a wheelchair parking cone.
      B.   A person shall not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone which is
properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A(1) of the Code of Iowa.
69.08 NO PARKING ZONES.
   No one shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any of the following
specifically designated no parking zones except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a peace
officer or traffic control signal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   1.   Bent Street on the east side from Pollock Street to Breckenridge
Street.
   2.   Bent Street on the east side from Main Street to Jackson Street.
   3.   Breckenridge Street on the south side from Illinois Street to Bent
Street.
   4.   Buchanan Street on the north side from Madison Street to Bent Street.
   5.   Central Avenue on the east side from Cook Street to Jackson Street.
   6.   Central Avenue on the east side from Pearl Street to Grant Street.
   7.   Colfax Street on the north side from Central Avenue to Madison Street.
   8.   Court Avenue on the east side from Washington Street to Grant Street.
   9.   Dodge Street on the east side from Lewis Street to Jefferson Street.
   10.   Dodge Street on the east side from Washington Street to Garmon Street.
   11.   Garmon Street on the north side from Central Avenue to State Street.
   12.   Grant Street on the north side from State Street to Madison Street.
   13.   Illinois Street on the east side from Cook Street to Polk Street.
   14.   Jackson Street on the north side from State Street to Randolph Street.
   15.   Jefferson Street on the south side from State Street to Central
Avenue.
   16.   Jefferson Street on the north side from Court Avenue to Madison
Street.
   17.   Jefferson Street on the north side from Pennsylvania Street to West
Street.
   18.   King Street on the east side from Cook Street to Polk Street.
   19.   Lewis Street on the north side from State Street to Madison Street.
   20.   Lone Mountain Street on the north side from Court Avenue to Central
Avenue.
   21.   Lone Mountain Street on the north side from Illinois Street to Orchard
Street.
   22.   Madison Street on both sides from Hardin Street to Pollock Street.
   23.   Main Street on the north side from Madison Street to Randolph Street.
   24.   North Street on the north side from Madison Street to Pennsylvania
Street, between 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on school days.
   25.   North Street on the north side from West Street to Illinois Street.
   26.   North Street on the north side from Madison Street to State Street.
   27.   Orchard Street on the east side from Cook Street to Main Street.
   28.   Pennsylvania Street on the east side from Washington Street to North
Street.
   29.   Polk Street on the north side from State Street to West Street.
   30.   Pollock Street on both sides from Bent Street to State Street.
   31.   Randolph Street on the east side from Polk Street to Jackson Street.
   32.   State Street on the east side from Jefferson Street to Grant Street.
   33.   Tinder Street on the east side from Cook Street to Polk Street.
   34.   Washington Street on the north side from Court Avenue to Tinder
Street.
   35.   West Street on the east side from Buchanan Street to Main Street.
   36.   Pearl Street, east from Madison Street to the City limits on both
sides of the street, with the exception of the south side from Court Avenue to
Central Avenue.
   37.   State Street on both sides from Main Street to Cook Street.
   38.   State Street on the east side from Jefferson Street to Main Street.
   39.   Illinois Street on the east side from Buchanan Street to State Highway
No. 2.
   40.   Washington Street on the north side from State Street to Dodge Street.
   41.   Court Avenue on the east side from Lone Mountain Street to Washington
Street.
   42.   Court Avenue on the east side from Pearl Street to Grant Street.
   43.   North Street on the north side between Madison Street and Pennsylvania
Street between 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on school days.
   44.   Polk Street on the south side between Madison Street and Pennsylvania
Street between 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on school days.
   45.   At 507 Central Avenue in front of garage door.
   46.   Illinois Street from North Street to Breckenridge Street between 8:00
a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on school days.
   47.   Pearl Street on the north side from Madison Street to West Street.
   48.   Jefferson Street on the south side from Madison Street to Pennsylvania
Street.
   49.   Pennsylvania Street on the west side from the crosswalk at North
Street proceeding south 160 feet to the north side of the driveway at the
southeast corner of the school building.
   50.   Illinois Street on the east side from intersection of North Street
proceeding north to a line directly across from the south side of the
intersection of Breckenridge Street.
69.09 ALL NIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person, except physicians or other persons on emergency calls, shall park
a vehicle on any of the following named streets for a period of time longer
than 30 minutes between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any day that
snow removal is required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])
   1.   Main Street from Court Avenue to State Street.
   2.   Washington Street from Court Avenue to Dodge Street.
   3.   Court Avenue from Washington Street to the alley north of Main Street.
   4.   Central Avenue from Washington Street to the alley north of Main
Street.
   5.   Dodge Street from Washington Street to the alley north of Main Street.
69.10 TRUCK PARKING LIMITED.
   No person shall park a motor truck, semi-trailer, or other motor vehicle
with trailer attached in violation of the following regulations. The provisions
of this section shall not apply to pick-up, light delivery or panel delivery
trucks.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])
   1.   Business District. Excepting only when such vehicles are actually
engaged in the delivery or receiving of merchandise or cargo within the
prohibited area, no person shall park or leave unattended such vehicle, on any
of the following designated streets. When actually receiving or delivering
merchandise or cargo such vehicle shall be stopped or parked in a manner which
will not interfere with other traffic.
      A.   On the south side of Pearl Street from Court Avenue to Central
Avenue.
      B.   On Central Avenue from Pearl Street to Jefferson Street, on either
side of the street.
      C.   On the west side of Central Avenue from Jefferson Street to a point
50 feet north of Jefferson Street.
      D.   On the east side of Central Avenue from Pearl Street to a point 45
feet south of Pearl Street.
      E.   On Jefferson Street from State Street to Madison Street.
   2.   Unattached Semi-Trailer. No unattached semi-trailer shall be parked
upon any street having brick, asphaltic concrete or oiled surface.
69.11 TRUCK PARKING LOT.
   The City provides a parking area for the off-street parking of motor trucks
and semi-trailer vehicles. Every driver/owner shall have a clearly marked space
at such parking lot and shall provide his or her own electric service as
needed. It is the duty and responsibility of the driver/owner to keep the area
around and on such parking spaces clean and well maintained, free of all trash,
litter, old tires, oil containers, old rags, rope and weeds. All flatbed
trailers parked at the truck parking lot shall be fully tarped or covered when
parked with a load of any material that may be blown or discarded onto or
around the truck parking lot. No driver/owner shall park or abandon any junk
vehicle or junk machinery at the truck parking lot. Any person who violates the
provisions of this section is guilty of a simple misdemeanor.
69.12 AMBULANCE PERSONNEL PARKING.
   The following parking zone is designated parking for Bedford Ambulance
personnel only:
   1.   The south side of Jefferson Street from Court Avenue to 84 feet west.
69.13 POLICE PERSONNEL PARKING.
   The following parking zone is designated parking for Bedford Police
Department personnel only:
   1.   The south side of Jefferson Street from Court Avenue to 105 feet east.
This does not include the previously designated persons with disabilities
parking space within this area.
69.14 PARKING LIMITED TO FIFTEEN MINUTES.
   It is unlawful to park any vehicle for a continuous period of more than 15
minutes on the following streets in the parking stalls marked for such time
limit from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, and 6:00 a.m. to 10:
00 p.m. on Saturday:
   1.   The east side and west side of Court Avenue from Washington Street to
Jefferson Street.
   2.   The north side and south side of Main Street from Madison Street to
Dodge Street.
   3.   The east side and west side of Central Avenue from Washington Street to
Jefferson Street.
   4.   The east side of Illinois Street from North Street to Breckenridge
Street.
   5.   The west side of Illinois Street beginning at a point 113 feet south of
the intersection of Illinois Street and Breckenridge Street and continuing
south 61 feet.
69.15 SNOW REMOVAL.
   No person shall park, abandon or leave unattended any vehicle on any public
street, alley, or City-owned off-street parking area during snow removal
operations unless the snow has been removed or plowed from said street, alley
or parking area and the snow has ceased to fall.
(Code of Iowa, 321.236[1])
69.16 CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES.
   Parking restrictions on controlled access facilities are as specified in
Chapter 140 of this Code of Ordinances.
69.17 PARKING IN YARDS.
   1.   Definitions. For use in this section, the following definitions are
given:
      A.   “Front yard” means a yard extending across the full width of the lot
and measured between the front lot line and the building or any projection
thereof; on corner lots the front yard is considered the yard adjacent to the
street upon which the lot has its least dimension.
      B.   “Vehicle” includes (but is not limited to) motorized vehicles,
travel trailers, camping trailers and boats.
   2.   Parking Prohibited in Front Yard. No person shall park, store or permit
the parking or storage of any vehicle in the front yard of a one- or two-family
dwelling for more than 48 consecutive hours except on a driveway.
   3.   Parking Prohibited in Rear and Side Yards. No person shall park, store,
or permit the parking or storage of more than four vehicles in the combined
side and rear yards of a one- or two-family dwelling unless such parking or
storage is on a driveway or in an enclosed building or garage.
   4.   Driveway Parking Restricted. No one- or two-family dwelling with a one-
or two-car garage shall have more than 25 percent of the front yard used for
driveway parking purposes. However, this restriction does not prohibit the
construction of a 20-foot-wide driveway. Restrictions governing one- and two-
family dwellings that have a three-car garage or larger shall be subject to the
discretion of the Building Official.
69.18 TRAILERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to dock, park, or allow to remain on a public
street any trailer for more than 48 hours. Exceptions may be made for certain
purposes
CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
 
70.01 Arrest or Citation            70.04 Parking Violations: Vehicle
                                    Unattended
70.02 Scheduled Violations          70.05 Presumption in Reference to Illegal
                                    Parking
70.03 Parking Violations: Alternate 70.06 Impounding Vehicles
 
70.01 ARREST OR CITATION.
   Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:
   1.   Immediate Arrest. Immediately arrest such person and take such person
before a local magistrate; or
   2.   Issue Citation. Without arresting the person, prepare in quintuplicate
a combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the Iowa Commissioner
of Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint utilizing a State-
approved computerized device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 & 321.485)
70.02 SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
   For violations of the Traffic Code that are designated by Section 805.8A of
the Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of
those violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 & 805.8A)
70.03 PARKING VIOLATIONS: ALTERNATE.
   Uncontested violations of parking restrictions imposed by this Code of
Ordinances shall be charged upon a simple notice of a fine payable at the
office of the City Clerk. The fine for each violation charged under a simple
notice of a fine shall be in the amount of $25.00 for all violations except
improper use of a persons with disabilities parking permit. If such fine is not
paid within 30 days, it shall be increased by $5.00. The fine for improper use
of a persons with disabilities parking permit is $100.00.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1b] & 321L.4[2])
70.04 PARKING VIOLATIONS: VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
   When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code,
and the driver is not present, the notice of fine or citation as herein
provided shall be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
70.05 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred shall be raised by proof that:
   1.   Described Vehicle. The particular vehicle described in the information
was parked in violation of the Traffic Code; and
   2.   Registered Owner. The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.
70.06 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   A peace officer is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, a
vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking lot or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the City, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
   1.   Disabled Vehicle. When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   2.   Illegally Parked Vehicle. When any vehicle is left unattended and is so
illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   3.   Snow Removal. When any vehicle is left parked in violation of a ban on
parking during snow removal operations.
   4.   Parked Over Limited Time Period. When any vehicle is left parked for a
continuous period in violation of any limited parking time. If the owner can be
located, the owner shall be given an opportunity to remove the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   5.   Costs. In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or
driver of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and
storage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
CHAPTER 75
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND SNOWMOBILES
 
75.01 Purpose                  75.05 Operation of ATVs and UTVs
75.02 Definitions              75.06 Negligence
75.03 General Regulations      75.07 Accident Reports
75.04 Operation of Snowmobiles  
 
75.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of all-terrain
vehicles and snowmobiles within the City.
75.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than three and not more than six non-highway tires, that is limited in engine
displacement to less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to
less than 1,200 pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled
by the operator and handlebars for steering control.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   2.   “Off-road motorcycle” means a two-wheeled motor vehicle that has a seat
or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering
control and that is intended by the manufacturer for use on natural terrain.
“Off-road motorcycle” includes a motorcycle that was originally issued a
certificate of title and registered for highway use under Chapter 321 of the
Code of Iowa, but which contains design features that enable operation over
natural terrain. An operator of an off-road motorcycle is also subject to the
provisions of this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   3.   “Off-road utility vehicle” or “UTV” means a motorized vehicle, with not
less than four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized tracks,
that has a seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to be straddled
by the operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for control. “Off-road
utility vehicle” or “UTV” includes the following vehicles:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
      A.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 1” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less and a width of 50 inches or less.
      B.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 2” includes vehicles, other than
Type 1 vehicles, with a total dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less and a width of
65 inches or less.
      C.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 3” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of more than 2,000 pounds or a width of more than 65 inches, or
both.
   An operator of an UTV is also subject to the provisions of this chapter
governing the operation of ATVs.
(Subsection 3 – Ord. 458 – Oct. 22 Supp.)
   4.   “Snowmobile” means a motorized vehicle that weighs less than 1,000
pounds, that uses sled-type runners or skis, endless belt-type tread with a
width of 48 inches or less, or any combination of runners, skis, or tread, and
is designed for travel on snow or ice. “Snowmobile” does not include an all-
terrain vehicle that has been altered or equipped with runners, skis, belt-type
tracks, or treads.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.1)
75.03 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   No person shall operate an ATV, off-road motorcycle or off-road utility
vehicle within the City in violation of Chapter 321I of the Code of Iowa or a
snowmobile within the City in violation of the provisions of Chapter 321G of
the Code of Iowa or in violation of rules established by the Natural Resource
Commission of the Department of Natural Resources governing their registration,
equipment and manner of operation.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 321G & Ch. 321I)
75.04 OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
   The operators of snowmobiles shall comply with the following restrictions as
to where snowmobiles may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets. Snowmobiles shall be operated only upon streets that have not
been plowed during the snow season and on such other streets as may be
designated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4a])
   2.   Exceptions. Snowmobiles may be operated on prohibited streets only
under the following circumstances:
      A.   Emergencies. Snowmobiles may be operated on any street in an
emergency during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the
roadway renders travel by conventional motor vehicles impractical.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4c])
      B.   Direct Crossing. Snowmobiles may make a direct crossing of a
prohibited street provided all of the following occur:
         (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
         (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
street;
         (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
         (4)   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such street with another street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[2])
   3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on an
operating railroad right-of-way. A snowmobile may be driven directly across a
railroad right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any
other provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.13[1h])
   4.   Trails. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on all-terrain vehicle trails
except where so designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4f])
   5.   Parks and Other City Land. Snowmobiles shall not be operated in any
park, playground or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City. A snowmobile shall not be operated on any City land
without a snow cover of at least one-tenth of one inch.
   6.   Sidewalk or Parking. Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking” except for
purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized by this chapter.
75.05 OPERATION OF ATVS AND UTVS.
   The operators of ATVs and UTVs shall comply with the following restrictions
as to where ATVs and UTVs may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets. ATVs and UTVs may be operated on roadways or highways in
accordance with Section 321.234A of the Code of Iowa. A City may regulate the
operation of registered ATVs and UTVs and may designate streets under the
jurisdiction of the City within its corporate limits, and two-lane primary and
secondary road extensions in the City, which may be used for the operation of
such vehicles. In designating such streets, the City may authorize ATVs and
UTVs to stop at service stations or convenience stores along a designated
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[1 and 3])
   2.   Trails. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated on snowmobile trails except
where designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[4])
   3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated on an
operating railroad right-of-way. An ATV or UTV may be driven directly across a
railroad right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any
other provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.14[1h])
   4.   Parks and Other City Land. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated in any
park, playground, or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City.
   5.   Sidewalk or Parking. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated upon the
public sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and
the sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking.”
   6.   Direct Crossing. An ATV or UTV may make a direct crossing of a highway
that is not part of the interstate road system provided all of the following
occur:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[5])
      A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing.
      B.   The ATV or UTV is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the highway.
      C.   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard.
      D.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another public street or highway.
      E.   The crossing is made from a street, roadway, or highway on which the
ATV or UTV is authorized to operate to a street, roadway, or highway on which
such vehicle is authorized to operate.
(Section 75.05 – Ord. 458 – Oct. 22 Supp.)
75.06 NEGLIGENCE.
   The owner and operator of an ATV or snowmobile are liable for any injury or
damage occasioned by the negligent operation of the ATV or snowmobile. The
owner of an ATV or snowmobile shall be liable for any such injury or damage
only if the owner was the operator of the ATV or snowmobile at the time the
injury or damage occurred or if the operator had the owner’s consent to operate
the ATV or snowmobile at the time the injury or damage occurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.18 & 321I.19)
75.07 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   Whenever an ATV or snowmobile is involved in an accident resulting in injury
or death to anyone or property damage amounting to $1,500.00 or more, either
the operator or someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify a law
enforcement officer and shall file an accident report, in accordance with State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.10 & 321I.11)
CHAPTER 76
BICYCLE REGULATIONS
 
76.01 Scope of Regulations            76.08 Riding on Sidewalks
76.02 Traffic Code Applies            76.09 Towing
76.03 Double Riding Restricted        76.10 Improper Riding
76.04 Two Abreast Limit               76.11 Parking
76.05 Speed                           76.12 Equipment Requirements
76.06 Emerging from Alley or Driveway 76.13 Special Penalty
76.07 Carrying Articles
 
76.01 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street
or upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to
those exceptions stated herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.02 TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of the State declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the Traffic Code of the City applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except as to those provisions that by their nature can have no
application. Whenever such person dismounts from a bicycle, the person shall be
subject to all regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234)
76.03 DOUBLE RIDING RESTRICTED.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234[3 and 4])
76.04 TWO ABREAST LIMIT.
   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles. All bicycles ridden on the roadway shall be kept to the right and
shall be operated as near as practicable to the right-hand edge of the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.05 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.06 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said
sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.07 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
that prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.08 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   The following provisions apply to riding bicycles on sidewalks:
   1.   Business District. No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within the Business District, as defined in Section
60.02(1) of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
   2.   Other Locations. When signs are erected on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, no person shall
disobey the signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
   3.   Yield Right-of-Way. Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.09 TOWING.
   It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to be towed or to tow any
other vehicle upon the streets of the City unless the vehicle is manufactured
for such use.
76.10 IMPROPER RIDING.
   No person shall ride a bicycle in an irregular or reckless manner such as
zigzagging, stunting, speeding, or otherwise so as to disregard the safety of
the operator or others.
76.11 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.12 EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Every person riding a bicycle shall be responsible for providing and using
equipment as provided herein:
   1.   Lamps Required. Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front emitting a white light visible from a
distance of at least 300 feet to the front and with a lamp on the rear
exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 300 feet to the rear, except
that a red reflector on the rear, of a type that is visible from all distances
from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper
beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle, may be used in lieu of a rear light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.397)
   2.   Brakes Required. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake that will
enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.13 SPECIAL PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
scheduled fine for bicyclists or standard penalty provided for violations of
this Code of Ordinances, allow the person’s bicycle to be impounded by the City
for not less than five days for the first offense, 10 days for a second offense
and 30 days for a third offense.
CHAPTER 77
ROLLER SKATES, SKATEBOARDS,
AND IN-LINE SKATES
 
77.01 Prohibited Use 77.03 Right-of-Way
77.02 Restricted Use 77.04 Penalty
 
77.01 PROHIBITED USE.
   The use of roller skates, skateboards, and in-line skates or similar
devices, including scooters powered by either electric or gas motors which are
not capable of exceeding 20 m.p.h. and resemble long skateboards with
handlebars, is prohibited in the following places:
   1.   On any roadway.
   2.   On the sidewalk in the downtown area, which shall be defined as that
portion of the business district bounded on the north by Pearl Street, on the
south by Washington Street, on the west by Madison Street, and on the east by
State Street.
77.02 RESTRICTED USE.
   The use of roller skates, skateboards, and in-line skates or similar devices
including scooters powered by either electric or gas motors which are not
capable of exceeding 20 m.p.h. and resemble long skateboards with handlebars in
places not prohibited shall be done only in a careful and prudent manner and
not in a manner so as to cause or be likely to cause danger or injury to any
person or property.
77.03 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The user or passenger of any such roller skates, skateboards, or in-line
skates or similar devices including scooters powered by either electric or gas
motors which are not capable of exceeding 20 m.p.h. and resemble long
skateboards with handlebars shall give the right-of-way to any pedestrian,
motor vehicle, bicycle, or any other user of any sidewalk, street, or other
public place and shall not interfere with the proper use of any sidewalk,
street, or other public place by any other person.
77.04 PENALTY.
   Any person in violation of any provision of this chapter is guilty of an
offense and such person’s roller skates, skateboard, or in-line skates or
similar devices including scooters powered by either electric or gas motors
which are not capable of exceeding 20 m.p.h. and resemble long skateboards with
handlebars shall be impounded for not less than five days for the first
offense, 10 days for the second offense, and 30 days for the third and
subsequent offenses.
CHAPTER 80
ABANDONED VEHICLES
 
80.01 Definitions                     80.06 Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
80.02 Authority to Take Possession of 80.07 Disposal of Totally Inoperable
Abandoned Vehicles                    Vehicles
80.03 Notice by Mail                  80.08 Proceeds from Sales
80.04 Notification in Newspaper       80.09 Duties of Demolisher
80.05 Fees for Impoundment
 
80.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[1] & Sec. 321.90)
   1.   “Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:
      A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than 24 hours and lacks current registration plates or two or more wheels or
other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
      B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more
than 24 hours.
      C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked or placed on private
property without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property
for more than 24 hours.
      D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of 10 days. However, a police
authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the 10-day period by
commencing the notification process.
      E.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police authority
to create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
      F.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Section 321J.4B of the
Code of Iowa by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the impoundment
fees after notification by the person or agency responsible for carrying out
the impoundment order.
   2.   “Demolisher” means a person licensed under Chapter 321H of the Code of
Iowa whose business it is to convert a vehicle to junk, processed scrap or
scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck, or dismantle vehicles.
   3.   “Garage keeper” means any operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle storage facility, or establishment for the servicing, repair, or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
   4.   “Police authority” means the Iowa State Patrol or any law enforcement
agency of a county or city.
80.02 AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   A police authority, upon the authority’s own initiative or upon the request
of any other authority having the duties of control of highways or traffic,
shall take into custody an abandoned vehicle on public property and may take
into custody any abandoned vehicle on private property. The police authority
may employ its own personnel, equipment, and facilities or hire a private
entity, equipment, and facilities for the purpose of removing, preserving,
storing, or disposing of abandoned vehicles. A property owner or other person
in control of private property may employ a private entity that is a garage
keeper to dispose of an abandoned vehicle, and the private entity may take into
custody the abandoned vehicle without a police authority’s initiative. If a
police authority employs a private entity to dispose of abandoned vehicles, the
police authority shall provide the private entity with the names and addresses
of the registered owners, all lienholders of record, and any other known
claimant to the vehicle or the personal property found in the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[2])
80.03 NOTICE BY MAIL.
   The police authority or private entity that takes into custody an abandoned
vehicle shall notify, within 20 days, by certified mail, the last known
registered owner of the vehicle, all lienholders of record, and any other known
claimant to the vehicle or to personal property found in the vehicle, addressed
to the parties’ last known addresses of record, that the abandoned vehicle has
been taken into custody. Notice shall be deemed given when mailed. The notice
shall describe the year, make, model and vehicle identification number of the
vehicle, describe the personal property found in the vehicle, set forth the
location of the facility where the vehicle is being held, and inform the
persons receiving the notice of their right to reclaim the vehicle and personal
property within 10 days after the effective date of the notice upon payment of
all towing, preservation, and storage charges resulting from placing the
vehicle in custody and upon payment of the costs of the notice. The notice
shall also state that the failure of the owner, lienholders or claimants to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
time provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner, lienholders and claimants
of all right, title, claim and interest in the vehicle or personal property and
that failure to reclaim the vehicle or personal property is deemed consent to
the sale of the vehicle at a public auction or disposal of the vehicle to a
demolisher and to disposal of the personal property by sale or destruction. If
the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a private entity without a
police authority’s initiative, the notice shall state that the private entity
may claim a garage keeper’s lien as described in Section 321.90 of the Code of
Iowa, and may proceed to sell or dispose of the vehicle. If the abandoned
vehicle was taken into custody by a police authority or by a private entity
hired by a police authority, the notice shall state that any person claiming
rightful possession of the vehicle or personal property who disputes the
planned disposition of the vehicle or property by the police authority or
private entity or of the assessment of fees and charges provided by this
section may ask for an evidentiary hearing before the police authority to
contest those matters. If the persons receiving notice do not ask for a hearing
or exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
10-day reclaiming period, the owner, lienholders or claimants shall no longer
have any right, title, claim, or interest in or to the vehicle or the personal
property. A court in any case in law or equity shall not recognize any right,
title, claim, or interest of the owner, lienholders or claimants after the
expiration of the 10-day reclaiming period.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.04 NOTIFICATION IN NEWSPAPER.
   If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and
addresses of the last registered owner and all lienholders, notice by one
publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of notice
under Section
80.03. The published notice may contain multiple listings of abandoned vehicles
and personal property but shall be published within the same time requirements
and contain the same information as prescribed for mailed notice in Section
80.03.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3b])
80.05 FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   The owner, lienholder, or claimant shall pay $3.00 if claimed within five
days of impounding, plus $1.00 for each additional day within the reclaiming
period plus towing charges, if stored by the City, or towing and storage fees,
if stored in a public garage, whereupon said vehicle shall be released. The
amount of towing charges, and the rate of storage charges by privately owned
garages, shall be established by such facility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.06 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided herein, the
police authority or private entity shall make a determination as to whether or
not the motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways, and shall
dispose of the motor vehicle in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.07 DISPOSAL OF TOTALLY INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   The City or any person upon whose property or in whose possession is found
any abandoned motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle
whose title certificate is faulty, lost or destroyed, may dispose of such motor
vehicle to a demolisher for junk, without a title and without notification
procedures, if such motor vehicle lacks an engine or two or more wheels or
other structural part which renders the vehicle totally inoperable. The police
authority shall give the applicant a certificate of authority. The applicant
shall then apply to the County Treasurer for a junking certificate and shall
surrender the certificate of authority in lieu of the certificate of title.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[2e])
80.08 PROCEEDS FROM SALES.
   Proceeds from the sale of any abandoned vehicle shall be applied to the
expense of auction, cost of towing, preserving, storing, and notification
required, in accordance with State law. Any balance shall be held for the owner
of the motor vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days, and then shall be
deposited in the State Road Use Tax Fund. Where the sale of any vehicle fails
to realize the amount necessary to meet costs the police authority shall apply
for reimbursement from the Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.09 DUTIES OF DEMOLISHER.
   Any demolisher who purchases or otherwise acquires an abandoned motor
vehicle for junk shall junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or otherwise demolish
such motor vehicle. A demolisher shall not junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or
demolish a vehicle until the demolisher has obtained the junking certificate
issued for the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[3a])
CHAPTER 81
GOLF CARTS
 
81.01 Purpose                         81.07 Equipment
81.02 Definitions                     81.08 Hours of Operation
81.03 Traffic Code Applies            81.09 Prohibited Streets
81.04 Permit Required                 81.10 Unlawful Operations
81.05 Proof of Liability of Insurance 81.11 Penalty
81.06 Driver’s License Required      
 
81.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to permit the operation of golf carts on
certain streets in the City, as authorized by Section 321.247 of the Code of
Iowa, as amended. This chapter applies whenever a golf cart is operated on any
street or alley, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
81.02 DEFINITIONS.
   “Golf cart” means a cart typically used for the transport of persons and
equipment upon a golf course, either by electric powered or gas powered with an
engine displacement of less than 351 cubic centimeters, and a total dry weight
of less than 800 pounds.
(Ord. 459 – Oct. 22 Supp.)
81.03 TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.
   1.   Every person operating a golf cart upon a street or alley shall be
granted all the rights and privileges and shall be subject to all the duties
and obligations applicable to the driver of a vehicle and to the laws of the
State of Iowa declaring the rules of the road applicable to the driver of the
vehicle, except as to those provisions which by their nature can have no
application.
   2.   Golf cart operators shall observe all State and local traffic control
regulations and devices.
81.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (Repealed by Ordinance No. 459 - Oct. 22 Supp.)
81.05 PROOF OF LIABILITY OF INSURANCE.
   Any person operating a golf cart upon any City street shall have proof of
liability insurance with minimum limits of $100,000 each person, and $300,000
for each accident, with the golf cart whenever said golf cart is in operation
on City streets.   
(Ord. 459 – Oct. 22 Supp.)
81.06 DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person operating a golf cart upon any City street shall have in his or
her possession a valid motor vehicle license issued by the State.
81.07 EQUIPMENT.
   Golf carts operated upon City streets shall be equipped with at minimum the
following safety features:
   1.   A slow moving vehicle sign.
   2.   A bicycle safety flag, the bottom of which shall extend above the top
of the golf cart.
   3.   Adequate brakes.
   4.   Rear view mirror on driver’s side.
81.08 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts shall be operated only from sunrise to sunset. Golf carts shall
not be operated during inclement weather when visibility is reduced or impaired
by weather, smoke, fog, or other conditions or at any time there is
insufficient light to clearly see a person or vehicle on a roadway at a
distance of 500 feet.
81.09 PROHIBITED STREETS.
   Golf carts may only be operated on streets with the exception that golf
carts shall not be operated upon the following streets except to cross said
streets at a 90 degree angle:
   1.   Iowa Highway 2
   2.   Iowa Highway 148
   3.   Taylor County Highway 44
81.10 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   1.   No golf cart shall be operated or parked upon any City sidewalk or
trail.
   2.   No golf cart shall be operated within the City at speeds greater than
20 miles per hour.
   3.   No golf cart shall be operated while under the influence of alcoholic
beverages, narcotics, or other substances which impair a driver.
   4.   No golf cart shall be operated upon private property without the
express consent of the owner thereof.
   5.   No items shall be towed by a golf cart.
   6.   No person shall operate a golf cart in a careless, reckless, or
negligent manner so as to endanger the person or property of another or to
cause injury or damage thereto.
81.11 PENALTY.
   Failure to abide by the provisions of this chapter may result in the
suspension or revocation of golf cart operating privileges of the owner and/or
operator of the golf cart. In addition to the suspension or revocation of a
permit, a person who violates this chapter is guilty of a simple misdemeanor
punishable as a scheduled violation under Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
90.01 BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The management of the City’s Waterworks Utility is the responsibility of the
Utility Board of Trustees established and operated as described in
Chapter 24 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
 
95.01 Purpose                   95.06 Service Outside the City
95.02 Definitions               95.07 Right of Entry
95.03 Superintendent            95.08 Use of Easements
95.04 Prohibited Acts           95.09 Special Penalties
95.05 Sewer Connection Required
 
95.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to
Sanitary Sewers is to establish rules and regulations governing the treatment
and disposal of sanitary sewage within the City in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in these chapters, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “B.O.D.” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity of
oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20 degrees C, expressed in milligrams per
liter or parts per million.
   2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
   3.   “Building sewer” means that part of the horizontal piping from the
building wall to its connection with the main sewer or the primary treatment
portion of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system conveying the
drainage of one building site.
   4.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface run-off and
sewage.
   5.   “Customer” means any person responsible for the production of domestic,
commercial, or industrial waste that is directly or indirectly discharged into
the public sewer system.
   6.   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage,
and sale of produce.
   7.   “Industrial wastes” means the liquid wastes from industrial
manufacturing processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   8.   “Inspector” means the person duly authorized by the Council to inspect
and approve the installation of building sewers and their connections to the
public sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged therefrom.
   9.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch,
lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   10.   “On-site wastewater treatment and disposal system” means all equipment
and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment,
and disposal of wastewater from four or fewer dwelling units or other
facilities serving the equivalent of 15 persons (1,500 gpd) or less.
   11.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen
ions in grams per liter of solution.
   12.   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting
properties have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   13.   “Sanitary sewage” means sewage discharging from the sanitary
conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office
buildings, factories, or institutions, and free from storm, surface water, and
industrial waste.
   14.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer that carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   15.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments,
together with such ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   16.   “Sewage treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and
structures used for treating sewage.
   17.   “Sewage works” or “sewage system” means all facilities for collecting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
   18.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   19.   “Sewer service charges” means any and all charges, rates or fees
levied against and payable by customers, as consideration for the servicing of
said customers by said sewer system.
   20.   “Slug” means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste that
in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for
any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average
24-hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   21.   “Storm drain” or “storm sewer” means a sewer that carries storm and
surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   22.   “Superintendent” means the Superintendent of sewage works and/or of
water pollution control of the City or any authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.
   23.   “Suspended solids” means solids that either float on the surface of,
or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and that are removable
by laboratory filtering.
   24.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
95.03 SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Superintendent shall exercise the following powers and duties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Operation and Maintenance. Operate and maintain the City sewage system.
   2.   Inspection and Tests. Conduct necessary inspections and tests to assure
compliance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
   3.   Records. Maintain a complete and accurate record of all sewers, sewage
connections and manholes constructed showing the location and grades thereof.
95.04 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:
   1.   Damage Sewer System. Maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment that is a part of the sewer system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
   2.   Surface Run-Off or Groundwater. Connect a roof downspout, sump pump,
exterior foundation drain, areaway drain, or other source of surface run-off or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   3.   Manholes. Open or enter any manhole of the sewer system, except by
authority of the Superintendent.
   4.   Objectionable Wastes. Place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the City, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable waste.
   5.   Septic Tanks. Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage
except as provided in these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
   6.   Untreated Discharge. Discharge to any natural outlet within the City,
or in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes,
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
95.05 SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owners of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in
the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer, are hereby required
to install, at such owner’s expense, suitable toilet facilities therein and a
building sewer connecting such facilities directly with the proper public
sewer, and to maintain the same all in accordance with the provisions of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters, such compliance to be completed within 30 days after
date of official notice from the City to do so. Billing for sanitary sewer
service will begin the date of official notice to connect to the public sewer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
95.06 SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   The owners of property outside the corporate limits of the City so situated
that it may be served by the City sewer system may apply to the Council for
permission to connect to the public sewer upon the terms and conditions
stipulated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 & 3])
95.07 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
The Superintendent or representatives shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
95.08 USE OF EASEMENTS.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
95.09 SPECIAL PENALTIES.
   The following special penalty provisions shall apply to violations of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters:
   1.   Notice of Violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
these chapters except Subsections 1, 3, and 4 of Section
95.04, shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   2.   Continuing Violations. Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in Subsection 1 hereof shall be in violation
of this Code of Ordinances. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   3.   Liability Imposed. Any person violating any of the provisions of these
chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the City by reason of such violation.
CHAPTER 96
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
 
96.01 Permit                  96.06 Interceptors Required
96.02 Tapping Fee             96.07 Sewer Tap
96.03 Plumber Required        96.08 Inspection Required
96.04 Excavations             96.09 Property Owner’s Responsibility
96.05 Connection Requirements 96.10 Abatement of Violations
 
96.01 PERMIT.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the City. The application for the permit
shall set forth the location and description of the property to be connected
with the sewer system and the purpose for which the sewer is to be used, and
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information
considered pertinent. The permit shall require the owner to complete
construction and connection of the building sewer to the public sewer within 60
days after the issuance of the permit, except that when a property owner makes
sufficient showing that due to conditions beyond the owner’s control or
peculiar hardship, such time period is inequitable or unfair, an extension of
time within which to comply with the provisions herein may be granted. Any
sewer connection permit may be revoked at any time for a violation of these
chapters.
96.02 TAPPING FEE.
   The person who makes the application shall pay a tapping fee in the amount
of $200.00 to the Clerk.
96.03 PLUMBER REQUIRED.
   All installations of building sewers and connections to the public sewer
shall be made by a State-licensed plumber.
96.04 EXCAVATIONS.
   All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required for the installation
of a building sewer shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the
State Plumbing Code and the provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
96.05 CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Any connection with a public sanitary sewer must be made under the direct
supervision of the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
   1.   Old Building Sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test conducted by
the owner and observed by the Superintendent, to meet all requirements of this
chapter.
   2.   Separate Building Sewers. A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every occupied building; except where one building stands
at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or
can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court,
yard, or driveway. In such cases the building sewer from the front building may
be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building
sewer.
   3.   Installation. The installation and connection of the building sewer to
the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the State Plumbing Code
and applicable rules and regulations of the City. All such connections shall be
made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
   4.   Water Lines. When possible, building sewers should be laid at least 10
feet horizontally from a water service. The horizontal separation may be less,
provided the water service line is located at one side and at least 12 inches
above the top of the building sewer.
   5.   Size. Building sewers shall be sized for the peak expected sewage flow
from the building with a minimum building sewer size of four inches.
   6.   Alignment and Grade. All building sewers shall be laid to a straight
line to meet the following:
      A.   Recommended grade at one-fourth inch per foot.
      B.   Minimum grade of one-eighth inch per foot.
      C.   Minimum velocity of two feet per second with the sewer half full.
      D.   Any deviation in alignment or grade shall be made only with the
written approval of the Superintendent and shall be made only with approved
fittings.
   7.   Depth. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. The depth of cover above the
sewer shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
   8.   Sewage Lifts. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low
to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such
drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the
building sewer.
   9.   Pipe Specifications. Building sewer pipe shall be free from flaws,
splits, or breaks. Materials shall be as specified in the State Plumbing Code
except that the building sewer pipe, from the property line to the public
sewer, shall comply with the current edition of one of the following:
      A.   Clay sewer pipe – A.S.T.M. C-700 (extra strength).
      B.   Extra heavy cast iron soil pipe – A.S.T.M. A-74.
      C.   Ductile iron water pipe – A.W.W.A. C-151.
      D.   P.V.C. – SDR26 – A.S.T.M. D-3034.
   10.   Bearing Walls. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within
three feet of any bearing wall that might thereby be weakened.
   11.   Jointing. Fittings, type of joint and jointing material shall be
compatible with the type of pipe used, subject to the approval of the
Superintendent. Solvent-welded joints are not permitted.
   12.   Unstable Soil. No sewer connection shall be laid so that it is exposed
when crossing any watercourse. Where an old watercourse must of necessity be
crossed or where there is any danger of undermining or settlement, cast iron
soil pipe or vitrified clay sewer pipe thoroughly encased in concrete shall be
required for such crossings. Such encasement shall extend at least six inches
on all sides of the pipe. The cast iron pipe or encased clay pipe shall rest on
firm, solid material at either end.
   13.   Preparation of Basement or Crawl Space. No connection for any
residence, business or other structure with any sanitary sewer shall be made
unless the basement floor is poured, or in the case of a building with a slab
or crawl space, unless the ground floor is installed with the area adjacent to
the foundation of such building cleared of debris and backfilled. The backfill
shall be well compacted and graded so that the drainage is away from the
foundation. Prior to the time the basement floor is poured, or the first floor
is installed in buildings without basements, the sewer shall be plugged and the
plug shall be sealed by the Superintendent. Any accumulation of water in any
excavation or basement during construction and prior to connection to the
sanitary sewer shall be removed by means other than draining into the sanitary
sewer.
96.06 INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
   Grease, oil, sludge and sand interceptors shall be provided by gas and
service stations, convenience stores, car washes, garages, and other facilities
when, in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of such wastes that contain grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable waste, sand or other harmful ingredients. Such interceptors shall not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. When required, such
interceptors shall be installed in accordance with the following:
   1.   Design and Location. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
as specified in the State Plumbing Code, to be approved by the Superintendent,
and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   2.   Construction Standards. The interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers that shall be gastight and watertight.
   3.   Maintenance. All such interceptors shall be maintained by the owner at
the owner’s expense and shall be kept in continuously efficient operations at
all times.
96.07 SEWER TAP.
   Connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the
“Y” branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If no properly
located “Y” branch is available, a saddle “Y” shall be installed at the
location specified by the Superintendent. The public sewer shall be tapped with
a tapping machine and a saddle appropriate to the type of public sewer shall be
glued or attached with a gasket and stainless steel clamps to the sewer. At no
time shall a building sewer be constructed so as to enter a manhole unless
special written permission is received from the Superintendent and in
accordance with the Superintendent’s direction if such connection is approved.
96.08 INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   All connections with the sanitary sewer system before being covered shall be
inspected and approved, in writing, by the Superintendent. As soon as all pipe
work from the public sewer to inside the building has been completed, and
before any backfilling is done, the Superintendent shall be notified and the
Superintendent shall inspect and test the work as to workmanship and material;
no sewer pipe laid underground shall be covered or trenches filled until after
the sewer has been so inspected and approved. If the Superintendent refuses to
approve the work, the plumber or owner must proceed immediately to correct the
work.
96.09 PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   1.   All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection and
maintenance of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   2.   Subdivider’s Responsibility. As used in this subsection, the term
“subdivision” means a division of land into three or more lots or other
divisions of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership or building development. The term, when appropriate to the context,
relates to the process of subdividing or the land subdivided or the
resubdivision of land previously divided or platted into lots or other
divisions of land. “Subdivider” means any person engaged directly or through an
agent in the business of selling or leasing subdivided land or of offering such
land for sale or lease to the public. Where a public sanitary sewer is
reasonably accessible, the subdivider shall provide costs of excavation and
installation of such sanitary sewer and shall provide within the subdivision
the sanitary sewer system, as required to make the sewer accessible to each lot
in the subdivision. Sanitary sewers shall be stubbed into each lot. Sewer
systems shall be approved by the Council and the State Department of Health and
the construction shall be approved by the Superintendent. The City shall
provide the sewer pipe and the sand backfill around the sewer pipe only. Where
sanitary sewers are not available, other facilities must be approved by the
Council and the State Department of Health and the construction of such
facilities must be under the supervision and approval of the Superintendent of
Public Works.
96.10 ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   Construction or maintenance of building sewer lines, whether located upon
the private property of any owner or in the public right-of-way, which
construction or maintenance is in violation of any of the requirements of this
chapter, shall be corrected, at the owner’s expense, within 30 days after date
of official notice from the Council of such violation. If not made within such
time, the Council shall, in addition to the other penalties herein provided,
have the right to finish and correct the work and assess the cost thereof to
the property owner. Such assessment shall be collected with and in the same
manner as general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3])
CHAPTER 97
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
 
97.01 Storm Water              97.05 Restricted Discharges; Powers of
                               Superintendent
97.02 Surface Waters Exception 97.06 Special Facilities
97.03 Prohibited Discharges    97.07 Control Manholes
97.04 Restricted Discharges    97.08 Testing of Wastes
 
97.01 STORM WATER.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer. Storm
water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers that
are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process waters may be discharged on approval of the Superintendent, to a storm
sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
97.02 SURFACE WATERS EXCEPTION.
   Special permits for discharging surface waters to a public sanitary sewer
may be issued by the Council upon recommendation of the Superintendent where
such discharge is deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of flushing, but
any permit so issued shall be subject to revocation at any time when deemed to
the best interests of the sewer system.
97.03 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   1.   Flammable or Explosive Material. Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel
oil, or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
   2.   Toxic or Poisonous Materials. Any waters or wastes containing toxic or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant,
including but not limited to cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter as
CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
   3.   Corrosive Wastes. Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   4.   Solid or Viscous Substances. Solid or viscous substances in quantities
or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   5.   Excessive B.O.D., Solids or Flow.
      A.   Any waters or wastes: (i) having a five-day biochemical oxygen
demand greater than 300 parts per million by weight; or (ii) containing more
than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended solids; or (iii) having an
average daily flow greater than two percent of the average sewage flow of the
City, shall be subject to the review of the Superintendent.
      B.   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at the owner’s expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to: (i) reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million
by weight; or (ii) reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by
weight; or (iii) control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters
or wastes. Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
97.04 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances restricted are:
   1.   High Temperature. Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
150 degrees F (65 degrees C).
   2.   Fat, Oil, Grease. Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or 600
milligrams per liter of dispersed or other soluble matter.
   3.   Viscous Substances. Water or wastes containing substances that may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 degrees F and 150 degrees
F (0 degrees to 65 degrees C).
   4.   Garbage. Any garbage that has not been properly shredded, that is, to
such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow
conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than
one-half inch in any dimension.
   5.   Acids. Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not.
   6.   Toxic or Objectionable Wastes. Any waters or wastes containing iron,
chromium, copper, zinc, and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or
wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials.
   7.   Odor or Taste. Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste
or odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits that may
be established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of State, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
   8.   Radioactive Wastes. Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-
life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable State or federal regulations.
   9.   Excess Alkalinity. Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
   10.   Unusual Wastes. Materials that exert or cause:
      A.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
      B.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
      C.   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
      D.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
   11.   Noxious or Malodorous Gases. Any noxious or malodorous gas or other
substance that, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, is capable
of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing entry into
sewers for their maintenance and repair.
   12.   Damaging Substances. Any waters, wastes, materials, or substances that
react with water or wastes in the sewer system to release noxious gases,
develop color of undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in objectionable
concentration or create any other condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes.
   13.   Untreatable Wastes. Waters or wastes containing substances that are
not amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes
employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage
treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
97.05 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES; POWERS OF SUPERINTENDENT.
   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to
the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Section
97.04 and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
   1.   Rejection. Reject the wastes by requiring disconnection from the public
sewage system;
   2.   Pretreatment. Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for
discharge to the public sewers;
   3.   Controls Imposed. Require control over the quantities and rates of
discharge; and/or
   4.   Special Charges. Require payment to cover the added cost of handling
and treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under
the provisions of
Chapter 99.
97.06 SPECIAL FACILITIES.
   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. Where preliminary
treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at the owner’s expense.
97.07 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the owner’s
expense, and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
97.08 TESTING OF WASTES.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from
periodic grab samples).
CHAPTER 98
ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
 
98.01 When Prohibited             98.05 Discharge Restrictions
98.02 When Required               98.06 Maintenance of System
98.03 Compliance with Regulations 98.07 Systems Abandoned
98.04 Permit Required             98.08 Disposal of Septage
 
98.01 WHEN PROHIBITED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.02 WHEN REQUIRED.
   When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
Section
95.05, every building wherein persons reside, congregate or are employed shall
be provided with an approved on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
98.03 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system shall comply with the specifications and
requirements set forth by the Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 69, and
with such additional requirements as are prescribed by the regulations of the
County Board of Health.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3 & 4])
98.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall install or alter an on-site wastewater treatment and
disposal system without first obtaining a permit from the County Board of
Health.
98.05 DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful to discharge any wastewater from an on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system (except under an NPDES permit) to any ditch,
stream, pond, lake, natural or artificial waterway, drain tile or to the
surface of the ground.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
98.06 MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
   The owner of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system shall
operate and maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and at no
expense to the City.
98.07 SYSTEMS ABANDONED.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by an
on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system, as provided in Section
95.05, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
these Sanitary Sewer chapters and the on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.08 DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.
   No person shall dispose of septage from an on-site treatment system at any
location except an approved disposal site.
CHAPTER 99
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
 
99.01 Sewer Service Charges Required      99.05 Service Discontinued
99.01.01 Rate for Disposal of Septic Tank 99.06 Lien for Nonpayment
Waste by Nonresidents
99.02 Special Rates                       99.07 Lien Exemption
99.03 Private Water Systems               99.08 Lien Notice
99.04 Payment of Bills                    99.09 Special Agreements Permitted
 
99.01 SEWER SERVICE CHARGES REQUIRED.
   Every customer shall pay to the City sewer service charges in the amount of
70 percent of the bill for water and water service attributable to the customer
for the property served, plus a service charge of $11.00 per month per water
meter for business and residential uses.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
(Section 99.01 – Ord. 465 – Mar. 25 Supp.)
99.01.01 RATE FOR DISPOSAL OF SEPTIC TANK WASTE BY NONRESIDENTS.
   Non-residents of the City may dispose of waste from privately owned septic
tanks, holding tanks, or recreational vehicles at the wastewater treatment
facilities for a fee of 10-cents per gallon, all payable at the time of
disposal.   
(Section 99.01.01 – Ord. 462 – Apr. 24 Supp.)
99.02 SPECIAL RATES.
   Where, in the judgment of the Superintendent and the Council, special
conditions exist to the extent that the application of the sewer charges
provided in Section
99.01 would be inequitable or unfair to either the City or the customer, a
special rate shall be proposed by the Superintendent and submitted to the
Council for approval by resolution.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.03 PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS.
   Customers whose premises are served by a private water system shall pay
sewer charges based upon the water used as determined by the City either by an
estimate agreed to by the customer or by metering the water system at the
customer’s expense. Any negotiated or agreed-upon sales or charges shall be
subject to approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.04 PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   All sewer service charges are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
110.09 of this Code of Ordinances. A late payment penalty, if any, may be added
to each delinquent bill.
99.05 SERVICE DISCONTINUED.
   Sewer service to delinquent customers shall be discontinued or disconnected
in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Notice. The Clerk shall notify each delinquent customer that service
will be discontinued or disconnected if payment of the combined service
account, including late payment charges, is not received by the date specified
in the notice of delinquency. Such notice shall be sent by ordinary mail to the
customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred and shall inform
the customer of the nature of the delinquency and afford the customer the
opportunity for a hearing prior to the discontinuance or disconnection..
   2.   Notice to Landlords. If the customer is a tenant, and if the owner or
landlord of the property or premises has made a written request for notice, the
notice of delinquency shall also be given to the owner or landlord. If the
customer is a tenant and requests a change of name for service under the
account, such request shall be sent to the owner or landlord of the property if
the owner or landlord has made a written request for notice of any change of
name for service under the account to the rental property.
   3.   Hearing. If a hearing is requested by noon of the day preceding the
shut off the Clerk shall conduct an informal hearing and shall make a
determination as to whether the discontinuance or disconnection is justified.
The customer has the right to appeal the Clerk’s decision to the Council, and
if the Council finds that discontinuance or disconnection is justified, then
such discontinuance or disconnection shall be made, unless payment has been
received.
99.06 LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
   The owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for sewer service charges to the premises. Sewer
service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon
the premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the County Treasurer
for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.07 LIEN EXEMPTION.
   1.   Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall not apply to the charges for
any of the services of sewer systems, storm water drainage systems, sewage
treatment, solid waste collection, and solid waste disposal for a residential
rental property where the charge is paid directly to the City by the tenant, if
the landlord gives written notice to the City that the property is residential
rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or charges for such
service. The City may require a deposit not exceeding the usual cost of 90 days
of such services to be paid to the City. When the tenant moves from the rental
property, the City shall refund the deposit if all service charges are paid in
full. The lien exemption does not apply to delinquent charges for repairs
related to any of the services.
   2.   Written Notice. The landlord’s written notice shall contain the name of
the tenant responsible for charges, the address of the residential rental
property that the tenant is to occupy, and the date that the occupancy begins.
Upon receipt, the City shall acknowledge the notice and deposit. A change in
tenant for a residential rental property shall require a new written notice to
be given to the City within 30 business days of the change in tenant. A change
in tenant for a commercial rental property shall require a new written notice
to be given to the City within 10 business days of the change in tenant. A
change in the ownership of the residential rental property shall require
written notice of such change to be given to the City within 30 business days
of the completion of the change of ownership.
   3.   Mobile Homes, Modular Homes, and Manufactured Homes. A lien for
nonpayment of utility services described in Subsection 1 of this section shall
not be placed upon a premises that is a mobile home, modular home, or
manufactured home if the mobile home, modular home, or manufactured home is
owned by a tenant of and located in a mobile home park or manufactured home
community and the mobile home park or manufactured home community owner or
manager is the account holder, unless the lease agreement specifies that the
tenant is responsible for payment of a portion of the rates or charges billed
to the account holder.
99.08 LIEN NOTICE.  
   A lien for delinquent service charges shall not be certified to the County
Treasurer unless prior written notice of intent to certify a lien is given to
the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred. If the
customer is a tenant and if the owner or landlord of the property has made a
written request for notice, the notice shall also be given to the owner or
landlord. The notice shall be sent to the appropriate persons by ordinary mail
not less than 30 days prior to certification of the lien to the County
Treasurer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.09 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS PERMITTED.
   No statement in these chapters shall be construed as preventing a special
agreement, arrangement, or contract between the Council, and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted subject to special conditions, rate, and cost as established by the
Council.
CHAPTER 105
SOLID WASTE CONTROL
 
105.01 Purpose                           105.07 Littering Prohibited
105.02 Definitions                       105.08 Toxic and Hazardous Waste
105.03 Sanitary Disposal Required        105.09 Waste Storage Containers
105.04 Health and Fire Hazard            105.10 Prohibited Practices
105.05 Open Burning Restricted           105.11 Sanitary Disposal Project
                                         Designated
105.06 Separation of Yard Waste Required
 
105.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the chapters in this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Solid
Waste Control and Collection is to provide for the sanitary storage,
collection, and disposal of solid waste and, thereby, to protect the citizens
of the City from such hazards to their health, safety and welfare as may result
from the uncontrolled disposal of solid waste.
105.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in these chapters the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Collector” means any person authorized to gather solid waste from
public and private places.
   2.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit, or drop.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[1])
   3.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located within a
structure and forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or
are intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
   4.   “Garbage” means all solid and semisolid, putrescible animal and
vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing,
serving and consuming of food or of material intended for use as food, and all
offal, excluding useful industrial by-products, and includes all such
substances from all public and private establishments and from all residences.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   5.   “Landscape waste” means any vegetable or plant waste except garbage.
The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds,
leaves, grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings.
(IAC, 567-20.2[455B])
   6.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials, or
debris not exceeding 10 pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume. Litter
includes but is not limited to empty beverage containers, cigarette butts, food
waste packaging, other food or candy wrappers, handbills, empty cartons, or
boxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[2])
   7.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person
residing in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating or transacting business in
any premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities,
liabilities and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.
   8.   “Refuse” means putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including but not
limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residues, street cleanings,
market and industrial solid waste and sewage treatment waste in dry or
semisolid form.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   9.   “Residential premises” means a single-family dwelling.
   10.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises as a
result of residential activities. The term includes landscape waste grown on
the premises or deposited thereon by the elements, but excludes garbage, tires,
trade wastes and any locally recyclable goods or plastics.
(IAC, 567-20.2[455B])
   11.   “Rubbish” means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible
and non-combustible waste, such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   12.   “Sanitary disposal” means a method of treating solid waste so that it
does not produce a hazard to the public health or safety or create a nuisance.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   13.   “Sanitary disposal project” means all facilities and appurtenances
(including all real and personal property connected with such facilities) that
are acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved,
extended, maintained, or operated to facilitate the final disposition of solid
waste without creating a significant hazard to the public health or safety, and
which are approved by the Director of the State Department of Natural
Resources. “Sanitary disposal project” does not include a pyrolysis or
gasification facility as defined in Section 455B.301 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
   14.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar
discarded solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such
materials resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic
activities. Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined by Section 321.1 of
the Code of Iowa. Solid waste does not include any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
      A.   Hazardous waste regulated under the Federal Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.
      B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of Iowa,
except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific wastes
have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.
      C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
      D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to acceptable
State or federal standards.
      E.   Steel slag which is a product resulting from the steel manufacturing
process and is managed as an item of value in a controlled manner and not as a
discarded material.
      F.   Material that is legitimately recycled pursuant to Section 455D.4A
of the Code of Iowa.
      G.   Post-use polymers or recoverable feedstocks that are any of the
following:
      (1)   Processed at a pyrolysis or gasification facility.
      (2)   Held at a pyrolysis or gasification facility prior to processing to
ensure production is not interrupted.
105.03 SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
   It is the duty of each owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of all
refuse accumulating on the owner’s premises before it becomes a nuisance. Any
such accumulation remaining on any premises for a period of more than 30 days
shall be deemed a nuisance and the City may proceed to abate such nuisances in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 50 or by initiating proper action in
district court.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 657)
105.04 HEALTH AND FIRE HAZARD.
   It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises,
improved or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste that
constitute a health, sanitation or fire hazard.
105.05 OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.
   No person shall allow, cause or permit open burning of combustible materials
where the products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passing
through a chimney or stack, except that open burning is permitted in the
following circumstances:
(IAC, 567-23.2[455B] and 567-100.2)
   1.   Disaster Rubbish. The open burning of rubbish, including landscape
waste, for the duration of the community disaster period in cases where an
officially declared emergency condition exists, provided that the burning of
any structures or demolished structures is conducted in accordance with 40 CFR
Section 61.145.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3a])
   2.   Trees and Tree Trimmings. The open burning of trees and tree trimmings
at a City-operated burning site, provided such burning is conducted in
compliance with the rules established by the State Department of Natural
Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3b])
   3.   Flare Stacks. The open burning or flaring of waste gases, provided such
open burning or flaring is conducted in compliance with applicable rules of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3c])
   4.   Landscape Waste. The disposal by open burning of landscape waste
originating on the premises. However, the burning of landscape waste produced
in clearing, grubbing and construction operations shall be limited to areas
located at least one-fourth mile from any building inhabited by other than the
landowner or tenant conducting the open burning. Rubber tires shall not be used
to ignite landscape waste.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3d])
   5.   Recreational Fires. Open fires for cooking, heating, recreation, and
ceremonies, provided they comply with the limits for emission of visible air
contaminants established by the State Department of Natural Resources. Rubber
tires shall not be burned in a recreational fire.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3e])
   6.   Residential Waste. Backyard burning of residential waste at dwellings
of four-family units or less.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3f])
   7.   Training Fires. Fires set for the purpose of conducting bona fide
training of public or industrial employees in firefighting methods, provided
that the training fires are conducted in compliance with rules established by
the State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3g])
   8.   Pesticide Containers and Seed Corn Bags. The disposal by open burning
of paper or plastic pesticide containers (except those formerly containing
organic forms of beryllium, selenium, mercury, lead, cadmium or arsenic) and
seed corn bags resulting from farming activities occurring on the premises if
burned in accordance with rules established by the State Department of Natural
Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3h])
   9.   Agricultural Structures. The open burning of agricultural structures if
in accordance with rules and limitations established by the State Department of
Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3i])
   10.   Controlled Burning of a Demolished Building. The controlled burning of
a demolished building by the City, subject to approval of the Council, provided
that the controlled burning is conducted in accordance with rules and
limitations established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3j])
   11.   Variance. Any person wishing to conduct open burning of materials not
permitted herein may make application for a variance to the Director of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[2])
105.06 SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.
   All yard waste shall be separated by the owner or occupant from all other
solid waste accumulated on the premises and shall be composted or burned on the
premises or deposited at the City’s yard waste disposal site. As used in this
section, “yard waste” means any debris such as grass clippings, leaves, garden
waste, brush, and trees. Yard waste does not include tree stumps.
105.07 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized collection
and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles provided for such
purpose. When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle, the driver of the motor
vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case where doubt exists as to
which occupant of the motor vehicle actually discarded the litter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.363)
105.08 TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection any toxic or hazardous waste. Such materials shall be transported
and disposed of as prescribed by the Director of the State Department of
Natural Resources. As used in this section, “toxic and hazardous waste” means
waste materials, including (but not limited to) poisons, pesticides,
herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological waste, flammable or explosive
materials, and similar harmful waste that requires special handling and that
must be disposed of in such a manner as to conserve the environment and protect
the public health and safety.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
(IAC, 567-102.13[2] and 400-27.14[2])
105.09 WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or renting any premises,
dwelling unit or any place where refuse accumulates shall provide and at all
times maintain in good order and repair portable containers for refuse in
accordance with the following:
   1.   Container Specifications. Waste storage containers shall comply with
the following specifications:
      A.   Residential. Residential waste containers, whether they are
reusable, portable containers or heavy-duty disposable garbage bags, shall be
of sufficient capacity, and leak-proof and waterproof. Disposable containers
shall be securely fastened, and reusable containers shall be fitted with a fly-
tight lid that shall be kept in place except when depositing or removing the
contents of the container. Reusable containers shall also be lightweight and of
sturdy construction and have suitable lifting devices.
      B.   Commercial. Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing or
renting any commercial premises where an excessive amount of refuse accumulates
and where its storage in portable containers as required above is impractical,
shall maintain metal bulk storage containers approved by the City.
   2.   Storage of Containers. Residential solid waste containers shall be
stored upon the residential premises. Commercial solid waste containers shall
be stored upon private property, unless the owner has been granted written
permission from the City to use public property for such purposes. The storage
site shall be well drained and fully accessible to collection equipment, public
health personnel, and fire inspection personnel. All owners of residential and
commercial premises shall be responsible for proper storage of all garbage and
yard waste to prevent materials from being blown or scattered around
neighboring yards and streets.
   3.   Location of Containers for Collection. Containers for the storage of
solid waste awaiting collection shall be placed outdoors at some easily
accessible place by the owner or occupant of the premises served.
   4.   Nonconforming Containers. Solid waste placed in containers that are not
in compliance with the provisions of this section will not be collected.
105.10 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   1.   Unlawful Use of Containers. Deposit refuse in any solid waste
containers not owned by such person without the written consent of the owner of
such containers.
   2.   Interfere with Collectors. Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors be those of the
City, or those of any other authorized waste collection service.
   3.   Incinerators. Burn rubbish or garbage except in incinerators designed
for high temperature operation, in which solid, semisolid, liquid, or gaseous
combustible refuse is ignited and burned efficiently, and from which the solid
residues contain little or no combustible material, as acceptable to the
Environmental Protection Commission.
   4.   Scavenging. Take or collect any solid waste that has been placed out
for collection on any premises, unless such person is an authorized solid waste
collector.
105.11 SANITARY DISPOSAL PROJECT DESIGNATED.
   The sanitary landfill facilities operated by Union County are hereby
designated as the official “Public Sanitary Disposal Project” for the disposal
of solid waste produced or originating within the City.
CHAPTER 106
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
 
106.01 Collection Service      106.06 Right of Entry
106.02 Collection Vehicles     106.07 Contract Requirements
106.03 Loading                 106.08 Collection Fees
106.04 Frequency of Collection 106.09 Lien for Nonpayment
106.05 Bulky Rubbish
 
106.01 COLLECTION SERVICE.
   The City shall provide by contract for the collection of solid waste, except
bulky rubbish as provided in Section
106.05, from residential premises only. The owners or operators of commercial,
industrial, or institutional premises shall provide for the collection of solid
waste produced upon such premises.
106.02 COLLECTION VEHICLES.
   Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of garbage
and similar putrescible waste or solid waste containing such materials shall be
leak-proof, durable and of easily cleanable construction. They shall be cleaned
to prevent nuisances, pollution, or insect breeding and shall be maintained in
good repair.
(IAC, 567-104.9[455B])
106.03 LOADING.
   Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of any
solid waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents will
not fall, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be covered to prevent blowing or
loss of material. Where spillage does occur, the material shall be picked up
immediately by the collector or transporter and returned to the vehicle or
container and the area properly cleaned.
106.04 FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
   All solid waste shall be collected from residential premises at least once
each week and from commercial, industrial and institutional premises as
frequently as may be necessary, but not less than once each week.
106.05 BULKY RUBBISH.
   Bulky rubbish that is too large or heavy to be collected in the normal
manner of other solid waste may be collected by the collector upon request in
accordance with procedures established by the Council.
106.06 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property
for the purpose of collecting solid waste, as required by this chapter;
however, solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or other
residential buildings.
106.07 CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting,
processing or disposing of solid waste from residential premises for the City
without first entering into a contract with the City. This section does not
prohibit an owner from transporting solid waste accumulating upon premises
owned, occupied or used by such owner, provided such refuse is disposed of
properly in an approved sanitary disposal project. Furthermore, a contract is
not required for the removal, hauling, or disposal of earth and rock material
from grading or excavation activities, provided that all such materials are
conveyed in tight vehicles, trucks or receptacles so constructed and maintained
that none of the material being transported is spilled upon any public right-
of-way.
106.08 COLLECTION FEES.
   The collection and disposal of solid waste as provided by this chapter are
declared to be beneficial to the property served or eligible to be served and
there shall be levied and collected fees for the same, in accordance with the
following:
(Goreham vs. Des Moines, 1970, 179 NW 2nd, 449)
   1.   Fee for Collection. The fee for solid waste collection and disposal
service used or available, is $17.85 base rate per month for the collection of
two 32-gallon cans or bags per week. A fuel charge shall be calculated by an
average cost of diesel fuel as provided by the hauler in the form of fuel
purchase receipts provided to the Clerk on a weekly basis, the basis of fuel
being $2.70 and the average mpg being six. The customer may purchase stickers
at City Hall for $1.00 each for each addition can or bag to be collected.   
(Subsection 1 – Ord. 474 – Mar. 25 Supp.)
   2.   Payment of Bills. All fees are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of the combined service account as described in
Section
110.09 of this Code of Ordinances. Solid waste collection service may be
discontinued in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
99.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
99.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
   3.   Collection Service Deposit. A deposit fee to begin collection service
shall be required in the amount of $30.00 with such deposit due prior to the
commencement of services. Upon a showing, based upon the records of the City
Clerk, that the customer’s account has been paid on time for a period of twelve
consecutive months, the deposit shall be refunded to the customer.
106.09 LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
   Except as provided for in Section
99.07 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof are jointly and severally liable for fees for solid
waste collection and disposal. Fees remaining unpaid and delinquent shall
constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and shall be certified
by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as
property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
CHAPTER 110
MUNICIPAL GAS UTILITY
 
110.01 Purpose                       110.06 Rules Adopted
110.02 Categories of Service         110.07 Firm Customers
110.03 Rates Uniform                 110.08 Rate Adjustment for Cost of
                                     Purchased Gas
110.04 Right to Enter and Read Meter 110.09 Payment for Service
110.05 Shutting Off Gas              110.10 Other Services and Charges
 
110.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to fix and provide for the establishment,
collection and enforcement of rates, fees, and charges for the service and
facilities furnished through and by the municipal gasworks system.
110.02 CATEGORIES OF SERVICE.
   The Council shall establish by resolution from time to time various rate
categories according to cost, service, amount, whether interruptible or
standby, as well as provide for minimum charges, late payment penalty and
connection or reconnection charge.
110.03 RATES UNIFORM.
   Within the various categories, charges made and established shall be of
uniform application to all users within said category.
110.04 RIGHT TO ENTER AND READ METER.
   Authorized City employees have the authority to enter the premises of any
customer at reasonable hours to read and/or remove the gas meter or change said
meter in the pursuit of maintenance and safety programs.
110.05 SHUTTING OFF GAS.
   The Clerk may shut off the gas supply to a customer when said customer may
be affecting the safety or proper operation of the system.
110.06 RULES ADOPTED.
   Gas tariff rules and regulations pertaining to the operation and maintenance
of the City’s natural gas system are on file with the Utilities Division of the
Iowa Department of Commerce and are included herein by reference.
110.07 FIRM CUSTOMERS.
   Service to firm customers is applicable to all firm customers, including
residential, commercial and industrial users. The rate is as follows: $10.00
base rate meter charge plus a fixed usage charge of $.48/ccf, plus an
additional usage charge tied to the cost changes in the base price for gas
purchased as authorized in Section
110.08.
(Ord. 455 - Apr. 22 Supp.)
110.08 RATE ADJUSTMENT FOR COST OF PURCHASED GAS.
   The rates established by this chapter are subject to an adjustment, either
an increase or a decrease, due to a large cost change from the base price for
gas purchased on a per-mcf basis on which the above rates are based, occurring
subsequent to the effective date of those rates. Adjustments shall be made no
more often than once per billing period and said adjustments shall be set out
as a separate item or by a clear statement made on each customer’s bill.
Changes in rates shall only be made in one-cent steps stated to the nearest
cent and the calculation thereof shall be made by the Clerk, who shall then
inform the Council of the pendency of said increase or decrease at the next
regularly scheduled Council meeting.
110.09 PAYMENT FOR SERVICE.
   Billing and payment for gas service shall be in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Bills Mailed. The Clerk shall prepare and mail bills on or before the
tenth day of each month.
   2.   Delinquency. Bills not paid by the thirtieth day of the month shall be
deemed delinquent.
   3.   Service Discontinued. Service to customers having delinquent accounts
shall be discontinued if such account is not paid within 20 days from the date
the bill is rendered. A bill is considered rendered when deposited in the U.S.
mail with postage prepaid or when delivered by the utility to the last known
address of the party responsible for payment. The Clerk shall notify such
customers 12 days prior to the date when service is to be discontinued that if
payment is not received service will be discontinued and that a reconnection
charge of $25.00 shall be collected in addition to any delinquent charges and
penalties before service is again made available.
   4.   Charges for Service Calls. The Municipal Gas Utility shall establish a
charge of $25.00 for all service calls made. A service charge shall be made for
all necessary calls other than for the repair of the equipment belonging to the
Municipal Gas Utility.
110.10 OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES.
   The City may purchase or furnish and establish charges for such services in
connection with the natural gas system as the Council, by resolution, may
approve from time to time.
CHAPTER 111
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
111.01 Grant of Franchise           111.11 Information
111.02 Rights and Privileges        111.12 Applicable Regulations
111.03 Poles and Wires              111.13 Franchise Fee
111.04 Construction and Maintenance 111.14 Managemetn Fees
111.05 Excavations                  111.15 Binding
111.06 Utility Easements            111.16 Termination
111.07 Relocation Not Required      111.17 Severability
111.08 Relocation Reimbursement     111.18 Waving Right to Trial By Jury
111.09 Indemnification              111.19 Effective and Binding
111.10 Pruning and Vegetation       111.20 Repealer
 
111.01 GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, an Iowa corporation,
(hereinafter called “Company,”) and its successors and assigns, the right and
non-exclusive franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain and operate in
the City of Bedford, Iowa, (hereinafter called the “City,”) a system for the
transmission and distribution of electric energy and communications signals
along, under, over and upon the streets, avenues, rights of way and alleys to
serve customers within the City, and to furnish and sell electric energy to the
City and its inhabitants. The Company is granted the right to exercise of
powers of eminent domain, subject to City Council approval. This franchise
shall be effective for a twenty-five (25) year period from and after the
effective date of this ordinance; provided, however, that either the City or
the Company may, during the first ninety (90) days following the fifth, tenth,
fifteenth, or twentieth anniversaries of the effective date of the franchise,
provide written notice to the other party of its desire to amend the franchise.
† The parties may negotiate for a period of up to ninety (90) days following
receipt of notice. If, at the conclusion of the negotiation period, the City
determines in good faith that the franchise, if continued without amendment,
will have a material or significant adverse impact on the City or the Company’s
electric customers located within the corporate limits of the City, the City
may terminate the franchise. Failure to amend the franchise at the first,
second, or third date option does not render invalid the City’s second option,
third option, or fourth option to amend or terminate. If neither party requests
such negotiations at year five, year ten, year fifteen, or year twenty the
franchise will continue through the conclusion of twenty-five years from its
initial approval date.
 
Notes
EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 475, adopting an electric franchise for the City,
  was passed and adopted on March 12, 2025.
111.02 RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
   The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions and
limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa 2023 or as subsequently amended
or changed.
111.03 POLES AND WIRES.
   The Company shall have the right to erect all necessary poles and to place
thereon the necessary wires, fixtures and accessories as well as to excavate
and bury conduits or conductors for the distribution of electric energy and
communications signals in and through the City, provided the same shall be
placed in accord with this franchise and City Code regulations of the City,
regarding the placement of structures, facilities, accessories or other objects
in the right-of-way, including ordinances which assign corridors or other
placements to users of the right of way and requirements which may be adopted
regarding separation of structures, facilities, accessories or other objects.
111.04 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The Company shall, excluding facilities located in private easements or
public utility easements (whether titled in Company exclusively or in Company
and other entities), in accordance with Iowa law including Company’s Tariff on
file with and made effective by the Iowa Utilities Board as may subsequently be
amended (“Tariff”), at its cost and expense, locate and relocate its existing
installations located in, on, over or under the right-of-way of any public
street, right of way or alley in the City in such a manner as the City may
require for the purposes of facilitating the construction, reconstruction,
maintenance or repair of the street right of way or alley. The Company shall
not be required to pay any City permits as needed as a result of City required
relocation. If the City has a reasonable alternative route for the street,
right of way or alley or an alternative construction method, which would not
cause the relocation of Company installations or would minimize the cost or
expense of relocation of Company installations, the City and Company shall work
together to consider said alternative route or construction method. The City
shall, in the extension or modification of streets and roads, make provision
for the placement of company service lines and facilities on City-owned right
of way without charge to Company. In planning for the extension or modification
of streets, the City shall, to the extent practicable design such changes to
limit the need for relocation of Company facilities. The City shall be
responsible for surveying and staking the right-of-way for City projects that
require the Company to relocate Company facilities. If requested, the City
shall provide, at no cost to the Company, copies of the relocation plan and
profile and cross section drawings. If vegetation and tree removals must be
completed by the City as part of the City’s project and are necessary whether
or not utility facilities must be relocated, the City at its own cost shall be
responsible for said removals. If the timing of vegetation and tree removals
does not coincide with Company’s facilities relocation schedule and the Company
must remove the vegetation and trees that are included in the City’s portion of
the project, the City shall either remove them or reimburse the Company for the
expenses incurred to remove said materials. If project funds from a source
other than the City are available to pay for the relocation of utility
facilities, the City shall use its best efforts to secure said funds and
provide them to the Company to compensate the Company for the costs of
relocation.
111.05 EXCAVATIONS.
   In making excavations in any streets, avenues and public places for the
installation, maintenance or repair of conductor, conduits or the erection of
poles and wires or other appliances, the Company shall not unreasonably
obstruct the use of the streets. The Company in making such excavations shall,
if required by ordinance, obtain a City permit therefore and provide City
representatives with advance notice prior to the actual commencement of the
work, and shall comply with all provisions and requirements of the City in its
regulation of the use of City right of way in performing such work. In
emergencies which require immediate excavation, the Company may proceed with
the work without first applying for or obtaining the permit, provided, however,
that Company shall apply for and obtain the excavation permit as soon as
possible after commencing such emergency work. The Company shall comply with
all provisions and requirements of the City it its regulation of the use of
City right of way in performing such work. The Company shall comply with all
City ordinances regarding paving cuts, placement of facilities and restoration
of pavement and other public infrastructure. The Company shall replace the
surface, restoring the condition as existed prior to the Company’s excavation
but shall not be required to improve or modify the public right of way,
sidewalks or other areas in or adjacent to the Company project to a condition
superior to its immediate previously existing condition. Company shall complete
all repairs in a timely manner. Company agrees any replacement of road surface
shall conform to current City ordinances regarding its depth and composition.
111.06 UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   Vacating a street, avenue, alley, public ground or public right-of-way shall
not deprive the Company of its right to operate and maintain existing
facilities and their replacements on, below, above, or beneath the vacated
property. Prior to the City abandoning or vacating any street, avenue, alley or
public ground where the Company has electric facilities, the City shall grant
the Company a utility easement for said facilities. If the City fails to grant
the Company a utility easement for said facilities prior to abandoning or
vacating a street, avenue, alley or public ground, the City shall at its cost
and expense obtain easements for the existing Company facilities.
111.07 RELOCATION NOT REQUIRED.
   The Company shall not be required to relocate, at its cost and expense,
Company facilities in the public right of way that have been relocated at
Company expense at the direction of the City in the previous ten (10) years.
111.08 RELOCATION REIMBURSEMENT.
   Pursuant to relocation of Company facilities, if the City orders or requests
the Company to relocate its existing facilities or equipment in order to
directly facilitate a project for the primary benefit of a commercial or
private developer or other non-public entity, the City shall require the
developer or non-public entity to reimburse the Company for the cost of such
relocation as a precondition to relocation of its existing facilities or
equipment. The Company shall not be required to relocate in order to facilitate
such private project at its expense.
111.09 INDEMNIFICATION.
   The Company shall indemnify, save and hold harmless the City from any and
all claims, suits, losses, damages, costs or expenses, on account of injury or
damage to any person or property, to the extent caused or occasioned by the
Company’s negligence in construction, reconstruction, excavation, operation or
maintenance of the electric facilities authorized by this franchise; provided,
however, that the Company shall not be obligated to defend, indemnify and save
harmless the City for any costs or damages to the extent arising from the
negligence of the City, its officers, employees or agents.
111.10 PRUNING AND VEGETATION.
   The pruning and removal of vegetation and trees shall be done in accordance
with current nationally accepted safety and utility industry standards and
federal and State law, rules and regulations. The Company is authorized and
empowered to prune or remove at Company expense, any tree extending into any
street, avenue, right of way, alley, public place or public grounds to maintain
electric reliability, safety, to restore utility service and to prevent limbs,
branches, or trunks from interfering with the wires and facilities of the
Company. The pruning and removal of vegetation and trees shall be completed in
accordance with nationally accepted safety and utility standards, NSI Z133.1-
2012, American National Standard for Arboricultural Operations-Safety
Requirements, and ANSI A300(Part 1) – 2008 Pruning, (Revision of ANSI A300 Part
1-2001) American National Standard for Tree, Shrub, and other Woody Plant
Management – Standard of Practices (Pruning) or subsequent revisions to these
standards, and City ordinances regarding the pruning of trees that incorporate
by reference that standard.
111.11 INFORMATION.
   Upon reasonable request, the Company shall provide the City, on a project
specific basis, information indicating the horizontal location, relative to
boundaries of the right of way, of all equipment which it owns or over which it
has control that is located in City right of way, including documents, maps and
other information in paper or electronic or other forms (“Information.”) The
Company and City recognize the Information may in whole or part be considered a
confidential record under State or federal law or both. Therefore, City shall
not release any Information without prior consent of the Company and shall
return the Information to Company upon request. City recognizes that Company
claims the Information may constitute a trade secret or is otherwise protected
from public disclosure by State or federal law on other grounds, and agrees to
retain the Information in its non-public files. Furthermore, the City agrees
that no documents, maps or other Information provided to the City by the
Company shall be made available to the public or other entities if such
documents or Information are exempt from disclosure under the provisions of the
Freedom of Information Act, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Critical
Energy Infrastructure requirements pursuant to 18 CFR 388.112 and 388.113, or
Chapter 22 of the Code of Iowa, as such statutes and regulations may be amended
from time to time.
111.12 APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
   The Company shall construct, operate and maintain its facilities in
accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board or its
successors and Iowa law. During the term of this franchise, the Company shall
furnish electric energy in the quantity and quality consistent with and in
accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board, the
Company’s tariff and made effective by the Iowa Utilities Board or its
successors and Iowa law.
111.13 FRANCHISE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed upon the customers a franchise fee of five (5)
percent upon the gross revenues, minus uncollectible accounts, generated from
sales of electricity and distribution service, pursuant to the Tariff, by the
Company within the corporate limits of the City. The franchise fee shall be
remitted by the Company to the City on or before the last business day of the
calendar quarter following the close of the calendar quarter in which the
franchise fee is charged.
   1.   City agrees to modify the level of franchise fees imposed only once in
any 24-month period.
   2.   Company will use its best efforts to commence collection of franchise
fees on or before the first Company billing cycle of the first calendar month
following ninety (90) days of receipt of information required of the City to
implement the franchise fee, including the City’s documentation of customer
classes subject to or exempted from City-imposed franchise fee.
   3.   City shall be solely responsible for identifying customer classes
subject to or exempt from paying the City imposed franchise fee. The Company
shall have no obligation to collect franchise fees from customers in annexed
areas until and unless such ordinances have been provided to the Company by
certified mail. The Company shall commence collecting franchise fees in the
annexed areas no sooner than sixty (60) days after receiving annexation
ordinances from the City.
   4.   Company shall not, under any circumstances be required to return or
refund any franchise fees that have been collected from customers and remitted
to the City. In the event the Company is required to provide data or
information in defense of the City’s imposition of franchise fees or the
Company is required to assist the City in identifying customers or calculating
any franchise fee refunds for groups of or individual customers the City shall
reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred by the Company to provide such
data or information.
111.14 MANAGEMENT FEES.
   The City shall not, pursuant to Chapter 480A.6 of the Code of Iowa, impose
or charge right of way management fees upon the Company or fees for permits for
Company construction, maintenance, repairs, excavation, pavement cutting or
inspections of Company work sites and projects or related matters.
111.15 BINDING.
   This franchise shall apply to and bind the City and Company and their
successors and assigns.
111.16 TERMINATION.
   Either City or Company (“party”) may terminate this franchise if the other
party shall be materially in breach of its provisions. Upon the occurrence of a
material breach, the non-breaching party shall provide the breaching party with
notification by certified mail specifying the alleged breach. The breaching
party shall have sixty (60) days to cure the breach, unless it notifies the
non-breaching party, and the parties agree upon a longer period for cure. If
the breach is not cured within the cure period, the non-breaching party may
terminate this franchise. A party shall not be considered to be in breach of
this franchise if it has operated in compliance with State or federal law. A
party shall not be considered to have breached this franchise if the alleged
breach is the result of the actions of a third part or the other party.
111.17 SEVERABILITY.
   If any of the provisions of this franchise ordinance are for any reason
declared to be illegal or void, the lawful provisions of this franchise
ordinance, which are severable from said unlawful provisions, shall be and
remain in full force and effect, the same as if the franchise ordinance
contained no illegal or void provisions.
111.18 WAVING RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY.
   To the fullest extent permitted by law, each of the parties hereto waives
any right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of litigation directly or
indirectly arising out of, under or in connection with this Agreement. Each
party further waives any right to consolidate any action in which a jury trial
has been waived with any other action in which a jury trial cannot be or has
not been waived.
111.19 EFFECTIVE AND BINDING.
   This ordinance and the rights and privileges herein granted shall become
effective and binding upon its approval and passage in accordance with Iowa law
and the written acceptance by the Company. The City shall provide Company with
an original signed and sealed copy of this ordinance within 10 days of its
final passage. The Company shall file in the office of the Clerk of the City,
its acceptance in writing of all the terms and provisions of this ordinance.
Following City Council approval, this ordinance shall be published in
accordance with the Code of Iowa. The effective date of this ordinance shall be
the date of publication.
111.20 REPEALER.
   Upon the effective date of this ordinance, all prior franchises granted to
the Company to furnish electric service to the City and its inhabitants are
hereby repealed and all other ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict
herewith are also hereby repealed.
(Chapter 111 – Ord. 475 – Mar. 25 Supp.)
CHAPTER 112
CABLE TELEVISION RATES REGULATIONS
 
112.01 Administration of Rules and    112.04 Cable Programming Service Tier
Regulations
112.02 Rate Regulation Proceedings    112.05 Delegation of Powers Permitted
112.03 Certification to FCC and Cable
Operator
 
112.01 ADMINISTRATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City has the legal authority to administer and shall enforce against any
non-municipally owned cable television system operator, as permitted therein,
the provisions of Part 76, Subpart N of the Rules and Regulations of the
Federal Communications Commission, concerning Cable Rate Regulation, 47 Code of
Federal Regulations §§76.900 et. seq., as they currently read and hereafter may
be amended, which are herewith incorporated by reference.
112.02 RATE REGULATION PROCEEDINGS.
   Any rate regulation proceedings conducted under Section
112.01 shall provide a reasonable opportunity for consideration of the views of
any interested party, including but not limited to, the City or its designee,
the Cable Operator, subscribers, and residents of the franchise area. In
addition to all other provisions required by the laws of the State of Iowa and
by this Code of Ordinances, and in order to provide for such opportunity for
consideration of the views of any interested party, the City shall take the
following actions:
   1.   The City shall publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the
City, post in a conspicuous place in the City Hall, and mail, by certified
mail, to the Cable Operator a public notice of the intent to conduct a public
proceeding on basic service tier rates and/or charges for equipment to receive
such basic service tier, as defined by the Federal Communications Commission
(“FCC”).
   2.   The public notice shall state, among other things, that cable
television rates are subject to municipal review and explain the nature of the
rate review in question; that any interested party has a right to participate
in the proceeding; that public views may be submitted in the proceeding,
explaining how they are to be submitted and the deadline for submitting any
such views; that a decision concerning the reasonableness of the cable
television rates in question will be governed by the Rules and Regulations of
the FCC; and that the decision of the City is subject to review by the FCC.
   3.   The City shall conduct a public proceeding to determine whether or not
the rates or proposed rate increases are reasonable. The City may delegate by
resolution the responsibility to conduct the proceeding to any duly qualified
and eligible individual(s) or entity. If the City or its designee cannot
determine the reasonableness of a proposed rate increase within the time period
permitted by the FCC Rules and Regulations, it may toll the effective date of
the proposed rates for an additional period of time as permitted by the FCC
Rules and Regulations, and issue any other necessary or appropriate order and
give public notice accordingly.
   4.   In the course of the rate regulation proceeding, the City may request
additional information from the Cable Operator that is reasonably necessary to
determine the reasonableness of the basic service tier rates and equipment
charges. Any such additional information submitted to the City shall be
verified by an appropriate official of the cable television system supervising
the preparation of the response on behalf of the entity, and submitted by way
of affidavit or under penalty of perjury, stating that the response is true and
accurate to the best of that person’s knowledge, information and belief formed
after reasonable inquiry.
   5.   The City may request proprietary information, provided that the City
shall consider a timely request from the Cable Operator that said proprietary
information shall not be made available for public information, consistent with
the procedures set forth in Section 0.459 of the FCC Rules and Regulations.
Furthermore, said proprietary information may be used only for the purpose of
determining the reasonableness of the rates and charges or the appropriate rate
level based on a cost-of-service showing submitted by the Cable Operator.
   6.   The City may exercise all powers under the laws of evidence applicable
to administrative proceedings under the laws of the State of Iowa and by this
Code of Ordinances to discover any information relevant to the rate regulation
proceeding, including, but not limited to, subpoena, interrogatories,
production of documents, and deposition.
   7.   Upon termination of the rate regulation proceeding, the City shall
adopt by resolution and release a written decision as to whether or not the
rates or proposed rate increase are reasonable or unreasonable, and, if
unreasonable, its remedy, including prospective rate reduction, rate
prescription, and refunds.
   8.   The City may not impose any fines, penalties, forfeitures or other
sanctions, other than permitted by the FCC Rules and Regulations, for charging
an unreasonable rate or proposing an unreasonable rate increase. However, the
City may impose monetary fines on a Cable Operator that does not comply with a
rate decision or refund order of the City, directed specifically at the Cable
Operator, pursuant to the laws of the State of Iowa and Section
1.10 of this Code of Ordinances. Each day a given violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense.
   9.   Consistent with FCC Rules and Regulations, the City’s decision may be
reviewed only by the FCC.
   10.   The City shall be authorized, at any time, whether or not in the
course of a rate regulation proceeding, to gather information as necessary to
exercise its jurisdiction as authorized by the laws of the State of Iowa, the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and the FCC Rules and Regulations. Any
information submitted to the City shall be verified by an appropriate official
of the cable television system supervising the preparation of the response on
behalf of the entity, and submitted by way of affidavit or under penalty of
perjury, stating that the response is true and accurate to the best of that
person’s knowledge, information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry.
112.03 CERTIFICATION TO FCC AND CABLE OPERATOR.
   The City shall file with the FCC the required certification form (FCC Form
328) on September 1, 1993, or as soon thereafter as appropriate. Thirty days
later, or as soon thereafter as appropriate, the City shall notify the Cable
Operator that the City has been certified by the FCC and that it has adopted
all necessary regulations so as to begin regulating basic service tier cable
television rates and equipment charges.
112.04 CABLE PROGRAMMING SERVICE TIER.
   With regard to the cable programming service tier, as defined by the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and the FCC Rules and Regulations, and
over which the City is not empowered to exercise rate regulation, the Cable
Operator shall give notice to the City of any change in rates for the cable
programming service tier or tiers, any change in the charge for equipment
required to receive the tier or tiers, and any changes in the nature of the
services provided, including the program services included in the tier or
tiers. Said notice shall be provided within five business days after the change
becomes effective.
112.05 DELEGATION OF POWERS PERMITTED.
   The City may delegate by resolution its powers to enforce this chapter to
municipal employees or officers (the “cable official”). The cable official will
have the authority to:
   1.   Administer oaths and affirmations;
   2.   Issue subpoenas;
   3.   Examine witnesses;
   4.   Rule upon questions of evidence;
   5.   Take or cause depositions to be taken;
   6.   Conduct proceedings in accordance with this chapter;
   7.   Exclude from the proceeding any person engaging in contemptuous conduct
or otherwise disrupting the proceedings;
   8.   Hold conferences for the settlement or simplification of the issues by
consent of the parties; and
   9.   Take actions and make decisions or recommend decisions in conformity
with this chapter.
CHAPTER 113
CABLE TELEVISION CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS
 
113.01 Enforcement of Customer Service Standards 113.03 Rules and Procedures
113.02 Notification                              113.04 Penalty
 
113.01 ENFORCEMENT OF CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS.
   The City has the legal authority to adopt and enforce customer service
standards for the cable television system in the City as permitted by the Cable
Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992. Upon review of the
customer service standards adopted by the FCC on March 11, 1993, by MM Docket
No. 92-263 of the FCC, and deeming it in the best interests of the City, the
Council hereby adopts by reference the above mentioned customer service
standards for cable television service.
113.02 NOTIFICATION.
   The Clerk shall notify the Cable Operator by registered mail with return
receipt that the City has adopted said customer service standards for cable
television service, to become effective upon written notification to Cable
Operator.
113.03 RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   The Council shall establish rules and procedures regarding the process to
remedy possible violations of the customer service standards by the Cable
Operator. The Council shall provide for notice and opportunity for hearing for
both the customers and the Cable Operator in such process.
113.04 PENALTY.
   If after notice and opportunity for hearing, the City determines that the
Cable Operator is not in complete compliance with all the provisions of the
customer service standards, the Cable Operator shall reduce the rate for the
basic tier of cable service by 25 percent until such time that the City has
been satisfied that the Cable Operator is in compliance with all the provisions
of the customer service standards. In addition, the Cable Operator shall pay to
the City the sum of $100.00 for each day that the Cable Operator fails to be in
compliance with all the provisions of the standards after the date that the
Council has passed a resolution stipulating the sections where the Cable
Operator is in noncompliance.
CHAPTER 120
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS
 
120.01 License or Permit Required 120.04 Action by Council
120.02 General Prohibition        120.05 Prohibited Sales and Acts
120.03 Investigation              120.06 Amusement Devices
 
120.01 LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, or offer or keep for
sale, alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a liquor control
license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122, and 123.171)
120.02 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer or keep for sale,
possess or transport alcoholic liquor, wine or beer except upon the terms,
conditions, limitations, and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the Code
of Iowa, and a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil penalty
may be imposed for a violation thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39, and 123.50)
120.03 INVESTIGATION.
   Upon receipt of an application for a retail alcohol license, the Clerk may
forward it to the Police Chief, who shall then conduct an investigation and
submit a written report as to the truth of the facts averred in the
application. The Fire Chief may also inspect the premises to determine if they
conform to the requirements of the City. The Council shall not approve an
application for a license for any premises that does not conform to the
applicable law and ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the City.
(Ord. 457 – Oct. 22 Supp.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.30)
120.04 ACTION BY COUNCIL.
   The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of a retail
alcohol license, shall endorse its approval or disapproval on the application,
and shall forward the application with the necessary fee and bond, if required,
to the Iowa Department of Revenue.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32[2])
(Section 120.04 – Ord. 463 – Apr. 24 Supp.)
120.05 PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
   A person holding a retail alcohol license and the person’s agents or
employees shall not do any of the following:
   1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic beverage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[1])
   2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage on the premises covered by the
license or permit its consumption thereon between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:
00 a.m. on any day of the week.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2b])
   3.   Sell alcoholic beverages to any person on credit, except with a bona
fide credit card. This provision does not apply to sales by a club to its
members, to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests, or to
retail sales by the managing entity of a convention center, civic center, or
events center.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2c])
   4.   Employ a person under 18 years of age in the sale or serving of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold, except as
follows:
      A.   Definitions. For use in this subsection the following terms are
defined as follows:
         (1)   “Bar” means an establishment where one may purchase alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises and in which the serving of food is
only incidental to the consumption of those beverages.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 142D.2[1])
         (2)   “Restaurant” means eating establishments, including private and
public school cafeterias, which offer food to the public, guests, or employees,
including the kitchen and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere, and including a bar area within a restaurant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 142D.2[17])
      B.   This subsection shall not apply if the employer has, on file,
written permission from the parent, guardian, or legal custodian of a person 16
or 17 years of age for the person to sell or serve alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises where sold. However, a person 16 or 17 years of age
shall not work in a bar as defined in Paragraph A.
         (1)   The employer shall keep a copy of the written permission on file
until the person is either 18 years of age or no longer engaged in the sale of
or serving alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
         (2)   If written permission is on file in accordance with Paragraph B,
a person 16 or 17 years of age may sell or serve alcoholic beverages in a
restaurant as defined above in Paragraph A during the hours in which the
restaurant serves food.
      C.   A person 16 or 17 years of age shall not sell or serve alcoholic
beverages under this subsection unless at least two employees 18 years of age
or older are physically present in the area where alcoholic beverages are sold
or served.
      D.   If a person employed under this subsection reports an incident of
workplace harassment to the employer or if the employer otherwise becomes aware
of such an incident, the employer shall report the incident to the employee’s
parent, guardian, or legal custodian and to the Iowa Civil Rights Commission,
which shall determine if any action is necessary or appropriate under Chapter
216 of the Code of Iowa.
      E.   An employer that employs a person under this subsection shall
require the person to attend training on prevention and response to sexual
harassment upon commencing employment.
      F.   Prior to a person commencing employment under this subsection, the
employer shall notify the employer’s dramshop liability insurer, in a form and
time period prescribed by the Director, that the employer is employing a person
under this subsection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2f])
   5.   In the case of a retail wine or beer permittee, knowingly allow the
mixing or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to wine, beer, or any
other beverage in or about the permittee’s place of business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2i])
   6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2a])
   7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2j])
   8.   Keep on premises covered by a retail alcohol license any alcoholic
liquor in any container except the original package purchased from the Iowa
Department of Revenue and except mixed drinks or cocktails mixed on the
premises for immediate consumption. However, mixed drinks or cocktails that are
mixed on the premises and are not for immediate consumption may be consumed on
the licensed premises, subject to rules adopted by the Iowa Department of
Revenue.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2d])
   9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or
receptacle used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or
adulterate, by the addition of any substance, the contents or remaining
contents of an original package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly
possess any original package that has been reused or adulterated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2e])
   10.   Allow any person other than the licensee or employees of the licensee
to use or keep on the licensed premises any alcoholic liquor in any bottle or
other container that is designed for the transporting of such beverages, except
as allowed by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2g])
   11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine that is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a vaporized
form.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2k])
(Section 120.05 – Ord. 463 – Apr. 24 Supp.)
120.06 AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   The following provisions pertain to electrical or mechanical amusement
devices possessed and used in accordance with Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa.
(Said devices are allowed only in premises with a retail alcohol license, as
specifically authorized in said Chapter 99B.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.57)
   1.   As used in this section, “registered electrical or mechanical amusement
device” means an electrical or mechanical device required to be registered with
the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals, as provided in Section 99B.53 of
the Code of Iowa.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to participate in the
operation of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing a registered electrical
or mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing a
registered electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 21 to participate in the operation of a registered
electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the operation
of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under
the age of 21.
(Section 120.06 – Ord. 457 – Oct. 22 Supp.)
CHAPTER 121
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS
 
121.01 Definitions             121.06 Refunds
121.02 Permit Required         121.07 Persons Under Legal Age
121.03 Application             121.08 Self-Service Sales Prohibited
121.04 Fees                    121.09 Permit Revocation
121.05 Issuance and Expiration  
121.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)
   1.   “Alternative nicotine product” means a product, not consisting of or
containing tobacco, that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing, or
by any other means. “Alternative nicotine product” does not include cigarettes,
tobacco products, or vapor products, or a product that is regulated as a drug
or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of
tobacco, or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and
irrespective of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored,
adulterated, or mixed with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper
or cover made of paper or any other material. However, cigarette shall not be
construed to include cigars.
   3.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are sold, stored, or kept for
the purpose of sale or consumption by a retailer.
   4.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes or offers for sale
for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for consumption,
cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products, irrespective of
the quantity or amount or the number of sales, or who engages in the business
of selling tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products to ultimate consumers.
   5.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display, placement,
or storage from which a person purchasing the product may take possession of
the product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the retailer or
employee of the retailer, in removing the product from a restricted access
location.
   6.   “Tobacco products” means the following: cigars; little cigars;
cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed and
other smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and
other chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings and
sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such
manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or for
both chewing and smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.
   7.   “Vapor product” means any noncombustible product, which may or may not
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic
circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of
shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other
substance. “Vapor product” includes an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any
cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which may or may
not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device. “Vapor product” does not include a product regulated as a
drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter
V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
121.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   Retail Cigarette Permits. It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes, alternative nicotine products,
or vapor products at retail and no retailer shall distribute, sell, or solicit
the sale of any cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products
within the City without a valid permit for each place of business. The permit
shall, at all times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be
easily seen by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13)
   2.   Retail Tobacco Permits. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products at any place of business without first having
received a permit as a retailer for each place of business owned or operated by
the retailer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A)
A retailer who holds a retail cigarette permit is not required to also obtain a
retail tobacco permit. However, if a retailer only holds a retail cigarette
permit and that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the retailer shall
not sell any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products, during such time.
121.03 APPLICATION.
   A completed application on forms furnished by the State Department of
Revenue or on forms made available or approved by the Department and
accompanied by the required fee shall be filed with the Clerk. Renewal
applications shall be filed at least five days prior to the last regular
meeting of the Council in June. If a renewal application is not timely filed,
and a special Council meeting is called to act on the application, the costs of
such special meeting shall be paid by the applicant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.04 FEES.
   The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
 
FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:    FEE:
July, August, or September     $ 75.00
October, November, or December $ 56.25
January, February, or March    $ 37.50
April, May, or June            $ 18.75
 
121.05 ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.
   Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, a permit shall be
issued. Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for
which it is issued and shall be nonassignable. All permits expire on June 30 of
each year. The Clerk shall submit a duplicate of any application for a permit
to the Iowa Department of Revenue within 30 days of issuance of a permit.
(Section 121.05 – Ord. 463 – Apr. 24 Supp.)
121.06 REFUNDS.
   A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.07 PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
   A person shall not sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes to any
person under 21 years of age. The provision of this section includes
prohibiting a person under 21 years of age from purchasing tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, and cigarettes from a
vending machine. If a retailer or employee of a retailer violates the
provisions of this section, the Council shall, after written notice and
hearing, and in addition to the other penalties fixed for such violation,
assess the following:
   1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty
in the amount of $300.00. Failure to pay the civil penalty as ordered under
this subsection shall result in automatic suspension of the permit for a period
of 14 days.
   2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 or the retailer’s permit
shall be suspended for a period of 30 days. The retailer may select its
preference in the penalty to be applied under this subsection.
   3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
   4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 60 days.
   5.   For a fifth violation within a period of four years, the retailer’s
permit shall be revoked.
   The Clerk shall give 10 days’ written notice to the retailer by mailing a
copy of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the application
for a permit. The notice shall state the reason for the contemplated action and
the time and place at which the retailer may appear and be heard.
(Section 121.07 - Ord. 450 - Apr. 21 Supp.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22, and 453A.36[6])
121.08 SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.
   Except for the sale of cigarettes through a cigarette vending machine as
provided in Section 453A.36[6] of the Code of Iowa, a retailer shall not sell
or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, or cigarettes through the use of a self-service display.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)
121.09 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by
the Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or
any rule adopted thereunder. If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be
issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person
for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has
expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown
to the Council. The Clerk shall report the revocation or suspension of a retail
permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within
30 days of the revocation or suspension.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)
CHAPTER 122
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
122.01 Purpose                  122.10 Time Restriction
122.02 Definitions              122.11 Revocation of License
122.03 License Required         122.12 Hearing
122.04 Application for License  122.13 Record and Determination
122.05 License Fees             122.14 Appeal
122.06 Bond Required            122.15 Effect of Revocation
122.07 License Issued           122.16 Rebates
122.08 Display of License       122.17 License Exemptions
122.09 License Not Transferable 122.18 Charitable and Nonprofit Organizations
 
122.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect residents of the City against
fraud, unfair competition, and intrusion into the privacy of their homes by
licensing and regulating peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants.
122.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Peddler” means any person carrying goods or merchandise who sells or
offers for sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise from house to
house or upon the public street.
   2.   “Solicitor” means any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from
house to house or upon the public street any contribution or donation or any
order for goods, services, subscriptions or merchandise to be delivered at a
future date.
   3.   “Transient merchant” means any person who engages in a temporary or
itinerant merchandising business and in the course of such business hires,
leases or occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who operates out of
a vehicle that is parked anywhere within the City limits. Temporary association
with a local merchant, dealer, trader or auctioneer, or conduct of such
transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any
local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer does not exempt any person from
being considered a transient merchant.
122.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting or in the business of a
transient merchant in the City without first obtaining a license as herein
provided is in violation of this chapter.
122.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application in writing shall be filed with the Clerk for a license under
this chapter. Such application shall set forth the applicant’s name, permanent
and local address, and business address if any. The application shall also set
forth the applicant’s employer, if any, and the employer’s address, the nature
of the applicant’s business, the last three places of such business and the
length of time sought to be covered by the license. An application fee of $2.00
shall be paid at the time of filing such application to cover the cost of
investigating the facts stated therein.
122.05 LICENSE FEES.
   A license fee in the amount of $5.00 per person per day shall be paid to the
Clerk prior to the issuance of any license.
122.06 BOND REQUIRED.
   Before a license under this chapter is issued to a transient merchant, an
applicant shall provide to the Clerk evidence that the applicant has filed a
bond with the Secretary of State in accordance with Chapter 9C of the Code of
Iowa.
122.07 LICENSE ISSUED.
   If the Clerk finds the application is completed in conformance with the
requirements of this chapter, the facts stated therein are found to be correct,
and the license fee paid, a license shall be issued immediately.
122.08 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Each solicitor or peddler shall keep such license in possession at all times
while doing business in the City and shall, upon the request of prospective
customers, exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with all requirements
of this chapter. Each transient merchant shall display publicly such merchant’s
license in the merchant’s place of business.
122.09 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application.
122.10 TIME RESTRICTION.
   All peddler’s and solicitor’s licenses shall provide that said licenses are
in force and effect only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
122.11 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the Clerk may
revoke any license issued pursuant to this chapter for the following reasons:
   1.   Fraudulent Statements. The licensee has made fraudulent statements in
the application for the license or in the conduct of the business.
   2.   Violation of Law. The licensee has violated this chapter or has
otherwise conducted the business in an unlawful manner.
   3.   Endangered Public Welfare, Health, or Safety. The licensee has
conducted the business in such manner as to endanger the public welfare,
safety, order, or morals.
The Clerk shall send the written notice to the licensee at the licensee’s local
address. The notice shall contain particulars of the complaints against the
licensee, the ordinance provisions or State statutes allegedly violated, and
the date, time, and place for hearing on the matter.
122.12 HEARING.
   The Clerk shall conduct a hearing at which both the licensee and any
complainants shall be present to determine the truth of the facts alleged in
the complaint and notice. Should the licensee, or authorized representative,
fail to appear without good cause, the Clerk may proceed to a determination of
the complaint.
122.13 RECORD AND DETERMINATION.
   The Clerk shall make and record findings of fact and conclusions of law, and
shall revoke a license only when upon review of the entire record the Clerk
finds clear and convincing evidence of substantial violation of this chapter or
State law.
122.14 APPEAL.
   If the Clerk revokes or refuses to issue a license, the Clerk shall make a
part of the record the reasons for such revocation or refusal. The licensee, or
the applicant, shall have a right to a hearing before the Council at its next
regular meeting. The Council may reverse, modify, or affirm the decision of the
Clerk by a majority vote of the Council members present and the Clerk shall
carry out the decision of the Council.
122.15 EFFECT OF REVOCATION.
   Revocation of any license shall bar the licensee from being eligible for any
license under this chapter for a period of one year from the date of the
revocation.
122.16 REBATES.
   Any licensee, except in the case of a revoked license, shall be entitled to
a rebate of part of the fee paid if the license is surrendered before it
expires. The amount of the rebate shall be determined by dividing the total
license fee by the number of days for which the license was issued and then
multiplying the result by the number of full days not expired. In all cases, at
least $5.00 of the original fee shall be retained by the City to cover
administrative costs.
122.17 LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are excluded from the application of this chapter.
   1.   Newspapers. Persons delivering, collecting for, or selling
subscriptions to newspapers.
   2.   Club Members. Members of local civic and service clubs, Boy Scout, Girl
Scout, 4-H Clubs, Future Farmers of America, and similar organizations.
   3.   Local Residents and Farmers. Local residents and farmers who offer for
sale their own products.
   4.   Students. Students representing the local school district conducting
projects sponsored by organizations recognized by the school.
   5.   Route Sales. Route delivery persons who only incidentally solicit
additional business or make special sales.
   6.   Resale or Institutional Use. Persons customarily calling on businesses
or institutions for the purposes of selling products for resale or
institutional use.
122.18 CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
   Authorized representatives of charitable or nonprofit organizations
operating under the provisions of Chapter 504 of the Code of Iowa desiring to
solicit money or to distribute literature are exempt from the operation of
Sections
122.04 and
122.05. All such organizations are required to submit in writing to the Clerk
the name and purpose of the cause for which such activities are sought, names
and addresses of the officers and directors of the organization, the period
during which such activities are to be carried on, and whether any commissions,
fees or wages are to be charged by the solicitor and the amount thereof. If the
Clerk finds that the organization is a bona fide charity or nonprofit
organization, the Clerk shall issue, free of charge, a license containing the
above information to the applicant. In the event the Clerk denies the
exemption, the authorized representatives of the organization may appeal the
decision to the Council, as provided in Section
122.14 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 123
HOUSE MOVERS
 
123.01 House Mover Defined 123.07 Permit Issued
123.02 Permit Required     123.08 Public Safety
123.03 Application         123.09 Time Limit
123.04 Bond Required       123.10 Removal by City
123.05 Insurance Required  123.11 Protect Pavement
123.06 Permit Fee          123.12 Overhead Wires
 
123.01 HOUSE MOVER DEFINED.
   A “house mover” means any person who undertakes to move a building or
similar structure upon, over or across public streets or property when the
building or structure is of such size that it requires the use of skids, jacks,
dollies, or any other specialized moving equipment.
123.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the activity of house mover as
herein defined without a valid permit from the City for each house, building or
similar structure to be moved. Buildings of less than 100 square feet are
exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
123.03 APPLICATION.
   Application for a house mover’s permit shall be made in writing to the
Clerk. The application shall include:
   1.   Name and Address. The applicant’s full name and address and, if a
corporation, the names and addresses of its principal officers.
   2.   Building Location. An accurate description of the present location and
future site of the building or similar structure to be moved.
   3.   Routing Plan. A routing plan approved by the Clerk, street
superintendent, and public utility officials. The route approved shall be the
shortest route compatible with the greatest public convenience and safety.
123.04 BOND REQUIRED.
   The applicant shall post with the Clerk a penal bond in the minimum sum of
$5,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue such bonds in the
State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for any damage done to
the City or to public property, and payment of all costs incurred by the City
in the course of moving the building or structure.
123.05 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   Each applicant shall also file a certificate of insurance indicating that
the applicant is carrying public liability insurance in effect for the duration
of the permit covering the applicant and all agents and employees for the
following minimum amounts:
   1.   Bodily Injury – $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
   2.   Property Damage – $50,000.00 per accident.
123.06 PERMIT FEE.
   A permit fee of $50.00 shall be payable at the time of filing the
application with the Clerk. A separate permit shall be required for each house,
building or similar structure to be moved.
123.07 PERMIT ISSUED.
   Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and insurance certificate,
and payment of the required fee, the Clerk shall issue a permit.
123.08 PUBLIC SAFETY.
   At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon any
street, alley, sidewalk or public property, the permittee shall maintain flag
persons at the closest intersections or other possible channels of traffic to
the sides, behind and ahead of the building or structure. At all times when the
building or structure is at rest upon any street, alley, sidewalk or public
property the permittee shall maintain adequate warning signs or lights at the
intersections or channels of traffic to the sides, behind and ahead of the
building or structure.
123.09 TIME LIMIT.
   No house mover shall permit or allow a building or similar structure to
remain upon any street or other public way for a period of more than 12 hours
without having first secured the written approval of the City.
123.10 REMOVAL BY CITY.
   In the event any building or similar structure is found to be in violation
of Section
123.09, the City is authorized to remove such building or structure and assess
the costs thereof against the permit holder and the surety on the permit
holder’s bond.
123.11 PROTECT PAVEMENT.
   It is unlawful to move any house or building of any kind over any pavement,
unless the wheels or rollers upon which the house or building is moved are at
least one inch in width for each 1,000 pounds of weight of such building. If
there is any question as to the weight of a house or building, the estimate of
the City as to such weight shall be final.
123.12 OVERHEAD WIRES.
   The holder of any permit to move a building shall see that all telephone,
cable television and electric wires and poles are removed when necessary and
replaced in good order, and shall be liable for the costs of the same.
CHAPTER 124
ANHYDROUS AMMONIA STORAGE
 
124.01 Permit to Construct Storage 124.04 Shipper’s Responsibility
124.02 Limitations                 124.05 Operation of Facility
124.03 Movable Storage
 
124.01 PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT STORAGE.
   A building permit is required for construction of anhydrous ammonia storage
and handling facilities. Before a building permit for an installation for the
storage of anhydrous ammonia may be granted by the City, the applicant shall
present, for review, a set of plans for such installation which shall bear the
approval of the proposed plans by the authorized officer acting for the Iowa
Secretary of Agriculture. Such installation shall be constructed in accordance
with said plans and shall not be used for storage until in compliance with said
plans and with the rules of the Secretary of Agriculture and the national
standards for anhydrous ammonia adopted by said rules.
124.02 LIMITATIONS.
   For the protection of the health and safety of the inhabitants of the City,
the Council declares that no installation shall be permitted closer than 300
feet from any dwelling existing prior to the application for construction or
400 feet from any school, hospital or place of public assembly, places where 25
or more persons are want to be present and all of the above to include the
grounds of the school and hospital. No installation in existence prior to the
adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter shall be enlarged contrary
to the applicable State rules or this chapter, nor shall the same be operated
contrary to the State rules or the safety rules set out in the January 1972
edition of American National Standard Safety Requirements for the Storage and
Handling of Anhydrous Ammonia, ANSI K 61.1.
124.03 MOVABLE STORAGE.
   For the protection of the health and safety of the inhabitants of the City
the Council declares that no tank truck containing anhydrous ammonia shall be
stored or parked closer than 400 feet to built-up areas of the City. “Built-up
areas” are the commercial areas in which buildings occupy more than 50 percent
of the land or where the property is used for public assembly, schools,
churches and assembly halls. In addition, such trucks shall not be parked
closer than 300 feet from any dwelling. In considering plans for fixed storage
facilities, the location of tank trucks involved with such facilities shall be
considered and measured distances to residences and built-up areas shall be
taken from the outer periphery of such movable storage included with the
property of the fixed installation.
124.04 SHIPPER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   No transportation company or agent thereof or truck driver shall leave a
tank truck for longer than an hour at any place which does not comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
124.05 OPERATION OF FACILITY.
   The owner and operator of an anhydrous ammonia facility and/or equipment
shall be responsible for the safety training of all handlers and the
observances by them of the safe operation of the equipment and installation for
anhydrous ammonia. Failure to observe such safe practices shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
CHAPTER 125
HOTEL-MOTEL TAX
 
125.01 Definitions       125.03 Use of Funds
125.02 Imposition of Tax
 
125.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,
certain words and terms are hereby defined as follows:
   1.   “Lessor” means any person engaged in the business of renting lodging to
users.
   2.   “Lodging” means rooms, apartments, or sleeping quarters in a hotel,
motel, inn, public lodging house, rooming house, or manufactured or mobile home
which is tangible personal property, or in a tourist court, or in any place
where sleeping accommodations are furnished to transient guests for rent,
whether with or without meals.
   3.   “Person” means the same as the term is defined in Section 423.1, Code
of Iowa, as amended.
   4.   “Renting” or “rent” means a transfer of possession or control of
lodging for a fixed or indeterminate term for consideration and includes any
kind of direct or indirect charge for such lodging or its use.
   5.   “Sales price” means the consideration for renting of lodging and means
the same as the term is defined in Section 423.1, Code of Iowa, as amended.
   6.   “User” means a person to whom lodging is rented.
125.02 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   A tax of seven percent shall be and the same is hereby imposed upon the
sales price from the renting of lodging as provided by Chapter 423A, Code of
Iowa, as amended, which includes the renting of rooms, apartments, or sleeping
quarters in a hotel, motel, inn, public lodging house, rooming house, or
manufactured or mobile home which is tangible personal property, or in a
tourist court, or in any place where sleeping accommodations are furnished to
transient guests for rent, whether with or without meals.
125.03 USE OF FUNDS.
   The revenues derived from the Hotel and Motel Tax authorized by this chapter
shall be used as follows:
      A.   The City of Bedford, Iowa, shall spend 50 percent of the revenues
derived therefrom for the acquisition of sites for, or constructing, improving,
enlarging, equipping, repairing, operating, or maintaining of recreation,
convention, cultural, or entertainment facilities including but not limited to
memorial buildings, halls and monuments, civic center convention buildings,
auditoriums, coliseums, and parking areas or facilities located at those
recreation, convention, cultural, or entertainment facilities or the payment of
principal and interest, when due, on bonds or other evidence of indebtedness
issued by the City for those recreation, convention, cultural, or entertainment
facilities; or for the promotion and encouragement of tourist and convention
business in the City and surrounding areas.
      B.   The remaining revenues derived therefrom may be spent by the City
for any City operations authorized by law as a proper purpose for the
expenditure within the statutory limitations of City revenues derived from ad
valorem taxes.
CHAPTER 135
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE
 
135.01 Removal of Warning Devices 135.07 Washing Vehicles
135.02 Obstructing or Defacing    135.08 Burning Prohibited
135.03 Placing Debris On          135.09 Excavations
135.04 Playing In                 135.10 Property Owner’s Responsibility for
                                  Maintenance
135.05 Traveling on Barricaded    135.11 Failure to Maintain
Street or Alley
135.06 Use for Business Purposes  135.12 Dumping of Snow
 
135.01 REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.
   It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy or
carry away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard or other
article or things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected or placed
thereupon for the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places
in said street or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.02 OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.
   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface or injure any street or
alley in any manner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.03 PLACING DEBRIS ON.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or alley any
glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter,
offal, leaves, grass or any other debris likely to be washed into the storm
sewer and clog the storm sewer, or any substance likely to injure any person,
animal or vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)
135.04 PLAYING IN.
   It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled, or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.05 TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.
   It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street
or alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed
thereon by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer or
member of the Fire Department.
135.06 USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
   It is unlawful to park, store or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Council.
135.07 WASHING VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street, or alley
for the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or any
vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business. This does
not prevent any person from washing or cleaning his or her own vehicle or
equipment when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.
135.08 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or other combustible
material in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.
135.09 EXCAVATIONS.
   No person shall dig, excavate or in any manner disturb any street, parking
or alley except in accordance with the following:
   1.   Permit Required. No excavation shall be commenced without first
obtaining a permit therefor. A written application for such permit shall be
filed with the City and shall contain the following:
      A.   An exact description of the property, by lot and street number, in
front of or along which it is desired to excavate;
      B.   A statement of the purpose, for whom and by whom the excavation is
to be made;
      C.   The person responsible for the refilling of said excavation and
restoration of the street or alley surface; and
      D.   Date of commencement of the work and estimated completion date.
   2.   Public Convenience. Streets and alleys shall be opened in the manner
which will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the
uninterrupted passage of water along the gutter on the street. The permit
holder/property owner must call the Iowa One Call service at least 48 hours
prior to making any excavation.
   3.   Barricades, Fencing and Lighting. Adequate barricades, fencing and
warning lights meeting standards specified by the City shall be so placed as to
protect the public from hazard. Any costs incurred by the City in providing or
maintaining adequate barricades, fencing or warning lights shall be paid to the
City by the permit holder/property owner.
   4.   Restoration of Public Property. Streets, sidewalks, alleys and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to the
condition of the property prior to the commencement of the work, or in a manner
satisfactory to the City, at the expense of the permit holder/property owner.
   5.   Streets Having Brick Surfaces. Any street having a brick surface shall
be preserved, maintained, restored, and re-laid at a minimum as follows:
      A.   The area beneath any removed patch shall be excavated and if the
base is concrete, placed in a base equal to or better than the concrete base of
the undisturbed bricks which adjoin the area in which the work is being done.
In the event the base is not concrete, then the area beneath any removed patch
shall be excavated, six to 10 inches of Class A crushed stone shall be placed
and compacted, followed by one and one-half inches of fairly coarse sand, and
then topped with one to two inches of washed sand. The washed sand shall be
screened off to match the crown of the street both for appearance and drainage.
The bricks being re-laid shall then be placed on this base. Next, a 3:1 mixture
of masonry sand and Portland cement shall be swept over the surface of the
bricks to fill the gaps between them. This mixture will absorb moisture and
lock the bricks together to form a continuous pavement surface to match the
existing undisturbed brick surface in quality, appearance, color and texture. A
plate vibrator shall then be used to seat the bricks in the sand and bring the
bricks to their proper elevation. This vibrating procedure normally lowers the
elevation of the bricks by one-fourth to one-half inch. The sand-cement mixture
shall then be swept over the whole surface again to fill any gaps between the
bricks. If bricks are used other than those removed, the replacement bricks
shall match the undisturbed bricks in quality, size, appearance and texture.
      B.   The procedures set forth in subsection A of this subsection shall be
adhered to at the following locations:
 
Street Name      Location
Court Avenue     from Washington to Pearl
Central Avenue   from Washington to Pearl
Dodge Street     from Washington to Jefferson
Jefferson Street from Madison to State
Main Street      from Madison to State
 
   C.   Each year during February, the Mayor, with the advice of the respective
City departments that may be involved, shall submit a written proposal to the
Council for approval which shall detail progress made in maintaining and
restoring the City’s brick streets and shall plan and set forth work to be done
by the City in the coming year to continue the restoration, maintenance and
upkeep of the brick streets.
      D.   Paving or covering of brick streets in residential areas shall be
considered on a case-by-case basis with Council approval.
   6.   Inspection. All work shall be subject to inspection by the City.
Backfill shall not be deemed completed, and no resurfacing of any improved
street or alley surface shall begin, until such backfill is inspected and
approved by the City. The permit holder/property owner shall provide the City
with notice at least 24 hours prior to the time when inspection of backfill is
desired.
   7.   Completion by the City. Should any excavation in any street or alley be
discontinued or left open and unfinished for a period of 24 hours after the
approved completion date, or in the event the work is improperly done, the City
has the right to finish or correct the excavation work and charge any expenses
therefor to the permit holder/property owner.
   8.   Responsibility for Costs. All costs and expenses incident to the
excavation shall be borne by the permit holder and/or property owner. The
permit holder and owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by such excavation.
   9.   Notification. At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
excavation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, the person
performing the excavation shall contact the Statewide Notification Center and
provide the center with the information required under Section 480.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
   10.   Permit Issued. Upon approval of the application, a permit shall be
issued. A separate permit shall be required for each excavation.
135.10 PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   The abutting property owner shall maintain all property outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines upon public streets and shall keep
such area in a safe condition, free from nuisances, obstructions, and hazards.
In the absence of a curb, such property shall extend from the property line to
that portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner shall not be required to remove diseased trees or dead
wood on the publicly owned property or right-of-way. Maintenance includes, but
is not limited to, timely mowing, trimming trees and shrubs, and picking up
litter and debris. The abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused
by failure to maintain the publicly owned property or right-of-way.† 6
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
 
Notes
6 † EDITOR’S NOTE: See also Section 136.04 relating to property owner’s
  responsibility for maintenance of sidewalks.
135.11 FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
   If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within a reasonable time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e])
135.12 DUMPING OF SNOW.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, push, or place or cause to be
thrown, pushed or placed, any ice or snow from private property, sidewalks, or
driveways onto the traveled way of a street or alley so as to obstruct gutters,
or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or alley or to create a
hazardous condition therein; except where, in the cleaning of large commercial
drives in the business district it is absolutely necessary to move the snow
onto the street or alley temporarily, such accumulation shall be removed
promptly by the property owner or agent. Arrangements for the prompt removal of
such accumulations shall be made prior to moving the snow.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
136.01 Purpose                               136.11 Interference with Sidewalk
                                             Improvements
136.02 Definitions                           136.12 Awnings
136.03 Removal of Snow, Ice, and             136.13 Encroaching Steps
Accumulations
136.04 Property Owner’s Responsibility for 136.14 Openings and Enclosures
Maintenance
136.05 City May Order Repairs                136.15 Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
136.06 Sidewalk Construction Ordered         136.16 Defacing
136.07 Permit Required                       136.17 Debris on Sidewalks
136.08 Sidewalk Standards                    136.18 Merchandise Display
136.09 Barricades and Warning Lights         136.19 Sales Stands
136.10 Failure to Repair or Barricade        136.20 Damaging Curbs, Sidewalks
                                             and Parkings
 
136.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner
and to minimize the liability of the City.
136.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Broom finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping the
sidewalk when it is hardening.
   2.   “Established grade” means that grade established by the City for the
particular area in which a sidewalk is to be constructed.
   3.   “One-course construction” means that the full thickness of the concrete
is placed at one time, using the same mixture throughout.
   4.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property abutting any
sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of notification
required herein. For all other purposes, “owner” includes the lessee, if any.
   5.   “Portland cement” means any type of cement except bituminous cement.
   6.   “Sidewalk” means all permanent public walks in business, residential or
suburban areas.
   7.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction, repair,
replacement, or removal, of a public sidewalk and/or the excavating, filling or
depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection therewith.
   8.   “Wood float finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by smoothing
the surface of the sidewalk with a wooden trowel.
136.03 REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, AND ACCUMULATIONS.
   The abutting property owner shall remove snow, ice, and accumulations
promptly from sidewalks. If a property owner does not remove snow, ice, or
accumulations within 48 hours, the City may do so and assess the costs against
the property owner for collection in the same manner as a property tax. The
abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to remove
snow, ice, and accumulations promptly from the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2b & e])
136.04 PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   The abutting property owner shall maintain in a safe and hazard-free
condition any sidewalk outside the lot and property lines and inside the curb
lines or, in the absence of a curb, any sidewalk between the property line and
that portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes.   
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2)(c))
(Section 136.04 – Ord. 468 – Mar. 25 Supp.)
136.05 CITY MAY ORDER REPAIRS.
   If the abutting property owner does not maintain sidewalks as required, the
Council may serve notice on such owner, by certified mail, requiring the owner
to repair, replace or reconstruct sidewalks within a reasonable time and if
such action is not completed within the time stated in the notice, the Council
may require the work to be done and assess the costs against the abutting
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2d and e])
136.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDERED.
   The Council may order the construction of permanent sidewalks upon any
street or court in the City and may specially assess the cost of such
improvement to abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 384 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)
136.07 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall remove, reconstruct, or install a sidewalk unless such
person has obtained a permit from the City and has agreed in writing that said
removal, reconstruction, or installation will comply with all ordinances and
requirements of the City for such work. A written application for such permit
shall be filed with the City.
136.08 SIDEWALK STANDARDS.
   Sidewalks repaired, replaced, or constructed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be of the following construction and meet the following
standards:
   1.   Cement. Portland cement shall be the only cement used in the
construction and repair of sidewalks.
   2.   Construction. Sidewalks shall be of one-course construction.
   3.   Sidewalk Base. Concrete may be placed directly on compact and well-
drained soil. Where soil is not well drained, a three-inch sub-base of compact,
clean, coarse gravel or sand shall be laid. The adequacy of the soil drainage
is to be determined by the City.
   4.   Sidewalk Bed. The sidewalk bed shall be so graded that the constructed
sidewalk will be at established grade.
   5.   Length, Width and Depth. Length, width and depth requirements are as
follows:
      A.   Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide and four
inches thick, and each section shall be no more than four feet in length.
      B.   Business District sidewalks shall extend from the property line to
the curb. Each section shall be four inches thick and no more than six feet in
length.
      C.   Driveway areas shall be not less than six inches in thickness.
   6.   Location. Residential sidewalks shall be located with the inner edge
(edge nearest the abutting private property) one foot from the property line,
unless the Council establishes a different distance due to special
circumstances.
   7.   Grade. Curb tops shall be on level with the centerline of the street,
which is the established grade.
   8.   Elevations. The street edge of a sidewalk shall be at an elevation even
with the curb at the curb or not less than one-half inch above the curb for
each foot between the curb and the sidewalk.
   9.   Slope. All sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch per foot toward the
curb.
   10.   Finish. All sidewalks shall be finished with a broom finish or wood
float finish.
   11.   Curb Ramps and Sloped Areas for Persons with Disabilities. If a
street, road, or highway is newly built or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped
area shall be constructed or installed at each intersection of the street,
road, or highway with a sidewalk or path. If a sidewalk or path is newly built
or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area shall be constructed or installed
at each intersection of the sidewalk or path with a street, highway, or road.
Curb ramps and sloped areas that are required pursuant to this subsection shall
be constructed or installed in compliance with applicable federal requirements
adopted in accordance with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act,
including (but not limited to) the guidelines issued by the Federal
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 216C.9)
The downtown park located upon the east one-third of Lot 1 in Block 10 of the
recorded plat of the Original Town (now City) of Bedford, Taylor County, Iowa,
and the west one-third of Lot 4 in Block 15, in the Original Town (now City) of
Bedford, Taylor County, Iowa, is hereby exempt from this section.
136.09 BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue,
highway, passageway or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or when
any sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places at
each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material deposited in
the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or flares, and to
keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect sufficient barricades
both at night and in the daytime to secure the same. The party or parties using
the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter shall be liable
for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any wrongful act
or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or employees or for any
misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of any failure to comply
with provisions hereof.
136.10 FAILURE TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.
   It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk, or the
owner’s contractor or agent, to notify the City immediately in the event of
failure or inability to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect necessary barricades as required by this chapter.
136.11 INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
   No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or upon
any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove or
destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove,
destroy, mar or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy, mar, remove or
deface any notice provided by this chapter.
136.12 AWNINGS.
   It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any awning over any
sidewalk unless all parts of the awning are elevated at least eight feet above
the surface of the sidewalk and the roof or covering is made of duck, canvas or
other suitable material supported by iron frames or brackets securely fastened
to the building, without any posts or other device that will obstruct the
sidewalk or hinder or interfere with the free passage of pedestrians.
136.13 ENCROACHING STEPS.
   It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of the
Council.
136.14 OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.
   It is unlawful for a person to:
   1.   Stairs and Railings. Construct or build a stairway or passageway to any
cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose any
portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of the
Council.
   2.   Openings. Keep open any cellar door, grating, or cover to any vault on
any sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect the
public.
   3.   Protect Openings. Neglect to properly protect or barricade all openings
on or within six feet of any sidewalk.
136.15 FIRES OR FUEL ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.
136.16 DEFACING.
   It is unlawful for a person to scatter or place any paste, paint, or writing
on any sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
136.17 DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal,
or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
136.18 MERCHANDISE DISPLAY.
   It is unlawful for a person to place upon or above any sidewalk, any goods
or merchandise for sale or for display in such a manner as to interfere with
the free and uninterrupted passage of pedestrians on the sidewalk; in no case
shall more than three feet of the sidewalk next to the building be occupied for
such purposes.
136.19 SALES STANDS.
   It is unlawful for a person to erect or keep any vending machine or stand
for the sale of fruit, vegetables or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.
136.20 DAMAGING CURBS, SIDEWALKS AND PARKINGS.
   No person shall damage any sidewalk, parking or curb on or along any street
in the City or cause any trees, shrubbery or grass in any parking to be broken,
defaced or injured by driving or leading thereon any animal or vehicle or by
willfully or habitually walking upon the parking or by doing any other willful
act.
CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS
 
137.01 Power to Vacate                137.04 Findings Required
137.02 Planning and Zoning Commission 137.05 Disposal of Vacated Streets or
                                      Alleys
137.03 Notice of Vacation Hearing     137.06 Disposal by Gift Limited
 
137.01 POWER TO VACATE.
   When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of
the City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2a])
137.02 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   Any proposal to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public
grounds shall be referred by the Council to the Planning and Zoning Commission
for its study and recommendation prior to further consideration by the Council.
The Commission shall submit a written report including recommendations to the
Council within 30 days after the date the proposed vacation is referred to the
Commission.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
137.03 NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.
   The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the
time at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.
137.04 FINDINGS REQUIRED.
   No street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:
   1.   Public Use. The street, alley, portion thereof, or any public ground
proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and therefore,
its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified.
   2.   Abutting Property. The proposed vacation will not deny owners of
property abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.
137.05 DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public ground,
the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 364.7, Code
of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)
137.06 DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.
   The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental
body for a public purpose or to a fair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 174.15[2] & 364.7[3])
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED            ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
147           October 4, 1915
148           March 20, 1916
187           May 23, 1934
199           August 3, 1937
204           September 1, 1941
205           March 1, 1943
206           October 6, 1943
207           June 4, 1945
208           June 4, 1945
209           February 4, 1946
213           February 3, 1948
215           Undated
222           December 5, 1949
224           April 3, 1950
226           May 7, 1951
227           August 6, 1951
228           October 1, 1951
233           December 7, 1953
264           May 25, 1964
303           April 11, 1977
415           February 9, 2011
418           September 12, 2012
421           December 12, 2012
 
CHAPTER 138
STREET GRADES
 
138.01 Established Grades 138.02 Record Maintained
 
138.01 ESTABLISHED GRADES.
   The grades of all streets, alleys and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance, are hereby confirmed, ratified, and established as
official grades.
138.02 RECORD MAINTAINED.
   The Clerk shall maintain a record of all established grades and furnish
information concerning such grades upon request.
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED           ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
127           February 16, 1912
130           February 16, 1912
142           March 24, 1914
151           Undated
181           April 21, 1927
 
CHAPTER 139
NAMING OF STREETS
 
139.01 Naming New Streets      139.04 Official Street Name Map
139.02 Changing Name of Street 139.05 Revision of Street Name Map
139.03 Recording Street Names
 
139.01 NAMING NEW STREETS.
   New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
   1.   Extension of Existing Street. Streets added to the City that are
natural extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the
existing street.
   2.   Resolution. All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by resolution.
   3.   Planning and Zoning Commission. Proposed street names shall be referred
to the Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation.
139.02 CHANGING NAME OF STREET.
   The Council may, by resolution, change the name of a street.
139.03 RECORDING STREET NAMES.
   Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the Clerk
shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County Auditor and County
Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)
139.04 OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
   Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map,
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: “This is to certify
that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in Section
139.04 of the Code of Ordinances of Bedford, Iowa.”
139.05 REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.
   If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the change has been approved by the Council with an entry on the
Official Street Name Map as follows: “On (date), by official action of the City
Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map:
(brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the Clerk.
 
CHAPTER 140
CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES
 
140.01 Exercise of Police Power 140.05 Unlawful Use of Controlled Access
                                Facility
140.02 Definition               140.06 Permitted Access Points
140.03 Right of Access Limited  140.07 Speed Limits
140.04 Access Controls Imposed  140.08 Parking Restricted
 
140.01 EXERCISE OF POLICE POWER.
   This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the City
under Chapter 306A, Code of Iowa, for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety and for the promotion of the general welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.1)
140.02 DEFINITION.
   The term “controlled access facility” means a highway or street especially
designed for through traffic, and over, from or to which owners or occupants of
abutting land or other persons have no right or easement or only a controlled
right or easement of access, light, air, or view by reason of the fact that
their property abuts upon such controlled access facility or for any other
reason.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.2)
140.03 RIGHT OF ACCESS LIMITED.
   No person has any right of ingress or egress to or from abutting lands onto
or across any controlled access facility, except at such designated points at
which access is permitted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.4)
140.04 ACCESS CONTROLS IMPOSED.
   There are hereby fixed and established controlled access facilities within
the City, described as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.3)
   1.   Iowa No. 148 and Iowa No. 2. On the Primary Road System extension
improvement, Project No. F-81, Primary Road No. Iowa 148 and Iowa 2, within the
City, described as follows:
On Bent Street from the intersection with Pollock Street (Sta.0+00), thence
northerly to north corporate line (13+15.5); on Pollock Street from west
corporate line (615+00) to east corporate line (Sta. 737+00); on Madison Street
from Pollock to south corporate line (Sta. 397+22.0).
regulating access to and from abutting properties along said highway all in
accordance with the plans for such improvement identified as Project No. F-81,
on file in the office of the Clerk.
140.05 UNLAWFUL USE OF CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITY.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.3 and 321.366)
   1.   Cross Dividing Line. Drive a vehicle over, upon, or across any curb,
central dividing section, or other separation or dividing line on such
controlled access facilities.
   2.   Turns. Make a left turn or a semicircular or U-turn except through an
opening provided for that purpose in the dividing curb section, separation, or
line.
   3.   Use of Lanes. Drive any vehicle except in the proper lane provided for
that purpose and in the proper direction and to the right of the central
dividing curb, separation, section, or line.
   4.   Enter Facility. Drive any vehicle into the controlled access facility
from a local service road except through an opening provided for that purpose
in the dividing curb or dividing section or dividing line that separates such
service road from the controlled access facility property.
140.06 PERMITTED ACCESS POINTS.
   Points of access are hereby permitted as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.4)
STATION SIDE OF STREET CURB OPENING WIDTH WIDTH USE OF ENTRANCE
STATION SIDE OF STREET CURB OPENING WIDTH WIDTH USE OF ENTRANCE
On Bent Street from intersection with Pollock Street (Station 0+00) thence
northerly to north corporation line (Station 13+15.5)
2+85    west           20                       Residential
3+40    east           20                       Residential
5+25    east           18                       Residential
5+30    west           30                       Joint Residential
7+22    east           18                       Residential
7+51    west           18                       City Water Tower
8+65    east           18                       Residential
9+70    east           18                       Field Entrance
11+06   west           20                       Field Entrance
12+10   west           24                       Residential
13+14   east           30                       Joint Residential
On Pollock Street from west corporation line (Station 672+66) thence
easterly to intersection with Madison Street thence southerly on Madison
Street from Pollock St. to Pearl Street (Station 738+10.2)
677+20  south                             18    Field Entrance
684+00  north                             18    Field Entrance
684+95  south                             24    Residential
699+60  south          35                       Commercial
699+60  north          20                       Residential
700+90  north          20                       Field Entrance
701+10  south          35                       Commercial
701+85  south          35                       Commercial
702+44  south          18                       Residential
705+62  south          15                       Residential
706+50  north          18                       Residential
706+90  south          21                       Residential
708+90  north          18                       Residential
709+20  north          25                       Commercial
710+00  north          25                       Commercial
710+58  north          18                       Residential
712+23  east           20                       Residential
713+00  west           20                       Field Entrance
714+90  east           24                       Residential
716+16  west           35                       Joint Residential
716+70  east           23                       Residential
717+10  east           20                       Residential
717+59  west           20                       Residential
717+90  east           18                       Residential
718+17  west           18                       Residential
720+78  west           18                       Residential
721+80  east                                    Residential
722+07  west           18                       Residential
724+16  west           30                       Joint Residential
724+16  east           35                       Commercial
727+90  east           21                       Residential
728+46  east           18                       Residential
729+00  east           18                       Residential
729+70  east           35                       Commercial
730+53  west           20                       Residential
730+70  east           33                       Commercial
733+10  east           18                       Residential
733+68  east           18                       Residential
On Madison Street from south corporation line (Station 397+22.0) northerly
to Pearl Street (Station 421+44.10)
399+92  west                              18    Field Entrance
399+92  east                              18    Field Entrance
400+75  west                              15    Commercial
403+43  west                              15    Commercial
405+37  west                              14    Residential
407+79  east                              12    Residential
409+00  west                                    Commercial
410+05  west           31                       Commercial
410+80  west           44                       Commercial
Part or parts of the area from Station 411+88 to Station 413+12, east side,
to serve feed store, service station, storage bins and rear entrance to a
property
413+28  east           16                       Residential
413+31  west           30                       Residential Alley
415+95  west           24                       Commercial
416+00  east           43                       Commercial
416+46  west           30                       Commercial
416+40  east           18                       Commercial
416+72  east           25                       Commercial
416+97  west           36                       Commercial
417+10  east           24                       Commercial
419+05  east           18                       Commercial
419+60  west           18                       Residential
419+94  east           18                       Residential
420+27  west           18                       Residential
420+58  west           18                       Commercial
420+58  east           18                       Commercial
 
140.07 SPEED LIMITS.
   Speed limits on controlled access facilities are as specified in
Chapter 63 of this Code of Ordinances.
140.08 PARKING RESTRICTED.
   The parking of vehicles on or along controlled access facilities is
restricted as follows:
   1.   Minor Street Approaches. Parking shall be prohibited on all minor
street approaches for a distance of 35 feet in advance of the stop sign.
   2.   Minor Street Exits. Parking shall be prohibited on the exit side of a
minor street for a distance of 35 feet.
CHAPTER 145
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
 
145.01 Enforcement Officer          145.05 Conduct of Hearing
145.02 General Definition of Unsafe 145.06 Posting of Signs
145.03 Unsafe Building              145.07 Right to Demolish; Municipal
                                    Infraction
145.04 Notice to Owner              145.08 Costs
 
145.01 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Clerk is responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
145.02 GENERAL DEFINITION OF UNSAFE.
   All buildings or structures that are structurally unsafe or not provided
with adequate egress, or that constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise
dangerous to human life, or that in relation to existing use constitute a
hazard to safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment, are, for the purpose
of this chapter, unsafe buildings. All such unsafe buildings are hereby
declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation,
demolition, or removal in accordance with the procedure specified in this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657A.1 & 364.12[3a])
145.03 UNSAFE BUILDING. “Unsafe building” means any structure or mobile home
meeting any or all of the following criteria:
   1.   Various Inadequacies. Whenever the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, because of: (i) dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; (ii)
faulty construction; (iii) the removal, movement, or instability of any portion
of the ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building; (iv) the
deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or (v) any other cause,
is likely to partially or completely collapse.
   2.   Manifestly Unsafe. Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure,
or any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is
being used.
   3.   Inadequate Maintenance. Whenever a building or structure, used or
intended to be used for dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction, or otherwise, is determined by any health officer
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such condition that it is
likely to cause sickness or disease.
   4.   Fire Hazard. Whenever any building or structure, because of dilapidated
condition, deterioration, damage, or other cause, is determined by the Fire
Marshal or Fire Chief to be a fire hazard.
   5.   Abandoned. Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
145.04 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   The enforcement officer shall examine or cause to be examined every building
or structure or portion thereof reported as dangerous or damaged and, if such
is found to be an unsafe building as defined in this chapter, the enforcement
officer shall give to the owner of such building or structure written notice
stating the defects thereof. This notice may require the owner or person in
charge of the building or premises, within 48 hours or such reasonable time as
the circumstances require, to commence either the required repairs or
improvements or demolition and removal of the building or structure or portions
thereof, and all such work shall be completed within 90 days from date of
notice, unless otherwise stipulated by the enforcement officer. If necessary,
such notice shall also require the building, structure, or portion thereof to
be vacated forthwith and not reoccupied until the required repairs and
improvements are completed, inspected, and approved by the enforcement officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   1.   Notice Served. Such notice shall be served by sending by certified mail
to the owner of record, according to Section 364.12[3h] of the Code of Iowa, if
the owner is found within the City limits. If the owner is not found within the
City limits, such service may be made upon the owner by registered mail or
certified mail. The designated period within which said owner or person in
charge is required to comply with the order of the enforcement officer shall
begin as of the date the owner receives such notice.
   2.   Hearing. Such notice shall also advise the owner that he or she may
request a hearing before the Council on the notice by filing a written request
for hearing within the time provided in the notice.
145.05 CONDUCT OF HEARING.
   If requested, the Council shall conduct a hearing in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Notice. The owner shall be served with written notice specifying the
date, time and place of hearing.
   2.   Owner’s Rights. At the hearing, the owner may appear and show cause why
the alleged nuisance shall not be abated.
   3.   Determination. The Council shall make and record findings of fact and
may issue such order as it deems appropriate.† 7
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Suggested forms of notice and of a resolution and order of the
  Council for the administration of this chapter are provided in the APPENDIX to
7 this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use of this procedure. We
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before initiating
  procedures and follow his or her recommendation carefully.
145.06 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   The enforcement officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
building a notice to read: “DO NOT ENTER. UNSAFE TO OCCUPY. CITY OF BEDFORD,
IOWA.” Such notice shall remain posted until the required demolition, removal
or repairs are completed. Such notice shall not be removed without written
permission of the enforcement officer and no person shall enter the building
except for the purpose of making the required repairs or of demolishing the
building.
145.07 RIGHT TO DEMOLISH; MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
   In case the owner fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with the notice to
repair, rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove the building or structure or
portion thereof, the Council may order the owner of the building prosecuted as
a violator of the provisions of this chapter and may order the enforcement
officer to proceed with the work specified in such notice. A statement of the
cost of such work shall be transmitted to the Council. As an alternative to
this action, the City may utilize the municipal infraction process to abate the
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
145.08 COSTS.
   Costs incurred under Section
145.07 shall be paid out of the City treasury. Such costs shall be charged to
the owner of the premises involved and levied as a special assessment against
the land on which the building or structure is located, and shall be certified
to the County Treasurer for collection in the manner provided for other taxes.
In addition, the City may take any other action deemed appropriate to recover
costs incurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
CHAPTER 146
FIRE ZONE
 
146.01 Fire Zone Established  146.05 Reconstruction Prohibited
146.02 Plans Submitted        146.06 Special Permit
146.03 Buildings Prohibited   146.07 Removal of Buildings
146.04 Construction Standards 146.08 Storage of Materials Restricted
 
146.01 FIRE ZONE ESTABLISHED.
   A Fire Zone is established to include all of the following territory:
   Commencing at the northeast corner of Block Fifteen (15) in the City of
Bedford, Iowa, thence west to the northwest corner of Block Six (6), thence
south to the southwest corner of Block Five (5), thence east to the southeast
corner of Block Fourteen (14), thence north to the place of beginning.
146.02 PLANS SUBMITTED.
   It is unlawful to build, enlarge or alter any structure, building or part
thereof, within the Fire Zone until a plan of the proposed work, together with
a statement of materials to be used has been submitted to the Council, who
shall, if in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, issue a permit for
the proposed work.
146.03 BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.
   The erection of any building or structure of any kind, or additions thereto,
or substantial alterations thereof, involving partial rebuilding, are
prohibited in the Fire Zone, unless constructed in strict compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
146.04 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   The construction standards for all buildings, structures, or parts thereof
within the Fire Zone shall be of Type I, Type II, or, at a minimum, Type III -
1 hour fire resistant - construction, as specified in the International
Building Code.
146.05 RECONSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   Any building within the Fire Zone not constructed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, which may hereafter be damaged by fire, decay, or
otherwise, shall not be rebuilt, altered, or reconstructed except in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
146.06 SPECIAL PERMIT.
   The Council may, by four-fifths vote, issue a special permit to improve any
property within the Fire Zone contrary to the provisions of this chapter, on
condition that such improvement shall not increase the rates for fire insurance
or the fire hazard potential of the area, or to allow any person to erect or
move in any building or structure for temporary purposes for a period of time
not exceeding six months from the date of such permission.
146.07 REMOVAL OF BUILDINGS.
   Any person who erects any building in the Fire Zone, contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, shall be given written notice by the Mayor to
remove or tear down the same, and if such removal or taking down is not
completed within 30 days from the time of the service of such notice, the Mayor
shall cause the same to be removed or taken down. The Mayor shall report an
itemized bill of the expense to the Clerk, and the same shall be charged to the
person owning such building. The Clerk shall present the bill to the owner of
the property and if the bill is not paid within 10 days from the date it is
presented, the amount of the bill shall be certified, by the Clerk, to the
County Treasurer, as a lien against the property and collected the same as
other taxes.
146.08 STORAGE OF MATERIALS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall have or deposit any grain stack, pile of rubbish,
explosives, hazardous chemicals or other flammable substance within the Fire
Zone, nor shall any person have or deposit any cord wood or fire wood, within
the Fire Zone without written permission from the Mayor, specifying the maximum
amount of such cord wood or fire wood, that may be kept, stored, or deposited
on any lot or part of a lot within the Fire Zone, unless the same be within one
of the buildings allowed by this chapter. No person shall build or allow any
fires, whether trash fires or otherwise, within the Fire Zone as described in
this chapter.
CHAPTER 147
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
 
147.01 Adoption of Code 147.02 Revised Sections
 
147.01 ADOPTION OF CODE.
   That certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of
the City Clerk, being marked and designated as the International Property
Maintenance Code, 2012 edition, as published by the International Code Council,
is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the City, for regulating
and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property essential to
ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and
the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use,
and the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; providing
for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all
of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
Property Maintenance Code on file in the office of the City Clerk are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in the
legislation, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in the Section
147.02 of this chapter.
147.02 REVISED SECTIONS.
   The following sections are hereby revised:
   1.   Section 101.1. Insert: City of Bedford, Iowa.
   2.   Section 102.3. Section 102.3 shall be deleted.
   3.   Section 103.5. Section 103.5 shall be deleted and replaced as follows:
103.5 Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the department in
carrying out its responsibilities under this code shall be adopted by
resolution of the City Council.
   4.   Section 111.2. Section 111.2 shall be deleted and replaced as follows:
111.2 Membership of board. The board of appeals shall consist of the Bedford
City Council, subject to the same voting and quorum requirements required by
Section 380.4 of the Code of Iowa. The code official shall be an ex-officio
member but shall have no vote on any matter before the board.
   5.   Section 111.2.1. Section 111.2.1 shall be deleted.
   6.   Section 111.2.2. Section 111.2.2 shall be deleted and replaced as
follows:
Section 111.2.2 Chairman. The Mayor shall act as the chairman of the board of
appeals.
   7.   Section 111.2.4. Section 111.2.4 shall be deleted.
   8.   Section 111.2.5. Section 111.2.5 shall be deleted.
   9.   Section 112.4. Section 112.4 shall be deleted and replaced as follows:
112.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be guilty of a
municipal infraction under Chapter 4 of the Code of Ordinances for the City of
Bedford, Iowa.
   10.   Section 302.4. Section 302.4 shall be deleted and replaced as follows:
302.4 Weeds, Brush. All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free
from weeds, grasses, and non-agricultural plants which are seven inches or more
in height or any other rank growth of vegetation that may be injurious to
health by releasing particulate matter in the atmosphere or by other means, or
which are considered noxious. Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge
of a property to cut and destroy weeds after service of a notice of violation,
they shall be subject to prosecution in accordance with Section 106.3 and as
proscribed by the authority having jurisdiction. Upon failure to comply with
the notice of violation, any duly authorized employee of the jurisdiction or
contractor hired by the jurisdiction shall be authorized to enter upon the
property in violation and cut and destroy the weeds growing thereon, and the
costs of such removal shall be paid by the owner or agent responsible for the
property.
   11.   Section 304.14. Section 304.14 shall be deleted.
   12.   Section 602.3. Section 602.3 shall be deleted.
   13.   Section 602.4. Section 602.4 shall be deleted.
   14.   Section 602.5. Section 602.5 shall be deleted.
CHAPTER 150
BUILDING NUMBERING
 
150.01 Definitions        150.03 Building Numbering Plan
150.02 Owner Requirements
 
150.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Owner” means the owner of the principal building.
   2.   “Principal building” means the main building on any lot or subdivision
thereof.
150.02 OWNER REQUIREMENTS.
   Every owner shall comply with the following numbering requirements:
   1.   Obtain Building Number. The owner shall obtain the assigned number to
the principal building from the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
   2.   Display Building Number. The owner shall place or cause to be installed
and maintained on the principal building the assigned number in a conspicuous
place to the street in figures not less than two and one-half inches in height
and of a contrasting color with their background.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
   3.   Failure to Comply. If an owner refuses to number a building as herein
provided, or fails to do so for a period of 30 days after being notified in
writing by the City to do so, the City may proceed to place the assigned number
on the principal building and assess the costs against the property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
150.03 BUILDING NUMBERING PLAN.
   Building numbers shall be assigned in accordance with the building numbering
plan on file in the office of the Clerk.
CHAPTER 151
TREES
 
151.01 Definition            151.04 Trimming Trees to Be Supervised
151.02 Planting Restrictions 151.05 Disease Control
151.03 Duty to Trim Trees    151.06 Inspection and Removal
 
151.01 DEFINITION.
   For use in this chapter, “parking” means that part of the street, avenue, or
highway in the City not covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and
the curb line or, on unpaved streets, that part of the street, avenue, or
highway lying between the lot line and that portion of the street usually
traveled by vehicular traffic.
151.02 PLANTING RESTRICTIONS.
   No tree shall be planted in any parking or street.
151.03 DUTY TO TRIM TREES.
   The owner or agent of the abutting property shall keep the trees on, or
overhanging the street, trimmed so that all branches will be at least 12 feet
above the surface of the street and eight feet above the sidewalks, except
young trees less than three inches in diameter. If the abutting property owner
fails to trim the trees, the City may serve notice on the abutting property
owner requiring that such action be taken within five days. If such action is
not taken within that time, the City may perform the required action and assess
the costs against the abutting property for collection in the same manner as a
property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c, d & e])
151.04 TRIMMING TREES TO BE SUPERVISED.
   Except as allowed in Section
151.03, it is unlawful for any person to trim or cut any tree in a street or
public place unless the work is done under the supervision of the City.
151.05 DISEASE CONTROL.
   Any dead, diseased, or damaged tree or shrub that may harbor serious insect
or disease pests or disease injurious to other trees is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
151.06 INSPECTION AND REMOVAL.
   The Council shall inspect or cause to be inspected any trees or shrubs in
the City reported or suspected to be dead, diseased or damaged, and such trees
and shrubs shall be subject to the following:
   1.   City Property. If it is determined that any such condition exists on
any public property, including the strip between the curb and the lot line of
private property, the Council may cause such condition to be corrected by
treatment or removal. The Council may also order the removal of any trees on
the streets of the City which interfere with the making of improvements or with
travel thereon.
   2.   Private Property. If it is determined with reasonable certainty that
any such condition exists on private property and that danger to other trees or
to adjoining property or passing motorists or pedestrians is imminent, the
Council shall notify by certified mail the owner, occupant or person in charge
of such property to correct such condition by treatment or removal within 14
days of said notification. If such owner, occupant, or person in charge of said
property fails to comply within 14 days of receipt of notice, the Council may
cause the condition to be corrected and the cost assessed against the property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3b & h])
CHAPTER 155
BUILDING PERMITS
 
155.01 Purpose                  155.06 Authority of Council
155.02 Building Permit Required 155.07 Action to Abate
155.03 Fees                     155.08 Permit Issued
155.04 Plans Required           155.09 Permit Void
155.05 Location of Building
 
155.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide the Council notice of the type of
building, the kind of construction, the location of any building to be erected
or added within the City, the location of any building on any specific lot
within the City and to provide reasonable rules for the erection,
reconstruction, altering and repairing of buildings of all kinds.
155.02 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No building or other structure shall be erected, reconstructed, altered, or
added to within the City without first securing a permit therefor.
155.03 FEES.
   Building permit fees are established by resolution of the Council.
155.04 PLANS REQUIRED.
   Plans and specifications of any proposed building to be done as listed
herein shall be filed with the application for the permit.
155.05 LOCATION OF BUILDING.
   A complete showing and description of the real estate involved and the
location of the building on the real estate shall be filed with the application
for the permit.
155.06 AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL.
   The Council shall have full authority to accept or reject any plans and
specifications submitted.
155.07 ACTION TO ABATE.
   Any building or structure erected, constructed, altered, or repaired in
violation of this chapter shall be deemed unlawful and a nuisance and the same
may be abated by the City in the manner provided for the abatement of
nuisances.
155.08 PERMIT ISSUED.
   Permits shall be issued by the Clerk in triplicate—one copy for the
applicant, one copy for the County Assessor and one copy to be retained by the
City.
155.09 PERMIT VOID.
   In the event that construction covered by a permit is not initiated and
under way within one year from the date of issuance of a permit, such permit
shall be deemed void and of no effect.
CHAPTER 160
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
160.01 Purpose                         160.12 Application for Permit
160.02 Definitions                     160.13 Action on Application
160.03 Lands to Which Chapter Applies  160.14 Construction and Use to Be as
                                       Provided in Application and Plans
160.04 Rules for Interpretation of
Flood Hazard Boundaries
160.05 Compliance                      160.15 Variances
160.06 Abrogation and Greater          160.16 Factors Upon Which the Decision
Restrictions                           to Grant Variances Shall Be Based
160.07 Interpretation
160.08 Warning and Disclaimer of       160.17 Conditions Attached to Variances
Liability
160.09 Floodplain Management Standards 160.18 Nonconforming Uses
160.10 Administration                  160.19 Amendments
160.11 Floodplain Development Permit   160.20 Penalties for Violation
Required
                                       160.21 Severability
 
160.01 PURPOSE.
   The Legislature of the State of Iowa has, in Chapter 414, Code of Iowa, as
amended, delegated the power of cities to enact zoning regulations to secure
regulations to secure safety from flood and promote the general welfare. It is
the purpose of this chapter to protect and preserve the rights, privileges, and
property of the City and its residents and to preserve and improve the peace,
safety, health, welfare and comfort and convenience of its residents by
minimizing flood losses with provisions designed to:
   1.   Restrict Use. Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health,
safety, or property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in
flood heights or velocities.
   2.   Vulnerable Uses Protected. Require that uses vulnerable to floods,
including public facilities which serve such uses, be protected against flood
damage at the time of initial construction or substantial improvement.
   3.   Unsuitable Land Purchases. Protect individuals from buying lands which
may not be suited for intended purposes because of flood hazard.
   4.   Flood Insurance. Assure that eligibility is maintained for property
owners in the community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood
Insurance Program.
160.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   1.   “Base flood” means the flood having a one percent chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. (See 100-year flood.)
   2.   “Basement” means any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or
lowest level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. (Also see “lowest
floor.”)
   3.   “Development” means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
   4.   “Existing construction” means any structure for which the “start of
construction” commenced before the effective date of the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map. (May also be referred to as “existing structure.”)
   5.   “Existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was completed before the
effective date of these floodplain management regulations.
   6.   “Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means
the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   7.   “Factory-built home” means any structure designed for residential use
which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled
in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation on a
building site. For the purpose of this chapter, “factory-built home” includes
mobile homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes and also includes
recreational vehicles which are placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days and not fully licensed for and ready for highway use.
   8.   “Factory-built home park” means a parcel or contiguous parcels of land
divided into two or more factory-built home lots for sale or lease.
   9.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or
rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
   10.   “Flood elevation” means the elevation floodwaters would reach at a
particular site during the occurrence of a specific flood. For instance, the
100-year flood elevation is the elevation of floodwaters related to the
occurrence of the 100-year flood.
   11.   “Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)” means the official map prepared as
part of (but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study which
delineates both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community.
   12.   “Floodplain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water as a result of a flood.
   13.   “Floodplain management” means an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of
floodplains, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, flood proofing, and floodplain management regulations.
   14.   “Flood proofing” means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and
sanitary facilities which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such
structures.
   15.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those portions
of the floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to
carry and discharge floodwaters or flood flows so that confinement of flood
flows to the floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot.
   16.   “Floodway fringe” means those portions of the floodplain, other than
the floodway, which can be filled, leveed, or otherwise obstructed without
causing substantially higher flood levels or flow velocities.
   17.   “Historic structure” means any structure that is:
      A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places,
maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing in
the National Register;
      B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by
either (i) an approved State program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior or (ii) directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   18.   “Lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed area in a
building including a basement except when all the following criteria are met:
      A.   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic
pressure during floods with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions of
Section
160.09(4)(A); and
      B.   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, dry-walled, etc.) and
used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access, parking or
storage; and
      C.   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one
foot above the 100-year flood level; and
      D.   The enclosed area is not a “basement” as defined in this section.
In cases where the lowest enclosed area satisfies criteria A, B, C, and D
above, the lowest floor is the floor of the next highest enclosed area that
does not satisfy the criteria above.
   19.   “Minor projects” means small development activities (except for
filling, grading and excavating) valued at less than $500.00.
   20.   “New construction” (new buildings, factory-built home parks) means
those structures or development for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   21.   “New factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after
the effective date of these floodplain management regulations.
   22.   “100-year flood” means a flood, the magnitude of which has a one
percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year or which, on the
average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once every 100 years.
   23.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle which is:
      A.   Built on a single chassis;
      B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
      D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   24.   “Routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities” means
repairs necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do
not trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a general
improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs
include:
      A.   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing
roofing tiles and replacing siding.
      B.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting,
cabinets, counter tops and similar finish work.
      C.   Basement sealing.
      D.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes.
      E.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating or air
conditioning systems and repairing wells or septic systems.
   25.    “Special flood hazard area” means the land within a community subject
to the “100-year flood.” This land is identified as Zone A on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map.
   26.   “Start of construction” includes substantial improvement, and means
the date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   27.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground, including (but not limited to) buildings, factories,
sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, and other similar uses.
   28.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damage
condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred.
   29.   “Substantial improvement” means any improvement to a structure which
satisfies either of the following criteria:
      A.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure
either (i) before the “start of construction” of the improvement, or (ii) if
the structure has been “substantially damaged” and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. The term does not, however, include any project for
improvement of a structure to comply with existing State or local health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure
safe conditions for the existing use. The term also does not include any
alteration of an “historic structure,” provided the alteration will not
preclude the structure’s designation as an “historic structure.”
      B.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building
by 25 percent or more. All additions constructed after the effective date of
the Flood Insurance Rate Map shall be added to any proposed addition in
determining whether the total increase in original floor space would exceed 25
percent.
   30.   “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of
the floodplain management regulations.
   31.   “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to
be fully compliant with this chapter.
160.03 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all areas having special flood
hazards within the jurisdiction of the City. For the purpose of this chapter,
the special flood hazard areas are those areas located within the boundaries of
the Floodplain (Overlay) District as shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map for
Taylor County, Incorporated Areas, City of Bedford, Panels 19173C0311C and
0312C, dated April 5, 2017.
160.04 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the Special Flood Hazard areas shall be determined by
scaling distances on the official Flood Insurance Rate Map. When an
interpretation is needed as to the exact location of a boundary, the Zoning
Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The Zoning Board of
Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged that there is an
error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
160.05 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be used and no structure shall be
located, extended, converted or structurally altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations which apply to
uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
160.06 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provision of this chapter shall
prevail. Any ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to
the extent of the inconsistency only.
160.07 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the Council and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any
other powers granted by State statutes.
160.08 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The standards required by this chapter are considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes. This chapter does not imply that areas outside the
designated special flood hazard areas will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the City or any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
160.09 FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT STANDARDS.
   All uses must be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and shall
meet the following applicable performance standards. Where 100-year flood
elevations and floodway data have not been provided in the Flood Insurance Rate
Map, the Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to compute such
data.
   1.   All development within the Floodplain (Overlay) District shall:
      A.   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
      B.   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      C.   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant
to flood damage.
      D.   Obtain all other necessary permits from Federal, State and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Iowa Department
of Natural Resources.
   2.   Residential Buildings. All new or substantially improved residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated a minimum
of one foot above the 100-year flood level. Construction shall be upon
compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than one foot above the
100-year flood level and extend at such elevation at least 18 feet beyond the
limits of any structure erected thereon. Alternate methods of elevating (such
as piers) may be allowed, subject to favorable consideration by the City
Council, where existing topography, street grades, or other factors preclude
elevating by fill. In such cases, the methods used must be adequate to support
the structure as well as withstand the various forces and hazards associated
with flooding. All new residential structures shall be provided with a means of
access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during the 100-year flood.
   3.   Nonresidential Buildings. All new or substantially improved
nonresidential buildings shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot above the 100-year flood level, or together with
attendant utility and sanitary systems, be flood-proofed to such a level. When
floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State
shall certify that the floodproofing methods used are adequate to withstand the
flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors
associated with the 100-year flood; and that the structure, below the 100-year
flood level, is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water. A record of the certification indicating the specific elevation (in
relation to North American Vertical Datum) to which any structures are flood-
proofed shall be maintained by the Administrator.
   4.   All New and Substantially Improved Structures.
      A.   Fully enclosed areas below the “lowest floor” (not including
basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
         (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
All such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access,
and storage of low flood damage potential storage.
      B.   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
      C.   New and substantially improved structures must be constructed with
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   5.   Factory-Built Homes.
      A.   All factory-built homes including those placed in existing factory-
built home parks or subdivisions shall be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest floor of the structure is a minimum of one foot above the
100-year flood level.
      B.   All factory-built homes including those placed in existing factory-
built home parks or subdivisions shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse or lateral movement. The following specific requirements (or their
equivalent) shall be met:
         (1)   Over-the-top ties shall be provided at each of the four corners
of the factory-built home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate
locations and factory-built homes less than 50 feet long requiring one
additional tie per side;
         (2)   Frame ties shall be provided at each corner of the home with
five additional ties per side at intermediate points and factory-built homes
less than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
         (3)   All components of the anchoring system shall be capable of
carrying a force of 4,800 pounds.
         (4)   Any additions to factory-built homes shall be similarly
anchored.
   6.   Utility and Sanitary Systems.
      A.   On-site waste disposal and water supply systems shall be located or
designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system
during flooding.
      B.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system as well as
the discharge of effluent into flood waters. Wastewater treatment facilities
(other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood protection
equal to or greater than one foot above the 100-year flood elevation.
      C.   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system. Water
supply treatment facilities other than on-site systems shall be provided with a
level of protection equal to or greater than one foot above the 100-year flood
elevation.
      D.   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
   7.   Flammable or Explosive Materials. Storage of equipment and materials
that are flammable, explosive, or injurious to human, animal, or plant life is
prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one foot above the 100-year flood
level. Other material and equipment must either be similarly elevated or: (i)
not subject to major flood damage and anchored to prevent movement due to
floodwaters; or (ii) readily removable from the area within the time available
after flood warning.
   8.   Levees and Floodwalls. Flood control structural works such as levees,
floodwalls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from a 100-year flood
with a minimum of three feet of design freeboard and shall provide for adequate
interior drainage. In addition, structural flood control works shall be
approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
   9.   Watercourse Alternations. Watercourse alterations or relocations must
be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion. In addition, such alterations or relocations must be
approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
   10.   Subdivisions. Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and
subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
chapter. Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during
the 100-year flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than 5 acres or 50 lots
(whichever is less) shall include 100-year flood elevation data for those areas
located within the Special Flood Hazard Area.
   11.   Accessory Structures.
      A.   Detached garages, sheds, and similar structures accessory to a
residential use are exempt from the 100-year flood elevation requirements where
the following criteria are satisfied:
         (1)   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential. Its size shall not exceed 600 square feet in size. Those portions of
the structure located less than one foot above the BFE must be constructed of
flood-resistant materials.
         (2)   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage
potential purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage. The structure
shall not be used for human habitation.
         (3)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
         (4)   The structure shall be firmly anchored to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement.
         (5)   The structure’s service facilities such as electrical and
heating equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one foot above
the base flood elevation.
         (6)   The structure’s walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of Paragraph D(1) of this subsection.
      B.   Exemption from the 100-year flood elevation requirements for such a
structure may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of
the structure and its contents.
   12.   Recreational Vehicles.
      A.   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of Section
160.09(5) of this chapter regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built
homes when the following criteria are satisfied.
         (1)   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less
than 180 consecutive days, and,
         (2)   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
      B.   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than 180
consecutive days and are not ready for highway use must satisfy requirements of
Section
160.09(5) of this chapter regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built
homes.
   13.   Pipelines. Pipeline river and stream crossings shall be buried in the
streambed and banks or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent rupture due
to channel degradation and meandering.
160.10 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Zoning Administrator shall implement and administer the provisions of
this chapter and will herein be referred to as the Administrator. Duties and
responsibilities of the Administrator shall include, but not necessarily be
limited to, the following:
   1.   Review all floodplain development permit applications to assure that
the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied.
   2.   Review all floodplain development permit applications to assure that
all necessary permits have been obtained from Federal, State and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Department of
Natural Resources for floodplain construction.
   3.   Record and maintain a record of the elevation (in relation to North
American Vertical Datum) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures in the special flood hazard area.
   4.   Record and maintain a record of the elevation (in relation to North
American Vertical Datum) to which all new or substantially improved structures
have been flood-proofed.
   5.   Notify adjacent communities and/or counties and the Department of
Natural Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a
watercourse and submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   6.   Keep a record of all permits, appeals and such other transactions and
correspondence pertaining to the administration of this chapter.
160.11 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A Floodplain Development Permit issued by the Administrator shall be secured
prior to any floodplain development (any manmade change to improved and
unimproved real estate, including but not limited to buildings or other
structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling
operations) including the placement of factory-built homes.
160.12 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Application for a Floodplain Development Permit shall be made on forms
supplied by the Administrator and shall include the following information:
   1.   Work To Be Done. Description of the work to be covered by the permit
for which application is to be made.
   2.   Location. Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be
done (i.e., lot, block, tract, street address or similar description) that will
readily identify and locate the work to be done.
   3.   Use or Occupancy. Indication of the use or occupancy for which the
proposed work is intended.
   4.   Flood Elevation. Elevation of the 100-year flood.
   5.   Floor Elevation. Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical
Datum) of the lowest floor (including basement) of buildings or of the level to
which a building is to be flood-proofed.
   6.   Cost of Improvement. For buildings being improved or rebuilt, the
estimated cost of improvements and market value of the building prior to the
improvements.
   7.   Other. Such other information as the Administrator deems reasonably
necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this chapter.
160.13 ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   The Administrator shall, within a reasonable time, make a determination as
to whether the proposed floodplain development meets the applicable standards
of this chapter and shall approve or disapprove the application. For
disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed, in writing, of the specific
reasons therefor. The Administrator shall not issue permits for variances
except as directed by the Council.
160.14 CONSTRUCTION AND USE TO BE AS PROVIDED IN APPLICATION AND PLANS.
   Floodplain Development Permits, issued on the basis of approved plans and
applications, authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth
in such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement or
construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor,
as appropriate, registered in the State, that the finished fill, building floor
elevations, floodproofing, or other flood protection measures were accomplished
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the use or
occupancy of any structure.
160.15 VARIANCES.
   The Zoning Board of Adjustment may authorize upon request in specific cases
such variances from the terms of this chapter that will not be contrary to the
public interest, where owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship. Variances
granted must meet the following applicable standards:
   1.   Cause. Variances shall only be granted upon: (i) a showing of good and
sufficient cause; (ii) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and (iii) a determination that
the granting of the variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict with
existing local codes or ordinances.
   2.   Prohibited. Variances shall not be issued within any designated
floodway if any increase in flood levels during the 100-year flood would
result. Consideration of the effects of any development on flood levels shall
be based upon the assumption that an equal degree of development would be
allowed for similarly situated lands.
   3.   Required To Afford Relief. Variances shall only be granted upon a
determination that the variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood
hazard, to afford relief.
   4.   Notice to Applicant. In cases where the variance involves a lower level
of flood protection for buildings than what is ordinarily required by this
chapter, the applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the
Administrator that: (i) the issuance of a variance will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25.00 for $100.00
of insurance coverage; and (ii) such construction increases risks to life and
property.
   5.   All variances granted shall have the concurrence or approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
160.16 FACTORS UPON WHICH THE DECISION TO GRANT VARIANCES SHALL BE BASED.
   In passing upon applications for variances, the Zoning Board of Adjustment
shall consider all relevant factors specified in other sections of this chapter
and:
   1.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
   2.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other lands or downstream
to the injury of others.
   3.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions.
   4.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
   5.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the
community.
   6.   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location.
   7.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding for
the proposed use.
   8.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
   9.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for the area.
   10.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
   11.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood water expected at the site.
   12.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems), facilities, streets and bridges.
   13.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this chapter.
160.17 CONDITIONS ATTACHED TO VARIANCES.
   Upon consideration of the factors listed in Section
160.16, the Zoning Board of Adjustment may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose of this
chapter. Such conditions may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
   1.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
   2.   Limitation of periods of use and operation.
   3.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed restrictions.
   4.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes, levees,
and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the Department of
Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative to achieving
the purposes of this chapter.
   5.   Floodproofing measures.
160.18 NONCONFORMING USES.
   1.   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter, may be continued subject to the following
conditions:
      A.   If such use is discontinued for six (6) consecutive months, any
future use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
      B.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   2.   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50
percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred, unless
it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
State or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or regulations or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
160.19 AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may from time to
time be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed. No amendment, supplement,
change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval from the
Department of Natural Resources.
160.20 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any
of the requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances) shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than
$500.00 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
prevent the City from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy violation.
160.21 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
CHAPTER 165
ZONING CODE AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
EDITOR’S NOTE
Ordinance No. 398 entitled “ZONING CODE, SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS AND OFFICIAL
ZONING MAP ORDINANCE, CITY OF BEDFORD, IOWA, 2006,” adopted June 13, 2006, and
amendments thereto, contained in a separate volume, are a part of this Code of
Ordinances and are in full force and effect. The following ordinances have been
adopted amending Ordinance No. 398.
ORDINANCE ADOPTED SUBJECT
EDITOR’S NOTE
Ordinance No. 398 entitled “ZONING CODE, SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS AND OFFICIAL
ZONING MAP ORDINANCE, CITY OF BEDFORD, IOWA, 2006,” adopted June 13, 2006, and
amendments thereto, contained in a separate volume, are a part of this Code of
Ordinances and are in full force and effect. The following ordinances have been
adopted amending Ordinance No. 398.
ORDINANCE ADOPTED           SUBJECT
414       October 13, 2010  Farm Animals
434       November 12, 2014 Farm Animals
439       December 14, 2016 C-2 Permitted Uses
447       September 9, 2020 I-1 Allowable Uses
451       May 12, 2021      Heavy Industrial (I-2) Provisions
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
 
 
