CITY CODE
OF
BETTENDORF, IOWA
Code current through:
Ord.  06-25, passed April 1, 2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the city of Bettendorf, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 06-25, passed April 1, 2025. Ordinances of the city
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the city
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO.    07 - 25
 
ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 11, CHAPTER 14 – SIGN ORDINANCE
SECTION 11-4-3(F) GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS AND
SECTION 11-4-8(B) BILLBOARD SIGNS (OFF-PREMISES ADVERTISING)
OF THE BETTENDORF CITY CODE
 
Section 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BETTENDORF, IOWA,
that Title 11, Chapter 14 of the Bettendorf City Code – Sign Ordinance, Section
11-14-3(F) General Requirements and Restrictions – Public Service and Safety
Signs is hereby deleted and the following substituted therefor:
 
F. Signs on Public Property and Rights-of-Way: No signs other than official
signs shall be permitted on public property or rights-of-way. Only signs that
have been placed by or authorized by a federal, state, or local agency may be
installed on public property or rights-of-way. Any sign installed on public
property without prior authorization, including rights-of-way, will be removed
by the City without notice and disposed of.
 
1.   Official Sign Categories:
a.   Public Safety Signs: Traffic signs, directional signage, and construction
signage.
b.      Legal/Public Notice Signs: Any public notice or warning required by
applicable Federal, State or local law, regulation, or ordinance.
c.   Public Utilities: Warning signs, informational signs, notices, or markers
which are customarily erected and maintained by publicly owned or privately-
owned public utilities.
d.   Bettendorf Light Pole Banner Program Signs: A banner affixed to a city-
owned light pole. All banners shall meet the Bettendorf Light Pole Banner
Program policy and guidelines.
 
Section 2. BE IT ENACTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BETTENDORF, IOWA,
that Title 11, Chapter 14 of the Bettendorf City Code – Sign Ordinance, Section
11-14-8(B) Billboard Signs (Off-Premises Advertising) - Location is hereby
amended by adding the following thereto:
3. I-80 Urban Renewal Plan Area Exclusion: Regardless of the underlying zoning
district, no billboard signs (static) and no billboard signs (digital display)
shall be permitted in the I-80 Urban Renewal Plan Area. Said area is described
in Resolution 85-17.
 
Section 3. Severability of Provisions. If any subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase, or portion of this ordinance be held invalid or unconstitutional by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portion hereof.
 
Section 4. Full Force and Effect. This ordinance shall be in full force and
effect from the date of passage and publications as required by law.
 
Section 5. Repealer. This ordinance shall be construed to repeal any prior
ordinance inconsistent herewith.
 
PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED this 20th day of May, 2025.
 
Robert S. Gallagher, Mayor
 
ATTEST: Decker P. Ploehn, City Clerk
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 08-25
 
ORDINANCE AMENDING THE BETTENDORF CITY CODE
SECTION 7-4-2 “LOCATION OF POLES; COUNCIL AUTHORITY”
 
 
Section One. Be It Enacted by the City Council of the city of Bettendorf, Iowa,
that Bettendorf City Code Section 7-4-2 entitled, “Location of Poles; Council
Authority” is hereby amended by adding thereto the following:
 
D. Underground: All cables, wires and conduits in connection with any
communications systems shall be placed underground, except as provided in
subsection E of this section.
 
E. Overhead Permitted: Cables, wires and conduits in connection with a
communications system may be placed overhead in the following circumstances:
1. Areas of the city with an industrial zoning classification and where
existing poles of a franchised utility are to be used.
2. Where aboveground connection to buildings or other locations above ground is
reasonably necessary. Such aboveground connection shall be by means of poles
located, as far as reasonably practicable, outside of street right of way.
 
Section Two. Full Force and Effect. This ordinance shall be in full force and
effect the date of passage and publication as required by law.
 
Section Three. Severability of Provisions. If any section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this ordinance be held invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be
deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision, and such holding shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portion thereof.
 
Section Four. Repealer. This ordinance shall be construed to repeal any prior
ordinance inconsistent herewith.
 
Passed, Approved and Adopted this 3rd day of June, 2025.
 
Robert S. Gallagher, Mayor
 
Attest: Decker P. Ploehn, City Clerk
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 09 - 25
ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 5 - POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY,
CHAPTER 7 - FIREWORKS, SECTION 5-7-2(A) OF THE BETTENDORF CITY CODE
RELATING TO THE USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS
 
Section 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BETTENDORF, IOWA,
that Title 5 – Police and Public Safety, Chapter 7 – Fireworks, Section 5-7-2
(A) - Fireworks Allowed as Specified of the Bettendorf City Code is hereby
amended by deleting the strike through text and adding the underline text:
 
5-7-2: FIREWORKS ALLOWED AS SPECIFIED:
 
A.   Use Of Consumer Fireworks: Consumer fireworks may be used on July 3 and
July 4 from two o'clock (2:00) P.M. nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. until eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. and on the night of December 31 from ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. until twelve thirty o'clock (12:30) A.M. on the
immediately following day. A person shall not use, explode or discharge
consumer fireworks on real property other than that person's real property or
on the real property of a person who has consented to the use of
consumer fireworks on that property. A person that uses, explodes or discharges
consumer fireworks shall have responsibility to clean up all debris created by
the fireworks. A person shall not release or cause to be released an untethered
sky lantern.
 
Section 2. Severability of Provisions. If any subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase, or portion of this ordinance be held invalid or unconstitutional by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portion hereof.
 
Section 3. Full Force and Effect. This ordinance shall be in full force and
effect from the date of passage and publications as required by law.
 
Section 4. Repealer. This ordinance shall be construed to repeal any prior
ordinance inconsistent herewith.
 
PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED this 17th day of June, 2025.
 
Robert S. Gallagher, Mayor
 
ATTEST: Decker P. Ploehn, City Clerk
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 10 - 25
 
ORDINANCE AMENDING THE BETTENDORF, IOWA ZONING MAP FOR
PROPERTY GENERALLY LOCATED NORTH OF FOREST GROVE DRIVE,
WEST OF WELLS FERRY ROAD, AND SOUTH OF INTERSTATE 80
A-1 AGRICULTURAL/URBAN RESERVE DISTRICT TO
R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
 
BE IT ENACTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BETTENDORF, IOWA,
 
Section 1. That the Bettendorf, Iowa, Zoning Map referred to in Section 4, and
being a part of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Bettendorf, Iowa, 1959,
insofar as the said map pertains to property generally located north of Forest
Grove Drive, west of Wells Ferry Road, and south of Interstate 80 and legally
described as follows:
 
Being part of corrected auditor's parcel a as recorded in 2024-5174, all of
Auditor's Parcel B as recorded in 2024-5420, and all of the lease parcel as
recorded in 2022-24374 of the Scott County Recorder's Office, City of
Bettendorf, Scott County, Iowa, except the northern portion of said corrected
Auditor's Parcel A more particularly described as:
 
Beginning at the northwest corner of said corrected Auditor's Parcel A;
 
Thence N87°43'35”E, 662.59 feet;
 
Thence S81°51'18”E, 189.70 feet;
 
Thence N86°32'59”E, 940.47;
 
Thence S20°07'51”E, 425.71 feet;
 
Thence S78°05'05”W, 853.49 feet;
 
Thence N70°28'47”W, 1161.59 feet;
 
Thence N02°15'48”W, 131.87 feet to the point of beginning.
 
All in the city of Bettendorf, Scott County, Iowa. Described area contains
94.34 acres and is subject to easements and other restrictions of record.
 
and which is now zoned A-1 Agricultural/Urban Reserve District, is hereby
repealed and said described land shall hereinafter be zoned R-2 Single-Family
Residence District, and the following Zoning Map, which is attached hereto and
incorporated herewith and made a part thereof, as the same pertains to said
area, is enacted as a substitute and in lieu of said District Map.
 
Section 2. Severability of Provisions. If any subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase, or portion of this ordinance be held invalid or unconstitutional by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct, and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portion hereof.
 
Section 3. Full Force and Effect. This ordinance shall be in full force and
effect from the date of passage and publication as required by law.
 
Section 4. Repealer. This ordinance shall be construed to repeal any prior
ordinance inconsistent herewith.
 
PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED this 17th day of June, 2025.
 
Robert S. Gallagher, Mayor
 
ATTEST: Decker P. Ploehn, City Clerk
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 11 - 25
 
ORDINANCE AMENDING THE BETTENDORF, IOWA ZONING MAP FOR
PROPERTY GENERALLY LOCATED NORTH OF FOREST GROVE DRIVE,
WEST OF WELLS FERRY ROAD, AND SOUTH OF INTERSTATE 80
A-1 AGRICULTURAL/URBAN RESERVE DISTRICT TO
C-3 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
 
BE IT ENACTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BETTENDORF, IOWA,
 
Section 1. That the Bettendorf, Iowa, Zoning Map referred to in Section 4, and
being a part of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Bettendorf, Iowa, 1959,
insofar as the said map pertains to property generally located north of Forest
Grove Drive, west of Wells Ferry Road, and south of Interstate 80 and legally
described as follows:
 
Being the northern portion of corrected Auditor’s Parcel A as recorded in 2024-
5174 of the Scott County Recorder’s Office more particularly described as:
 
Beginning at the northwest corner of said corrected Auditor's Parcel A;
 
Thence N87°43'35”E, 662.59 feet;
 
Thence S81°51'18”E, 189.70 feet;
 
Thence N86°32'59”E, 940.47;
 
Thence S20°07'51”E, 425.71 feet;
 
Thence S78°05'05”W, 853.49 feet;
 
Thence N70°28'47”W, 1161.59 feet;
 
Thence N02°15'48”W, 131.87 feet to the point of beginning.
 
All in the city of Bettendorf, Scott County, Iowa. The described area contains
16.84 acres and is subject to easements and other restrictions of record.
 
and which is now zoned A-1 Agricultural/Urban Reserve District, is hereby
repealed and said described land shall hereinafter be zoned C-3 General
Business District, and the following Zoning Map, which is attached hereto and
incorporated herewith and made a part thereof, as the same pertains to said
area, is enacted as a substitute and in lieu of said District Map.
 
Section 2. Severability of Provisions. If any subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase, or portion of this ordinance be held invalid or unconstitutional by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct, and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portion hereof.
 
Section 3. Full Force and Effect. This ordinance shall be in full force and
effect from the date of passage and publication as required by law.
 
Section 4. Repealer. This ordinance shall be construed to repeal any prior
ordinance inconsistent herewith.
 
PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED this 17th day of June, 2025.
 
Robert S. Gallagher, Mayor
 
ATTEST: Decker P. Ploehn, City Clerk
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 12- 25
 
ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 11 CHAPTER 4-5B OF THE BETTENDORF CITY CODE ENTITLED
COMMERCIAL AND PARKING PERMITTED USE TABLE
 
Section 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BETTENDORF, IOWA,
that Title 11 Chapter 4-5B of the Bettendorf City Code entitled “Commercial and
Parking Permitted Use Table” is hereby amended by adding thereto the following
to the uses permitted by special use subject to approval of the Board of
Adjustment in the C-3 General Business District:
 
Convenience Storage
 
Section 2. Severability of Provisions. If any subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase, or portion of this ordinance be held invalid or unconstitutional by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct, and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portion hereof.
 
Section Three. Repealer. This ordinance shall be construed to repeal any prior
ordinance inconsistent herewith.
 
Section Four. Full Force and Effect. This ordinance shall be in full force and
effect from the date of passage and publication as required by law.
 
PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED THIS 17th day of June, 2025.
 
Robert S. Gallagher, Mayor
 
ATTEST: Decker P. Ploehn, City Clerk
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 13 - 25
ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 4 - HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT,
CHAPTER 3 - OPEN BURNING
OF THE BETTENDORF CITY CODE
 
Section 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BETTENDORF, IOWA,
that Title 4 – Health, Sanitation and Environment, Chapter 3 – Open Burning of
the Bettendorf City Code is hereby deleted and the following substituted
therefor:
 
4-3-1: OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED: No person shall allow, cause, or permit open
burning of combustible materials, except as provided in City Code section 4-3-
2. The term “open burning” shall mean any burning of combustible materials
where the products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passing
through a chimney or stack.
 
4-3-2: EXCEPTIONS:
 
A. Open burning of the following types is permitted, in compliance with Fire
Department guidelines and subject to regulations in the Iowa Administrative
Code:
 
1.   Fireplaces, wood burning stoves, barbecue grills, and propane or natural
gas fueled devices may be used for the purposes intended by such items.
 
2.   Open fires for cooking, heating, recreation and ceremonies shall be
allowed when such fire is composed of dry wood or commercial fireplace logs and
the location of such fire, and the items necessary for its containment comply
with the provisions of the fire code. However, all such fires are only
permitted between 9:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. and must be completely extinguished
by 11:00 p.m. or at the discretion of the Fire or Police Department.
 
3.   Upon permit of the fire chief or assistant fire chief, and payment of a
ten-dollar ($10.00) permit fee, the following additional items may be burned
between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. and must be completely
extinguished by 5:00 p.m. or at the discretion of the Fire or Police
Department:
 
          a.   Disaster rubbish resulting from cleanup of an area within
specifically designated disaster zones.
 
          b.   Trees and tree trimmings by a local governmental entity.
 
          c.   Waste gases via a flare stack.
 
          d.   Landscape waste such as vegetable matter waste produced in
clearing, grubbing, and construction and development operations is limited to
areas located at least one-quarter mile from any building inhabited by anyone
other than the landowner or tenant conducting the open burning.
 
          e.   Training fires as set for bona fide training of public or
industrial employees in firefighting methods.
 
          f.   Paper pesticide containers and seed corn bags resulting from
farming activities occurring on the premises.
 
B. Conditions Of Permit: All such permits shall be subject to compliance by the
applicant with the fire code and guidelines implemented by the Fire Department,
and any regulation in the Iowa Administrative Code regarding such activity.
(2008 Code § 11-2)
 
Section 2. Severability of Provisions. If any subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase, or portion of this ordinance be held invalid or unconstitutional by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portion hereof.
 
Section 3. Full Force and Effect. This ordinance shall be in full force and
effect from the date of passage and publications as required by law.
 
Section 4. Repealer. This ordinance shall be construed to repeal any prior
ordinance inconsistent herewith.
 
Section 5. Municipal Infraction. Any person, persons, firm, partnerships, or
corporations, whether acting alone or in concert with any other, who violates
this ordinance shall be guilty of a municipal infraction and shall be penalized
as set forth in Section 1-9 of the City Code of the City of Bettendorf, Iowa.
 
PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED this 1st day of July, 2025.
 
Robert S. Gallagher, Mayor
 
ATTEST: Decker P. Ploehn, City Clerk
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 14 – 25
 
ORDINANCE AMENDING THE BETTENDORF CITY CODE SECTION 6-1-285 “SPEED
RESTRICTIONS” BY ADDING A SCHOOL ZONE ON HOPEWELL AVENUE
 
 
Section One. Be It Enacted by the City Council of the city of Bettendorf, Iowa,
that Bettendorf City Code Section 6-1-285 (B-9) entitled, “Speed Restrictions”
is hereby amended by adding thereto the following:
 
   7:00 A.M. - 5:00 P.M. WHEN SCHOOL IS IN SESSION
Hopewell Avenue from 900 feet east of Triangle Court to 500 feet west of
Criswell Street, 25 miles per hour. At all other times, the speed limit shall
be as established in subsection B8 of this section.
 
Section Two. Full Force and Effect. This ordinance shall be in full force and
effect the date of passage and publication as required by law.
 
Section Three. Severability of Provisions. If any section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this ordinance be held invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be
deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision, and such holding shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portion thereof.
 
Section Four. Repealer. This ordinance shall be construed to repeal any prior
ordinance inconsistent herewith.
 
Passed, Approved and Adopted this 19th day of August, 2025.
 
Robert S. Gallagher, Mayor
 
Attest: Decker P. Ploehn, City Clerk
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 15 – 25
 
ORDINANCE AMENDING BETTENDORF CITY CODE SECTION 6-1-322(B)(2), “VEHICLES
ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTION” BY ADDING A YIELD INTERSECTION ON
ASPEN HILLS CIRCLE AT APPLE VALLEY DRIVE
 
Section One. BE IT ENACTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BETTENDORF, IOWA,
that Bettendorf City Code Section 6-1-322(B)(2) entitled, “Vehicles Entering
Stop or Yield Intersection” is hereby amended by adding thereto the following
yield intersection:
 
Aspen Hills Circle at Apple Valley Drive
 
Section Two. Full Force and Effect. This ordinance shall be in full force and
effect the date of passage and publication as required by law.
 
Section Three. Severability of Provisions. If any section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this ordinance be held invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be
deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision, and such holding shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portion thereof.
 
Section Four. Repealer. This ordinance shall be construed to repeal any prior
ordinance inconsistent herewith.
 
Passed, Approved and Adopted this 19th day of August, 2025.
 
Robert S. Gallagher, Mayor
 
Attest: Decker P. Ploehn, City Clerk
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 16-25
ORDINANCE AMENDING THE BETTENDORF, IOWA ZONING MAP FOR 5680 NORTH STREET (LOT
5, BAILEY’S FIRST ADDITION)
A-2 RURAL RESIDENCE DISTRICT TO R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
BE IT ENACTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BETTENDORF, IOWA,
 
Section 1. That the Bettendorf, Iowa, Zoning Map referred to in Section 4, and
being a part of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Bettendorf, Iowa, 1959,
insofar as the said map pertains to 5680 North Street (Lot 5, Bailey’s First
Addition) and which is now zoned A-2 Rural Residence District, is hereby
repealed and said described land shall hereinafter be zoned R-1 Single-Family
Residence
District, and the following Zoning Map, which is attached hereto and incorporated herewith and made
a part thereof, as the same pertains to said area, is enacted as a substitute
and in lieu of said District Map.
 
Section 2. Severability of Provisions. If any subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase, or portion of this
ordinance be held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall
be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portion hereof.
Section 3. Full Force and Effect. This ordinance shall be in full force and
effect from the date of passage and publication as required by law.
 
Section 4. Repealer. This ordinance shall be construed to repeal any prior
ordinance inconsistent herewith.
PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED this 2nd day of September, 2025.
 
Robert S. Gallagher, Mayor
 
ATTEST: Decker P. Ploehn, City Clerk
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 17-25
 
ORDINANCE AMENDING THE BETTENDORF CITY CODE SECTION 6-1-285(B)(8) “SPEED
RESTRICTIONS; MAXIMUM SPEEDS ON SPECIFIC STREETS” BY REDUCING THE SPEED LIMIT
ON MIDDLE ROAD FROM HOPEWELL AVENUE TO INDIANA AVENUE AND FOREST GROVE DRIVE
FROM CHAMPIONSHIP DRIVE TO COMPETITION DRIVE
 
Section One. BE IT ENACTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BETTENDORF, IOWA,
that Bettendorf City Code Section 6-1-285 (B)(8) entitled, “Speed Restrictions;
Maximum Speed on Specific Streets” is hereby amended by deleting thereto the
following:
∙   Middle Road, from Hopewell Avenue to Indiana Avenue, 40 miles per hour
∙   Forest Grove Drive, from the west city limits to 1,000 feet east of Eagle
Ridge Road, 35 miles per hour
∙   Forest Grove Drive, from Devils Glen Road to the east city limits, 40 miles
per hour
 
And by adding thereto the following:
∙   Middle Road from Hopewell Ave to 550 feet south of Forest Grove Drive, 35
miles per hour
∙   Middle Road from 550 feet south of Forest Grove Drive to 550 feet north of
Competition Drive, 15 miles per hour
∙   Middle Road from 550 feet north of Competition Drive to Indiana Avenue, 35
miles per hour
∙   Forest Grove Drive from west city limits to 425 feet east of Competition
Drive, 40 miles per hour
∙   Forest Grove Drive from 500 west of Championship Drive to 425 feet east of
Competition Drive, 15 miles per hour
∙   Forest Grove Drive from 425 feet east of Competition Drive to the east city
limits, 40 miles per hour
 
Section Two. Full Force and Effect. This ordinance shall be in full force and
effect the date of passage and publication as required by law.
 
Section Three. Severability of Provisions. If any section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this ordinance be held invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be
deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision, and such holding shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portion thereof.
 
Section Four. Repealer. This ordinance shall be construed to repeal any prior
ordinance inconsistent herewith.
 
Passed, Approved and Adopted this 7th day of October 2025
 
Robert S. Gallagher, Mayor
Attest: Decker P. Ploehn, City Clerk
 
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 18-25
 
ORDINANCE AMENDING BETTENDORF CITY CODE SECTION 6-1-131, “NO PARKING ZONES
ENUMERATED” BY ADDING A NO PARKING ZONE ON RAINFOREST DRIVE
 
Section One. BE IT ENACTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BETTENDORF, IOWA,
that Bettendorf City Code Section 6-1-322(A)(2) entitled, “Vehicles Entering
Stop Intersection” is hereby amended by adding thereto the following no parking
zone:
 
Rainforest Drive, on both sides, from Forest Grove Drive to Devils Glen Road
 
Section Two. Full Force and Effect. This ordinance shall be in full force and
effect the date of passage and publication as required by law.
 
Section Three. Severability of Provisions. If any section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this ordinance be held invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be
deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision, and such holding shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portion thereof.
 
Section Four. Repealer. This ordinance shall be construed to repeal any prior
ordinance inconsistent herewith.
 
Passed, Approved and Adopted this 7th day of October 2025
 
Robert S. Gallagher, Mayor
Attest: Decker P. Ploehn, City Clerk
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 19-25
 
ORDINANCE AMENDING BETTENDORF CITY CODE SECTION 6-1-322(B)(2), “VEHICLES
ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTION” BY ADDING A YIELD INTERSECTION ON
BLACKBERRY LANE AT LAKE VIEW COURT
 
Section One. BE IT ENACTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BETTENDORF, IOWA,
that Bettendorf City Code Section 6-1-322(B)(2) entitled, “Vehicles Entering
Stop or Yield Intersection” is hereby amended by adding thereto the following
yield intersection:
 
Blackberry Lane at Lake View Court
 
Section Two. Full Force and Effect. This ordinance shall be in full force and
effect the date of passage and publication as required by law.
 
Section Three. Severability of Provisions. If any section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this ordinance be held invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be
deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision, and such holding shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portion thereof.
 
Section Four. Repealer. This ordinance shall be construed to repeal any prior
ordinance inconsistent herewith.
 
Passed, Approved and Adopted this 7th day of October 2025
 
Robert S. Gallagher, Mayor
Attest: Decker P. Ploehn, City Clerk
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 03-15
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE REVISED BETTENDORF CITY CODE
WHEREAS, the Bettendorf city code was originally published by Municipal Code
Corporation in 1969, and it has been maintained and supplemented by Sterling
Codifiers since 1996; and
WHEREAS, in August, 2013, the city council approved entering into a contract
with Sterling Codifiers to re-organize the Bettendorf city code (res. 173-13);
that process has been completed and the new code is ready for formal adoption;
and
WHEREAS, pursuant Iowa Code section 380.8(2)(b), a public hearing has been held
and a copy of the revised code has been made available for viewing in the
office of the city clerk.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ENACTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BETTENDORF,
IOWA:
SECTION ONE.
The entirety of the Bettendorf city code (1996 edition) is hereby repealed and
amended by adopting the Bettendorf city code (2015 edition) in its entirety.
SECTION TWO.    Full Force And Effect
This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from the date of passage and
publication as required by law.
SECTION THREE.    Repealer
This ordinance shall be construed to repeal any prior ordinance inconsistent
herewith.
SECTION FOUR.    Severability Of Provisions
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
ordinance be held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portion hereof.
PASSED, APPROVED, and ADOPTED this 17th day of March, 2015.
      Robert Gallagher, Mayor
ATTEST:
Decker P. Ploehn, City Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
BETTENDORF CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments To Code
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Bettendorf. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the BETTENDORF CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents 1 . (2015 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 380.8.
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2015 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS TO CODE 1 :
   A.   Effect Of New Ordinances: All ordinances passed subsequent to this code
which amend, repeal or in any way affect this code may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion
herein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or
any portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from this code by
omission from reprinted pages. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and
printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of
such subsequent ordinances until such time as this code and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new municipal code.
   B.   Amendatory Language:
      1.   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code may be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in substantially the following language: "That section             of the
municipal code, city of Bettendorf, Iowa, is hereby amended to read as follows:
. . .". The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
      2.   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in this code is
to be added, the following language may be used: "That the municipal code, city
of Bettendorf, Iowa, is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered
        , which said section reads as follows: . . .". The new section shall
then be set out in full as desired. (2008 Code § 1-7)
 
Notes
1 2. IC § 380.2.
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions, any
part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions
thereof, or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever which
will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. (2008 Code § 1-6)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances; Exclusions
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES; EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   Repeal; Exclusions: All general ordinances of the city passed prior to
the adoption of this code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in
this code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject
to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
      1.   Ordinances promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the
city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of
the city's indebtedness.
      2.   Appropriation ordinances providing for the levy of taxes or
prescribing salaries for city officers.
      3.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations.
      4.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants, or accepting the beneficial interest in
any trust.
      5.   Ordinances establishing street grades, or naming or vacating
streets, alleys or other public places.
      6.   Improvement ordinances.
      7.   Zoning map ordinances.
      8.   Legal descriptions of urban revitalization areas and urban renewal
areas.
      9.   Franchise ordinances.
      10.   Ordinances relating to elections.
      11.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the city.
      12.   All special ordinances.
   B.   Continuing Effect: All such ordinances, as listed in subsection A of
this section, shall continue in full force and effect to the same extent as if
fully set out herein. (2015 Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Provisions Concerning Repeals:
      1.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals,
either by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance
making any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
(2015 Code)
      2.   Previously Repealed Ordinances Not Revived: The repeal of an
ordinance does not revive an ordinance previously repealed, nor affect any
rights which have accrued, any duty imposed, or any proceedings commenced under
or by virtue of the ordinance repealed. (2008 Code § 1-5)
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2015 Code)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code
or any part thereof or any portion adopted by reference therein is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof or
any portion adopted by reference therein. The city council hereby declares that
it would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2015 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Rules Of Construction
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
In the construction of this code, the following rules shall be observed, unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city
council or repugnant to the context of the provisions: (2008 Code § 1-2)
   A.   Verb Tense And Plurals: Words used in the present or past tense include
the future as well as the present and past, the singular number includes the
plural and the plural number includes the singular.
   B.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   C.   Interpretation: All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions
contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that the true
intent and meaning of the council may be fully carried out.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring an
officer of the city to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to be
construed to authorize the officer to designate, delegate and authorize
subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless
the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
   E.   Or, And: "Or" may be read "and", and "and" may be read "or" if the
sense requires it.
   F.   Nontechnical And Technical Terms: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the context and the approved usage of the language; technical
words and phrases, and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law, shall be construed according to such meaning.
   G.   Computing Time; Holidays: In computing time, the first day shall be
excluded and the last included, unless the last day falls on Sunday, in which
case the time prescribed shall be extended so as to include the whole of the
following Monday. However, when by the provisions of a statute or rule
prescribed under authority of a statute, the last day for the commencement of
any action or proceedings, the filing of any pleading or motion in a pending
action or proceedings, or the perfecting or filing of an appeal from the
decision or award of a court, board, commission or official falls on a
Saturday, a Sunday, a day on which the office of the clerk of the district
court is closed in whole or in part pursuant to the authority of the supreme
court, January 1, the third Monday in January, February 12, the third Monday in
February, the last Monday in May, July 4, the first Monday in September,
November 11, the fourth Thursday in November, December 25 and the following
Monday when any of the foregoing named legal holidays fall on a Sunday, and any
day appointed or recommended by the governor of Iowa or the president of the
United States as a day of fasting or thanksgiving, the time shall be extended
to include the next day which the office of the clerk of the court or the
office of the board, commission, or official is open to receive the filing of a
commencement of an action, pleading or a motion in a pending action of
proceeding, or the perfecting or filing of an appeal.
   H.   Officials, Boards, Commissions: Whenever reference is made to
officials, boards and commissions by title only, i.e., "council", "clerk", "the
mayor", etc., they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards and
commissions of the city of Bettendorf.
   I.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant
to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2008 Code §
1-2; amd. 2015 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this code, unless specifically defined otherwise in another
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them as follows:
CITY OR THIS CITY: The city of Bettendorf, Iowa, and extending to its several
officers, agents and employees.
CODE: The city code of Bettendorf, Iowa.
COUNCIL: The city council of Bettendorf, Iowa.
COUNTY: Scott County, Iowa.
IC: Iowa Code, as amended.
PERSON: Shall include and be applied to corporations, associations, clubs,
societies, firms, partnerships, municipalities and bodies politic and corporate
as well as to individuals.
STATE OR THE STATE: The state of Iowa. (2008 Code § 1-2; amd. 2015 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections and subsections of this code are
intended as mere catchwords to indicate the content of the section or
subsection and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections or
subsections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the
scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any section or subsection hereof,
nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such
sections or subsections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(2015 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Municipal Infractions; Civil Penalty
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Penalty Imposed: The doing of any act prohibited or declared to be
unlawful or a misdemeanor by this Code, or the omission or failure to perform
any act or duty required by this Code, unless another penalty is specified,
shall be punishable in accordance with the fine set forth in Iowa Code sections
903.1(1)(a) and 903.1(3). (Ord. 01-18, 1-2-2018)
   B.   Construction Zone; Traffic Restrictions; Penalty: When appropriate
signs delineate the beginning and ending of a construction zone, the Chief of
Police may establish speed restrictions or other traffic control measures
within that zone for the length of time of the construction project which are
more restrictive than those established in this Code. Upon removal of the
signs, the temporary restrictions shall end. Penalties for the violations of
these temporary restrictions shall be as established for the violations under
State law, including, but not limited to, any enhanced penalty for violation
occurring in construction zones. (2008 Code § 1-8)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 364.3(2).
1-4-2: MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS; CIVIL PENALTY:
   A.   Violations Subject To Civil Penalty: Except as otherwise provided in
this Code, all violations of this Code may be charged as Municipal infractions.
(2008 Code § 1-9; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Repeat Offense: A repeat offense is a recurring violation of the same
section or provision of this Code by the same individual.
   C.   Violation, Penalties And Alternative Relief:
      1.   Every violation of the provisions listed in subsection A of this
section is a Municipal infraction.
      2.   Each day a violation occurs constitutes a separate offense.
      3.   Unless specified elsewhere, a Municipal infraction is a civil
offense punishable as follows:
         a.   First offense: Seventy five dollars ($75.00).
         b.   Second offense by the same defendant of the same provision of
subsection A of this section: Two hundred dollars ($200.00).
         c.   Third or further offense by the same defendant of the same
provision of subsection A of this section: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00).
         d.   Any violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment
standard or requirement referred to in 40 CFR 403.8 by an industrial user: One
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per occurrence per day.
      4.   Any civil penalty provided herein shall be nonexclusive. The City
shall remain free to issue a Municipal infraction as well as take any other
action to end the violation.
      5.   Nothing in this section shall be a limitation on the ability of a
peace officer from issuing a citation for a violation of this Code as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this chapter.
   D.   Civil Citations: Any employee, agent, contracted service provider, or
officer of the City employed to enforce subsection A of this section may issue
a civil citation to the person who is alleged to have committed a Municipal
infraction.
      1.   The citation shall serve as notification of the violation of
subsection A of this section, shall be served by personal service or by
certified mail, return receipt requested. One copy of the citation shall be
filed with the Clerk of the District Court, and one shall be retained by the
City, the defendant shall receive one copy, and one copy shall be provided to
the City Attorney.
      2.   The citation shall contain the following information:
         a.   The name, address, date of birth, and social security number of
the alleged violator.
         b.   The name or description of the alleged infraction, attested to by
the officer issuing the citation.
         c.   The location and time of the alleged infraction.
         d.   The amount of civil penalty for the violation charged and the
court costs or the alternative relief sought, or both.
         e.   The manner, location and time in which the penalty may be paid.
         f.   The time and place of court appearance.
         g.   A statement of the penalty for failure to appear in court. (2008
Code § 1-9)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for failure to perform such duty unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2015
Code)
CHAPTER 5
ELECTIONS 1
SECTION:
1-5-1: Holding Elections
1-5-2: Election Of Officers; Terms
1-5-3: Method Of Nomination
1-5-4: Notice Of Election
1-5-5: Filing Of Nominating Petitions
1-5-6: Voter Registration; Maintenance Of List
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 376.1 et seq.
1-5-1: HOLDING ELECTIONS:
A regular city election shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in November of each odd numbered year. Other elections shall be held in
the manner provided by state law. (2008 Code § 9-1)
1-5-2: ELECTION OF OFFICERS; TERMS:
   A.   Election: There shall be a mayor and two (2) council members elected at
large and five (5) council members each of whom is elected from a ward as
defined in article A of this chapter.
   B.   Terms:
      1.   The term of office for the mayor and council shall be four (4)
years, beginning and ending at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on January 1 which
is not a Sunday or legal holiday, following the regular city election.
      2.   The terms of the council members shall be staggered with one at
large and the first, third and fifth ward council members elected in one
election cycle, and balance of the council elected in the next cycle. (2008
Code § 9-2)
1-5-3: METHOD OF NOMINATION:
Nominations for office shall be as provided in Iowa Code chapters 44 and 45 as
such chapters exist now or may be amended in the future. (2008 Code § 9-3)
1-5-4: NOTICE OF ELECTION:
The council shall call for a special election by passing a resolution calling
therefor. The city clerk shall provide a copy of the resolution to the county
commissioner of elections. The county commissioner of elections shall publish
notice pursuant to state code. (2008 Code § 9-35)
1-5-5: FILING OF NOMINATING PETITIONS:
Nominating petitions shall be filed with the office of the county auditor.
(2008 Code § 9-36; amd. 2015 Code)
1-5-6: VOTER REGISTRATION; MAINTENANCE OF LIST:
Registration of voters shall be conducted by the county commissioner of
elections (county auditor) pursuant to Iowa Code chapter 48A, as amended.
Maintenance of the voter registration list shall be performed by the county
commissioner of elections. (2008 Code § 9-37; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ELECTIONS
ARTICLE A. WARDS AND PRECINCTS
SECTION:
1-5A-1: Generally
1-5A-2: First Ward And Precincts
1-5A-3: Second Ward And Precincts
1-5A-4: Third Ward And Precincts
1-5A-5: Fourth Ward And Precincts
1-5A-6: Fifth Ward And Precincts
1-5A-1: GENERALLY:
The election wards and precincts of the city shall be as named, bounded and
described in this article. (2008 Code § 9-14)
1-5A-2: FIRST WARD AND PRECINCTS:
   A.   The First Ward shall be comprised of all of that part of the city lying
within the perimeter described as follows:
Commencing, as a point of reference, at the intersection of the State line of
the main channel of the Mississippi River with the west city limits extended;
thence north along the city limits line to the point that the city limits line
turns 90º east; thence east along the city limits line to the point that the
city limits line turns 90º north; thence north along the city limits line to
its intersection with Duck Creek; thence southeasterly along the centerline of
the meanders of Duck Creek to its intersection with Interstate 74; thence south
along the centerline of Interstate 74 to its intersection with Middle Road;
thence northeasterly along the centerline of Middle Road to its intersection
with 23rd Street; thence south along the centerline of 23rd Street to its
intersection with Duck Creek; thence southeasterly along the centerline of the
meanders of Duck Creek to its intersection with the northerly extension of 29th
Street to the centerline of the meanders of Duck Creek; thence south along said
extension to its intersection with 29th Street; thence south along the
centerline of 29th Street to its intersection with Glenn Street; thence east
along the centerline of Glenn Street to its intersection with 29th Street;
thence south along the centerline of 29th Street to its intersection with
Central Avenue; thence west along the centerline of Central Avenue to its
intersection with 28 ½ Street; thence south along the centerline of 28 ½ Street
extended to its intersection with 28th Street; thence southerly along the
centerline of 28th Street to its intersection with State Street; thence east
along the centerline of State Street to its intersection with 31st Street;
thence south along the centerline of 31st Street extended to its intersection
with the State line of the main channel of the Mississippi River; thence west
along the State line of the Mississippi River to the point of beginning.
   B.   Precinct 1 of the First Ward shall be comprised of all of that part of
the city lying within the perimeter described as follows:
Commencing, as a point of reference, beginning at the intersection of the State
line along the main channel of the Mississippi River and the western city limit
line of Bettendorf, Iowa and the eastern city limits line of Davenport, Iowa;
thence north along the said city limits line to the intersection with the
centerline of the meanders of Duck Creek; thence easterly along the centerline
of the meanders of Duck Creek to the intersection with Interstate 74; thence
south along the centerline of Interstate 74 to the intersection with Middle
Road; thence northeasterly along the centerline of Middle Road to the
intersection with 14th Street; thence south along the centerline of 14th Street
to the intersection with Central Avenue; thence east along the centerline of
Central Avenue to the intersection with 17th Street; thence south along the
centerline of 17th Street to the intersection of Mississippi Boulevard; thence
east along the centerline of Mississippi Boulevard to the intersection with
22nd Street; thence south along the centerline of 22nd Street to the
intersection with Grant Street; thence east along the centerline of Grant
Street to the intersection of 23rd Street; thence south along the centerline of
23rd Street extended to the intersection of the State line along the main
channel of the Mississippi River; thence west along the State line along the
main channel of the Mississippi River to the point of beginning.
   C.   Precinct 2 of the First Ward shall be comprised of all of that part of
the city lying within the perimeter described as follows:
Commencing, as a point of reference, beginning at the intersection of the State
line along the main channel of the Mississippi River and 23rd Street extended;
thence north along the centerline of 23rd Street extended to the intersection
with Grant Street; thence west along the centerline of Grant Street to the
intersection with 22nd Street; thence north along the centerline of 22nd Street
to the intersection with Mississippi Boulevard; thence westerly along the
centerline of Mississippi Boulevard to the intersection with 17th Street;
thence north along the centerline of 17th Street to the intersection with
Central Avenue; thence west along the centerline of Central Avenue to the
intersection with 14th Street; thence north along the centerline of 14th Street
to the intersection with Middle Road; thence easterly along the centerline of
Middle Road to the intersection with 23rd Street; thence south along the
centerline of 23rd Street to the intersection with Central Avenue; thence east
along the centerline of Central Avenue to the intersection with 28 ½ Street;
thence south along the centerline of 28 ½ Street extended to the intersection
of 28th Street; thence south along the centerline of 28th Street to the
intersection with State Street; thence easterly along the centerline of State
Street to the intersection of 31st Street; thence south along the centerline of
31st Street extended to the intersection with the State line along the main
channel of the Mississippi River; thence west along the State line along the
main channel of the Mississippi River to the point of beginning.
   D.   Precinct 3 of the First Ward shall be comprised of all of that part of
the city lying within the perimeter described as follows:
Commencing, as a point of reference, beginning at the intersection of Central
Avenue and 23rd Street; thence north along the centerline of 23rd Street to the
intersection with the centerline of the meanders of Duck Creek; thence
southeasterly along the centerline of the meanders of Duck Creek to the
intersection with 29th Street extended; thence south along 29th Street extended
to the intersection with Glenn Street; thence east along the centerline of
Glenn Street to the intersection with 29th Street; thence south along the
centerline of 29th Street to the intersection with Central Avenue; thence west
along the centerline of Central Avenue to the point of beginning.
(2008 Code §§ 9-15 through 9-17; amd. Ord. 22-21, 12-21-2021; Ord. 02-22, 3-15-
2022)
1-5A-3: SECOND WARD AND PRECINCTS:
   A.   The Second Ward shall be comprised of all of that part of the city
lying within the perimeter described as follows:
Commencing, as a point of reference, at the intersection of Duck Creek and the
west city limits; thence north along the city limits line to the point it turns
90º east; thence east along the city limits line to the point it intersects
with Crow Creek Road; thence east along the centerline of Crow Creek Road to
its intersection with Stonehaven Drive; thence southerly along the centerline
of Stonehaven Drive to its intersection with Queens Drive; thence northwesterly
along the centerline of Queens Drive to its intersection with Brunswick Drive;
thence southerly along the centerline of Brunswick Drive to its intersection
with Parkdale Drive; thence south along the centerline of Parkdale Drive to its
intersection with Brookside Drive; thence east along the centerline of
Brookside Drive to its intersection with 18th Street; thence north along the
centerline of 18th Street to its intersection with Tanglefoot Lane; thence east
along the centerline of Tanglefoot Lane to its intersection with 29th Street;
thence south along the centerline of 29th Street to its intersection with
Maplecrest Road; thence west along the centerline of Maplecrest Road to its
intersection with Stafford Boulevard; thence southerly along the centerline of
Stafford Boulevard to its intersection with Middle Road; thence southwesterly
along the centerline of Middle Road to its intersection with Duck Creek; thence
northwesterly along the centerline of the meanders of Duck Creek to the point
of beginning.
   B.   Precinct 1 of the Second Ward shall be comprised of all of that part of
the city lying within the perimeter described as follows:
Commencing, as a point of reference, beginning at the intersection of Duck
Creek and the western city limits of Bettendorf, Iowa and the eastern city
limits of Davenport, Iowa; thence north along the said city limits line to the
intersection with Spruce Hills Drive; thence east along the centerline of
Spruce Hills Drive to the intersection Woodland Lane; thence north along the
extended centerline of Woodland Lane to the intersection with Golden Valley
Drive; thence easterly along the centerline of Golden Valley Drive to the
intersection with Clover Hills Drive; thence north along the centerline of
Clover Hills Drive to the intersection with Davenshire Drive; thence easterly
along the centerline of Davenshire Drive to the intersection with Oxford Drive;
thence south along the centerline of Oxford Drive to the intersection with
Windsor Drive; thence northeasterly along the centerline of Windsor Drive to
the intersection with South Hampton Drive; thence easterly along the centerline
of South Hampton Drive to the intersection with Iverness Drive; thence east
along the centerline of Iverness Drive to the intersection with Somerset Drive;
thence northeasterly along the centerline of Somerset Drive to the intersection
with Maplecrest Road; thence southeasterly along the centerline of Maplecrest
Road to the intersection with 18th Street; thence south along the centerline of
18th Street to the intersection with Middle Road; thence westerly along the
centerline of Middle Road to intersection with Interstate 74; thence north
along the centerline of Interstate 74 to the intersection of the centerline of
the meanders of Duck Creek; thence northwesterly along the centerline of the
meanders of Duck Creek to the point of beginning.
   C.   Precinct 2 of the Second Ward shall be comprised of all of that part of
the city lying within the perimeter described as follows:
Commencing, as a point of reference, beginning at the intersection of Spruce
Hills Drive the western city limits of Bettendorf, Iowa and eastern city limits
of Davenport, Iowa; thence north along the said city limits line to the
intersection with Crow Creek Road; thence east along the centerline of Crow
Creek Road to the intersection with Stone Haven Drive; thence south along the
centerline of Stone Haven Drive to the intersection with Queens Drive; thence
westerly along the centerline of Queens Drive to the intersection of Parkdale
Drive; thence south along the centerline of Parkdale Drive to the intersection
of Brookside Drive; thence east along the centerling of Brookside Drive to the
intersection with 18th Street; thence south along the centerline of 18th Street
to the intersection with Maplecrest Road; thence northwesterly along the
centerline of Maplecrest Road to the intersection with Somerset Drive; thence
southwesterly along the centerline of Somerset Drive to the intersection with
Iverness Drive; thence west along the centerline of Iverness Drive to the
intersection with South Hampton Drive; thence northwesterly along the
centerline of South Hampton Drive to the intersection with Windsor Drive;
thence southwesterly along the centerline of Windsor Drive to the intersection
with Oxford Drive; thence north along the centerline of Oxford Drive to the
intersection with Davenshire Drive; thence west along the centerline of
Davenshire Drive to the intersection with Clover Hills Drive; thence south
along the centerline of Clover Hills Drive to the intersection with Golden
Valley Drive; thence west along the centerline of Golden Valley Drive to the
intersection of Woodland Lane extended; thence south along the centerline of
Woodland Lane extended to the intersection with Spruce Hills Drive; thence west
along the centerline of Spruce Hills Drive to the point of beginning.
   D.   Precinct 3 of the Second Ward shall be comprised of all of that part of
the city lying within the perimeter described as follows:
Commencing, as a point of reference, beginning at the intersection of Middle
Road and 18th Street; thence northwesterly along the centerline of 18th Street
to the intersection of Tanglefoot Lane; thence east along the centerline of
Tanglefoot Lane to the intersection with 29th Street; thence south along the
centerline of 29th Street to the intersection with Maplecrest Road; thence west
along the centerline of Maplecrest Road to the intersection with Stafford
Boulevard; thence south along the centerline of Stafford Boulevard to the
intersection with Middle Road; thence west along the centerline of Middle Road
to the point of beginning.
(2008 Code §§ 9-18 through 9-21; amd. Ord. 22-21, 12-21-2021; Ord. 02-22, 3-15-
2022)
1-5A-4: THIRD WARD AND PRECINCTS:
   A.   The Third Ward shall be comprised of all of that part of the city lying
within the perimeter described as follows:
Commencing, as a point of reference, at the intersection of the State line of
the main channel of the Mississippi River, the western city limits of
Riverdale, Iowa extended, and the eastern city limits of Bettendorf extended;
thence north along said city limits line to its intersection with Belmont Road;
thence easterly along the centerline of Belmont Road to its intersection with
Valley Drive; thence north along the centerline of Valley Drive to its
intersection with Crow Creek; thence northwesterly along the centerline of the
meanders of Crow Creek to its intersection with Tanglewood Road; thence
westerly along the centerline of Tanglewood Road to its intersection with
Middle Road; thence north along the centerline of Middle Road to its
intersection with Tanglewood Road extended; thence westerly along the
centerline of Tanglewood Road to its intersection with Devils Glen Road; thence
south along the centerline of Devils Glen Road to its intersection with
Tanglefoot Lane; thence west along the centerline of Tanglefoot Lane to its
intersection with 29th Street; thence south along the centerline of 29th Street
to its intersection with Maplecrest Road; thence west along the centerline of
Maplecrest Road to its intersection with Stafford Boulevard; thence southerly
along the centerline of Stafford Boulevard to its intersection with Middle
Road; thence southwesterly along the centerline of Middle Road to its
intersection with 23rd Street; thence south along the centerline of 23rd Street
to its intersection with Duck Creek; thence southeasterly along the centerline
of the meanders of Duck Creek to its intersection with the northerly extension
of 29th Street to the centerline of the meanders of Duck Creek; thence south
along said extension to its intersection with 29th Street; thence south along
the centerline of 29th Street to its intersection with Glenn Street; thence
east along the centerline of Glenn Street to its intersection with 29th Street;
thence south along the centerline of 29th Street to its intersection with
Central Avenue; thence west along the centerline of Central Avenue to its
intersection with 28 ½ Street; thence south along the centerline of 28 ½ Street
extended to its intersection with 28th Street; thence southerly along the
centerline of 28th Street to its intersection with State Street; thence east
along the centerline of State Street to its intersection with 31st Street;
thence south along the centerline of 31st Street and its southern extension to
its intersection with the Mississippi River; thence east along the meanders of
the Mississippi River to the point of beginning.
   B.   Precinct 1 of the Third Ward shall be comprised of all of that part of
the city lying within the perimeter described as follows:
Commencing, as a point of reference, beginning at the intersection of State
Street and 28th Street; thence north along the centerline of 28th Street to the
intersection with 28 ½ Street extended; thence north along the centerline of
28th ½ Street extended to the intersection with Central Avenue; thence easterly
along the centerline of Central Avenue to the intersection with 29th Street;
thence north along the centerline of 29th Street to the intersection of Glenn
Street; thence west along the centerline of Glenn Street to the intersection of
29th Street; thence north along the centerline of 29th Street extended to the
intersection with the centerline of the meanders of Duck Creek; thence
northwesterly along the centerline of the meanders of Duck Creek to the
intersection with 23rd Street; thence north along the centerline of 23rd Street
to the intersection with Middle Road; thence easterly along the centerline of
Middle Road to the intersection with Devils Glen Road; thence south along the
centerline of Devils Glen Road to the intersection with State Street; thence
westerly along the centerline of State Street to the point of beginning.
   C.   Precinct 2 of the Third Ward shall be comprised of all of that part of
the city lying within the perimeter described as follows:
Commencing, as a point of reference, beginning at the intersection of State
line of the main channel of the Mississippi River and the extended centerline
of 31st Street; thence north along the centerline of 31st Street extended to
the intersection with State Street; thence east along the centerline of State
Street to the intersection with Devils Glen Road; thence north along the
centerline of Devils Glen Road to the intersection with Middle Road; thence
northeasterly along the centerline of Middle Road to the intersection with
Belmont Road; thence southeasterly along the centerline of Belmont Road to the
intersection with the eastern city limits of Bettendorf, Iowa and the western
city limits of Riverdale, Iowa; thence south along the said city limits line to
the intersection with the State line along the main channel of the Mississippi
River; thence westerly along the State line along the main channel of the
Mississippi River to the point of beginning.
   D.   Precinct 3 of the Third Ward shall be comprised of all of that part of
the city lying within the perimeter described as follows:
Commencing, as a point of reference, beginning at the intersection of Middle
Road and Stafford Boulevard; thence north along the centerline of Stafford
Boulevard to the intersection with Maplecrest Road; thence east along the
centerline of Maplecrest Road to the intersection with 29th Street; thence
north along the centerline of 29th Street to the intersection with Tanglefoot
Lane; thence easterly along the centerline of Tanglefoot Lane to the
intersection of Devils Glen Road; thence north along the centerline of Devils
Glen Road to the intersection with Tanglewood Road; thence easterly along the
centerline of Tanglewood Road extended to the intersection with Middle Road;
thence south along the centerline of Middle Road to the intersection of
Tanglewood Road; thence easterly along the centerline of Tanglewood Road to the
intersection with the centerline of the meanders of Duck Creek; thence
southeasterly along the centerline of the meanders of Duck Creek to the
intersection with Valley Drive; thence southwesterly along the centerline of
Valley Drive to the intersection with Belmont Road; thence northwesterly along
the centerline of Belmont Road to the intersection with Middle Road; thence
southwesterly along the centerline of Middle Road to the point of beginning.
(2008 Code §§ 9-22 through 9-24; amd. Ord. 22-21, 12-21-2021)
1-5A-5: FOURTH WARD AND PRECINCTS:
   A.   The Fourth Ward shall be comprised of all of that part of the city
lying within the perimeter described as follows:
Commencing, as a point of reference, at the intersection of 53rd Avenue and
Middle Road; thence south along the centerline of Middle Road to its
intersection with Tanglewood Road extended; thence westerly along the
centerline of Tanglewood Road to its intersection with Devils Glen Road; thence
south along the centerline of Devils Glen Road to its intersection with
Tanglefoot Lane; thence west along the centerline of Tanglefoot Lane to its
intersection with 18th Street; thence south along the centerline of 18th Street
to its intersection with Brookside Drive; thence west along the centerline of
Brookside Drive to its intersection with Parkdale Drive; thence north along the
centerline of Parkdale Drive to its intersection with Brunswick Drive; thence
northwesterly along the centerline of Brunswick Drive to its intersection with
Queens Drive; thence southeasterly along the centerline of Queens Drive to its
intersection with Stone Haven Drive; thence northerly along the centerline of
Stone Haven Drive to its intersection with Crow Creek Road; thence west along
the centerline of Crow Creek Road to its intersection with the Davenport/
Bettendorf city limits line; thence north along the city limits line to the
point its turns 90 degrees to the east; thence east along the city limits line
to the point it turns 90 degrees to the north and its intersection with Forest
Grove Drive; thence east along the centerline of Forest Grove Drive to its
intersection with Devils Glen Road; thence south along the centerline of Devils
Glen Road to its intersection with Thunder Ridge Road; thence southeasterly
along the centerline of Thunder Ridge Road to its intersection with Cavan
Crossing; thence southeasterly along the centerline of Cavan Crossing to its
intersection with Wilderness Street; thence east along the centerline of
Wilderness Street to its intersection with Joshua Street; thence southeasterly
along the centerline of Joshua Street to its intersection with North Ridge
Circle; thence south along the centerline of North Ridge Circle to its
intersection with 53rd Avenue; thence east along the centerline of 53rd Avenue
to the point of beginning.
   B.   Precinct 1 of the Fourth Ward shall be comprised of all of that part of
the city lying within the perimeter described as follows:
Commencing, as a point of reference, beginning at the intersection of Brookside
Drive and Parkdale Drive; thence north along the centerline of Parkdale Drive
to the intersection with Brunswick Drive; thence northwesterly along the
centerline of Brunswick Drive to the intersection with Queens Drive; thence
southeasterly along the centerline of Queens Drive to the intersection with
Stone Haven Drive; thence north along the centerline of Stone Haven Drive to
the intersection with Crow Creek Road; thence west along the centerline of Crow
Creek Road to the intersection with the western city limits of Bettendorf, Iowa
and the eastern city limits of Davenport, Iowa; thence north along the said
city limits line to the intersection with 49th Avenue ; thence easterly along
the centerline of 49th Avenue to the intersection with Dove Court; thence north
along the centerline of Dove Court to the intersection of Hunter Road; thence
easterly along the centerline of Hunter Road to the intersection of
Chesterfield Drive; thence easterly along the centerline of Chesterfield Drive
to the intersection of Apple Valley Drive; thence south along the centerline of
Apple Valley Drive to the intersection with Crow Creek Road; thence easterly
along the centerline of Crow Creek Road to the intersection with Devils Glen
Road; thence south along the centerline of Devils Glen Road to the intersection
with Tanglefoot Lane; thence west along the centerline of Tanglefoot Lane to
the intersection with 18th Street; thence south along the centerline of 18th
Street to the intersection with Brookside Drive; thence west along the
centerline of Brookside Drive to the point of beginning.
   C.   Precinct 2 of the Fourth Ward shall be comprised of all of that part of
the city lying within the perimeter described as follows:
Commencing, as a point of reference, beginning at the intersection of 49th
Avenue and the western city limits of Bettendorf, Iowa and the eastern city
limits of Davenport, Iowa; thence north along the said city limits line to the
intersection with Forest Grove Drive; thence easterly along the centerline of
Forest Grove Drive to the intersection with Devils Glen Road; thence south
along the centerline of Devils Glen Road to the intersection with Crow Creek
Road; thence westerly along the centerline of Crow Creek Road to the
intersection with Apple Valley Road; thence north along the centerline of Apple
Valley Drive to the intersection with Chesterfield Drive; thence west along the
centerline of Chesterfield Drive to the intersection with Hunter Road; thence
northerly along the centerline of Hunter Road to the intersection with Dove
Court; thence south along the centerline of Dove Court to the intersection with
49th Avenue; thence west along the center line of 49th Avenue to the point of
beginning.
   D.   Precinct 3 of the Fourth Ward shall comprise of all of that part of the
city lying within the perimeter described as follows:
Commencing, as a point of reference, beginning at the intersection of
Tanglewood Road and Devils Glen Road; thence north along the centerline of
Devils Glen Road to the intersection with Thunder Ridge Road; thence easterly
along the centerline of Thunder Ridge Road to the intersection with Cavan
Crossing; thence southeasterly along the centerline of Cavan Crossing to the
intersection with Wilderness Street; thence easterly along the centerline of
Wilderness Street to the intersection with Joshua Street; thence southeasterly
along the centerline of Joshua Street to the intersection of North Ridge
Circle; thence south along the centerline of North Ridge Circle to the
intersection with 53rd Avenue; thence easterly along the centerline of 53rd
Avenue to the intersection with Middle Road; thence south along the centerline
of Middle Road to the intersection with Tanglewood Road extended; thence
westerly along the centerline of Tanglewood Road to the point of beginning.
(2008 Code §§ 9-25 through 9-27; amd. Ord. 22-21, 12-21-2021)
1-5A-6: FIFTH WARD AND PRECINCTS:
   A.   The Fifth Ward shall be comprised of all of that part of the city lying
within the perimeter described as follows:
Commencing, as a point of reference, at the intersection of Middle Road and
53rd Avenue; thence west along the centerline of 53rd Avenue to its
intersection with North Ridge Circle; thence north along the centerline of
North Ridge Circle to its intersection with Joshua Street; thence northwesterly
along the centerline of Joshua Street to its intersection with Wilderness
Street; thence westerly along the centerline of Wilderness Street to its
intersection with Cavan Crossing; thence northwesterly along the centerline of
Cavan Crossing to its intersection with Thunder Ridge Road; thence
northwesterly along the centerline of Thunder Ridge Road to its intersection
with Devils Glen Road; thence north along the centerline of Devils Glen Road to
its intersection with Forest Grove Drive; thence west along the centerline of
Forest Grove Drive to the city limits line; thence northerly along the city
limits line to its intersection with 210th Street; thence east along the
centerline of 210th Street to its intersection with Wells Ferry Road; thence
east along the city limits line to its intersection with Wells Ferry Road;
thence southerly along the city limits line to its intersection with the State
line of the main channel of the Mississippi River; thence westerly along the
meanders of the Mississippi River to its intersection with the city limits line
between Bettendorf and the east side of Riverdale extended; thence
northwesterly along the city limits line to its intersection with Valley Drive;
thence northeasterly along the centerline of Valley Drive to its intersection
with Crow Creek; thence northeasterly along the meanders of Crow Creek to its
intersection with Tanglewood Road; thence westerly along the centerline of
Tanglewood Road to its intersection with Middle Road; thence northeasterly
along the centerline of Middle Road to the point of beginning and excluding
therefrom the City of Panorama Park.
   B.   Precinct 1 of the Fifth Ward shall be comprised of all of that part of
the city lying within the perimeter described as follows:
Commencing, as a point of reference, beginning at the intersection of the State
line along the main channel of the Mississippi River, the eastern city limits
of Riverdale, Iowa, and the western city limits of Bettendorf, Iowa; thence
north along said city limits line to its intersection with Valley Drive; thence
northeasterly along the centerline of Valley Drive to its intersection with
Crow Creek; thence westerly along the centerline of the meanders of Crow Creek
to its intersection with Tanglewood Road; thence west along the centerline of
Tanglewood Road to its intersection with Middle Road; thence north along the
centerline of Middle Road to its intersection with 53rd Avenue; thence east
along the centerline of 53rd Avenue to its intersection with Remington Road
North; thence south along the centerline of Remington Road North to its
intersection with Century Heights Avenue; thence east along the centerline of
Century Heights Avenue to its intersection with Heatherstone Road; thence south
along the centerline of Heatherstone Road to its intersection with Crow Creek
Road; thence easterly along the centerline of Crow Creek Road to its
intersection with Valley Drive; thence easterly along the centerline of Valley
Drive to its intersection with the eastern city limits of Bettendorf, Iowa and
unincorporated Scott County, Iowa; thence south along said city limits line to
its intersection with the State line of the main channel of the Mississippi
River; thence southwesterly along the State line of the main channel of the
Mississippi River to the point of beginning and excluding therefrom the
incorporated city limits of Panorama Park, Iowa.
   C.   Precinct 2 of the Fifth Ward shall be comprised of all of that part of
the city lying within the perimeter described as follows:
Commencing, as a point of reference, beginning at the intersection of 53rd
Avenue and Middle Road; thence north along the centerline of Middle Road to its
intersection with Forest Grove Drive; thence easterly along the centerline of
Forest Grove Drive to its intersection with the eastern city limits of
Bettendorf, Iowa; thence south along the said city limits line to its
intersection with Valley Drive; thence westerly along the centerline of Valley
Drive to its intersection with Crow Creek Road; thence northwesterly along the
centerline of Crow Creek Road to its intersection with Heatherstone Road;
thence north along the centerline of Heatherstone Road to its intersection with
Century Heights Avenue; thence west along the centerline of Century Heights
Avenue to its intersection with Remington Road North; thence north along the
centerline of Remington Road North to its intersection with 53rd Avenue; thence
west along the centerline of 53rd Avenue to the point of beginning.
Ward 5, Precinct 3
   D.   Precinct 3 of the Fifth Ward shall be comprised of all of that part of
the city lying within the perimeter described as follows:
Commencing, as a point of reference, at the intersection of Middle Road and
53rd Avenue; thence west along the centerline of 53rd Avenue to its
intersection with North Ridge Circle; thence north along the centerline of
North Ridge Circle to its intersection with Joshua Street; thence northwesterly
along the centerline of Joshua Street to its intersection with Wilderness
Street; thence westerly along the centerline of Wilderness Street to its
intersection with Cavan Crossing; thence northwesterly along the centerline of
Cavan Crossing to its intersection with Thunder Ridge Road; thence
northwesterly along the centerline of Thunder Ridge Road to its intersection
with Devils Glen Road; thence north along the centerline of Devils Glen Road to
its intersection with Forest Grove Drive; thence west along the centerline of
Forest Grove Drive to the city limits line; thence northerly along the city
limits line to its intersection with 210th Street; thence east along the
centerline of 210th Street to its intersection with Wells Ferry Road; thence
southerly along the city limits line to its intersection with Forest Grove
Drive; thence west along the centerline of Forest Grove Drive to its
intersection with Middle Road; thence southwesterly along the centerline of
Middle Road to the point of beginning.
(2008 Code §§ 9-28 through 9-30; amd. Ord. 22-21, 12-21-2021)
CHAPTER 6
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Powers And Authority
1-6-2: Meetings
1-6-3: Compensation
1-6-4: Filling Vacancies In Elected Offices
1-6-1: POWERS AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Powers: The Council shall have those powers and responsibilities
provided by State law and those powers and responsibilities as set by this
Code. (2008 Code § 2-1)
   B.   Authority: The Council shall have the management and control of the
finances and of the property of the City. No elected or appointed official,
agent or employee may enter into any contract or agreement for labor,
materials, equipment or supplies or for disbursing Municipal funds unless such
power is delegated or granted by express action of the Council. (2008 Code § 2-
3)
1-6-2: MEETINGS:
   A.   Time And Place: The meetings of the Council shall be on the first and
third Tuesdays of each month in the Council Chambers of City Hall.
   B.   Open Meetings; Moving; Scheduling: The meetings shall be open to the
public and may be moved or rescheduled or additional meetings called as are
necessary. (2008 Code § 2-2)
1-6-3: COMPENSATION:
A member of the Council shall receive compensation as follows:
   A.   Compensation; Payment:
      1.   Amount: For participation in the management and control of the
finances and of the property of the City, each member of Council shall receive
six hundred forty nine dollars seventy five cents ($649.75) per calendar month.
Payment shall be withheld from any member of the Council who misses all
meetings of the Council and Committee of the Whole scheduled during the
calendar month. (Ord. 12-19, 7-2-2019, eff. 1-2-2020)
      2.   Increase: On January 1, 2001, the monthly compensation for the
Council shall be increased by the average increase in prices for the Midwest
region as established by the Federal government via the consumer's price index
for the prior twelve (12) months. Each January 1 thereafter a similar
adjustment in compensation, either up or down, shall be made based upon that
index.
   B.   Reimbursement For Expenses: There shall be reimbursement for actual
expenses incurred while in the performance of the member's duties. (2008 Code §
2-4)
1-6-4: FILLING VACANCIES IN ELECTED OFFICES:
Unless otherwise mandated by State Code, the Council, when it desires to fill a
vacancy in elected office by appointment, shall use the following procedure:
   A.   A notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in
the City indicating the vacancy and requesting resumes of interested persons.
   B.   All resumes thus obtained shall be provided to the Council.
   C.   The Council may hold a special session to review and evaluate the
resumes or conduct any interviews desired.
   D.   The Council shall thereafter appoint a person to fill the unexpired
term by resolution. (2008 Code § 2-5)
CHAPTER 7
MAYOR
SECTION:
1-7-1: Powers And Authority
1-7-2: Compensation
1-7-3: Emergency Power Of Mayor
1-7-4: Emergency Parking Restrictions
1-7-1: POWERS AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Powers: The Mayor shall have the powers and responsibilities prescribed
by State Code and those powers and responsibilities as set by this Code. (2008
Code § 2-10)
   B.   Authority:
      1.   The Mayor shall sign on behalf of the City all contracts when
authorized by the Council. The Mayor shall appoint persons to positions on the
various boards and commissions subject to Council approval and shall supervise
the City Administrator and assist the Administrator in carrying out Council
approved policies and directives. (Ord. 02-18, 1-16-2018)
      2.   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council and the
Committee of the Whole.
      3.   The Mayor shall make announcements to the Council on the state of
the City at the first meeting of the Council in January and at such other times
and on such other topics as the Mayor deems necessary for the adequate
administration of the City. (2008 Code § 2-11)
1-7-2: COMPENSATION:
The Mayor shall be paid twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) per year of
service payable in biweekly increments, plus reimbursement for actual expenses
incurred while in the performance of the Mayor's duties. On January 1, 2021,
the annual compensation for the Mayor shall be increased by the average
increase in prices for the Midwest region as established by the Federal
government via the consumer price index for the prior twelve (12) months. Each
January 1 thereafter a similar adjustment in compensation, either up or down,
shall be made based upon that index. (Ord. 12-19, 7-2-2019, eff. 1-2-2020)
1-7-3: EMERGENCY POWER OF MAYOR:
   A.   Declaration Of Emergency; Issuance Of Directions: Pursuant to Iowa Code
section 372.14 and this section, upon making a determination that a time of
emergency or public danger exists, the Mayor shall make a declaration of
emergency and shall govern the City by proclamation. Upon issuing the
declaration, the Mayor shall direct the Police, Fire and other departments to:
      1.   Take such action as will preserve and protect life.
      2.   Take such action as will preserve and minimize damage to property.
      3.   Take such action as to allow the continuation of City services to
the residents of the City.
   B.   Powers Of Mayor: Under a declaration of emergency, the Mayor shall be
empowered to:
      1.   Close public ways and places, or restrict their use.
      2.   Establish hours of curfew.
      3.   Procure by purchase or lease goods and services necessary to the
City's emergency response effort.
      4.   Contract for the repair of City buildings or facilities.
      5.   Lease such additional property or space deemed necessary for the
continued operation of City government and the providing of City services.
   C.   Violations Deemed Misdemeanor: Violation of any proclamation issued by
the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem under a declaration of emergency shall be deemed a
violation of this section and punishable as a misdemeanor as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this title.
   D.   Mayor Pro Tem Powers: In the absence of the Mayor, or the Mayor's
inability to act, the Mayor Pro Tem shall have the powers of the Mayor under
this section.
   E.   Directions To City Employees And Volunteers: The Mayor may direct City
employees and volunteers in performance of emergency response; may establish a
hierarchy of command in such response; and may, by proclamation, delegate
purchasing authority to a specific person or persons.
   F.   Time Limitation: Any declaration of emergency declared by the Mayor
shall be directly related to the emergency itself, and shall exist only for so
long as is reasonably necessary to respond to the emergency confronting the
City and its residents; it being the goal of all parties to resume normal
governance as quickly as possible. (2008 Code § 2-14)
1-7-4: EMERGENCY PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Designation Of No Parking Or Restricted Parking Zones:
      1.   Whenever construction, accident or other emergency situation
requires the designation of certain streets as no parking or parking restricted
zones, the Mayor is hereby authorized to issue an order restricting parking
valid until the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Council.
      2.   The violation of any order under this section shall subject the
owner of the vehicle involved to the fine listed in section
6-1-140 of this Code.
   B.   Signs Posted: Whenever the Mayor acts pursuant to this section, the
zone shall be marked by signs at the start and end of the zone and along so
much of it as will provide notice of the parking restriction. (2008 Code § 2-
13)
CHAPTER 8
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-8-1: Office Created; Term; Qualifications
1-8-2: Appointment Procedure
1-8-3: Powers And Duties
1-8-4: Responsibility To City Council
1-8-5: Compensation
1-8-6: Nonsupervisory Relationship To City Attorney
1-8-7: Participation In Partisan Politics Restricted
1-8-8: Initiation Of Removal
1-8-9: Duties As Clerk And Treasurer
1-8-1: OFFICE CREATED; TERM; QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Office Created: The office of the administrator is hereby created,
which office shall be filled by the favorable vote of at least two-thirds (2/3)
of all the members of the council confirming the appointment to the office by
the mayor.
   B.   Term; Removal: The city administrator shall hold office at the pleasure
of the council and shall be subject to removal only by the favorable vote of at
least two-thirds (2/3) of all the members of the council.
   C.   Qualifications: The administrator shall be qualified by experience and
training to perform the duties set forth in this chapter. (2008 Code § 2-30)
1-8-2: APPOINTMENT PROCEDURE:
In the event of a vacancy in the office of city administrator, the following
procedure shall be used:
   A.   The human resources director shall prepare a job description, position
requirements and pay range for the position, and provide them to the mayor and
council for comment.
   B.   After comments are received, considered, and incorporated, the human
resources director shall publicize the vacancy in a manner calculated to
generate interest in the position.
   C.   The mayor shall appoint three (3) council members who shall oversee the
process of candidate recruitment. Any council member requesting, however, shall
have access to the resumes received and may attend and participate in candidate
interviews. The members appointed shall advise the mayor of the names of the
persons they would consider finalists for the position.
   D.   When the candidate field is narrowed, the mayor and council shall
conduct finalist interviews. The mayor shall select one of the finalists and
recommend that selection to the council for approval. If approved, that person
shall serve as city administrator. If the council fails to approve the choice,
the mayor may select from the other finalists, or the process shall begin anew.
(2008 Code § 2-33; amd. 2015 Code)
1-8-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The powers and duties of the city administrator shall,
subject to the powers and duties of the mayor as provided by law, include the
following:
      1.   Implementing all policy directives promulgated by the mayor in the
mayor's executive capacity, and by the council in its legislative capacity.
      2.   Administration of all ordinances, resolutions, council policies and
directives.
      3.   Responsibility for all accounting and accounting procedures for the
municipality.
      4.   Preparation and administration of the city's annual operating
budget.
      5.   Supervision of the city's administrative policies and procedures,
including personnel and purchasing.
      6.   Keeping the council informed on the progress of its programs and the
status of its policies.
      7.   Coordination and direction of all city services provided through the
various departments.
      8.   Employment and removal of city employees in accordance with council
approved policies on hiring and discipline.
      9.   Studying possible joint arrangements with municipal boards and
commissions; making recommendations for such arrangements as are mutually
acceptable and coordinating these activities as agreed upon.
      10.   Assisting the mayor in any mayoral duties as requested by the
mayor.
      11.   Assisting the council and the planning and zoning commission in the
carrying out of the comprehensive plan and assisting in all other forms of
planning within the city government.
   B.   Contractual Duties: Where the city has contracted jointly with other
governmental subdivisions, the state of Iowa or the United States Of America,
the administrator shall act for the city in the execution of said contract.
   C.   Operational Control; Performance Evaluation:
      1.   The city administrator shall have daily operational control of all
city departments, with the exception of the library.
      2.   Department heads shall report to the city administrator. The city
administrator will have the responsibility for the performance evaluation and
salary adjustments of all department heads except the library director in
consultation with the council or other appropriate boards or commissions.
   D.   Work With Park Board: Recognizing that the park board is an elected
body, the administrator shall work with the board to accomplish its goals and
objectives consistent with council approved policies and funding. (2008 Code §
2-31)
   E.   Performance Of Additional Duties: The city administrator shall perform
such other duties as may hereafter be directed by the council, which duties are
not in conflict with the provisions of this chapter. (2008 Code § 2-36)
1-8-4: RESPONSIBILITY TO CITY COUNCIL:
The city administrator shall be directly responsible to the city council for
the administration of municipal affairs as directed by that body. All
departmental activity requiring the attention of the council shall be brought
before the body by the administrator, and all council involvement in
administration initiated by the council must be coordinated through the
administrator. (2008 Code § 2-32)
1-8-5: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the city administrator shall be in such amount as may from
time to time be fixed by the council. (2008 Code § 2-34)
1-8-6: NONSUPERVISORY RELATIONSHIP TO CITY ATTORNEY:
The city attorney shall not be considered to be a department head for purposes
of this chapter and shall continue to be appointed by and be directly
responsible to the city council. (2008 Code § 2-35)
1-8-7: PARTICIPATION IN PARTISAN POLITICS RESTRICTED:
The city administrator shall not, during the term of office, engage in partisan
politics in connection with city municipal elections. (2008 Code § 2-37)
1-8-8: INITIATION OF REMOVAL:
Either the mayor or any member of the city council may initiate the removal of
the city administrator. (2008 Code § 2-38)
1-8-9: DUTIES AS CLERK AND TREASURER:
   A.   Clerk: The city administrator shall serve as city clerk and perform all
duties of the clerk required by the state code or this code. (2008 Code § 2-39)
   B.   Treasurer: The city administrator shall perform such duties as are
required of the city treasurer under city or state code. No additional
compensation shall be afforded the city administrator for such service. (2008
Code § 2-20)
CHAPTER 9
CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-9-1: Appointment And Removal Procedure; Compensation
1-9-2: Duties Enumerated
1-9-3: Attendance At Meetings
1-9-1: APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL PROCEDURE; COMPENSATION:
   A.   Appointment; Term; Legal Opinions:
      1.   A city attorney shall be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the
council (as described in subsection B of this section) to hold office until
such time as the council shall initiate removal.
      2.   It shall be expected that the city attorney provide independent
legal opinions without regard to politics or impact of the opinion.
      3.   The council may appoint additional attorneys when and upon such
conditions as the council deems appropriate.
   B.   Procedure For Filling Vacancy: In the event of a vacancy in the office
of city attorney, the following procedure shall be used:
      1.   The human resources director shall prepare a job description,
position requirements (license to practice law, etc.) and pay range for the
position, and provide them to the mayor, administrator, and council for
comment.
      2.   After comments are received, considered, and incorporated, the human
resources director shall publicize the vacancy in a manner calculated to
generate interest in the position.
      3.   The mayor shall appoint three (3) council members who shall oversee
the process of candidate recruitment. Any council member requesting, however,
shall have access to the resumes received and may attend and participate in
candidate interviews. The members appointed shall advise the mayor of the names
of the persons it would consider finalists for the position.
      4.   When the candidate field is narrowed, the mayor and council shall
conduct finalist interviews. The mayor shall select one of the finalists and
recommend that selection to the council for approval. If approved, that person
shall serve as city attorney. If the council fails to approve the choice, the
mayor may select from the other finalists, or the process shall begin anew.
   C.   Term; Removal: The city attorney shall hold office at the pleasure of
the council and may be removed upon the favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of
all members of the council.
   D.   Compensation: Compensation for the city attorney and any assistants
shall be set by the council. (2008 Code § 2-40)
1-9-2: DUTIES ENUMERATED:
   A.   Preparation Of Ordinances And Resolutions:
      1.   The city attorney shall draft ordinances or resolutions upon request
of any member of the council, the mayor or the city administrator.
      2.   The city attorney shall review this code and update ordinances as
necessary but no less than once every five (5) years.
      3.   The city attorney shall review all proposed ordinances and
resolutions prior to council approval. (2008 Code § 2-41)
   B.   Litigation: The city attorney shall appear in all cases in which the
city is a party or has an interest unless otherwise directed by the council and
shall monitor cases handled on behalf of the city when not directly involved.
(2008 Code § 2-42)
   C.   Opinions: Consistent with the mandates of the open records law, the
city attorney shall exercise and maintain the attorney-client privilege. At the
direction of the mayor, council or city administrator, the city attorney may
release documents which otherwise would be covered by the attorney- client
privilege or which would be considered the work product of the attorney. (2008
Code § 2-43)
   D.   Advisory Duties: The city attorney shall act as legal advisor to the
mayor and council and the departments when requested by the council or the city
administrator. Such duties shall include responding to requests but shall be
limited to questions of compatibility of the action with city, state or federal
law and not be a review or critique of policy decisions set by others. Advisory
actions of the city attorney need not be in writing. (2008 Code § 2-44)
   E.   Drafting Documents: Upon request, the city attorney shall draft or
review contracts, leases or other documents for use by the mayor, council or
city departments. When authorized by resolution, the attorney may sign
documents on behalf of the city. (2008 Code § 2-45)
   F.   Code Enforcement: The city attorney or the assistant city attorney
shall prosecute all violations of this code. (2008 Code § 2-46)
   G.   Other Duties: The city attorney shall perform such other duties as the
council shall direct. (2008 Code § 2-47)
1-9-3: ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS:
The city attorney shall attend all regular and special meetings of the council,
the council's committee of the whole and such committees of the council or the
city's boards as the council shall direct unless excused by vacation or
illness. (2008 Code § 2-48)
CHAPTER 10
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Oath Of Office
1-10-2: Terms Of Office
1-10-3: Removal Of Appointees; Hearing
1-10-4: Department Heads
1-10-1: OATH OF OFFICE:
All officials of the City shall qualify for office by taking the following
oath:
I,                    do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of
the United States and of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and
impartially to the best of my ability discharge all the duties of the office of
                       in the City of Bettendorf as now or hereafter required
by law.
(2008 Code § 2-101)
1-10-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
Terms of elected officials shall begin and end at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon
on January 1 which is not a Sunday or legal holiday following a regular City
election for the position. (2008 Code § 2-102)
1-10-3: REMOVAL OF APPOINTEES; HEARING:
All persons appointed to City office may be removed by the officer or body
making the appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order. The
order shall give the reasons, be filed in the Office of the City Clerk, and a
copy shall be sent by certified mail to the person removed who, upon request
filed with the Clerk within thirty (30) days of the date of mailing the copy,
shall be granted a public hearing before the Council on all issues connected
with the removal. The hearing shall be held within thirty (30) days of the date
the request is filed unless the person requests a later date. (2008 Code § 2-
103)
1-10-4: DEPARTMENT HEADS:
   A.   Appointment; Approval; Salary: The City Administrator shall appoint all
department heads. All department heads shall be subject to Council approval,
and the salary for the department head shall be as the Council sets. (Ord. 02-
18, 1-16-2018)
   B.   Duties Generally: The department heads shall have those duties as are
in their job descriptions, prescribed by State Code or as contained in this
Code. (2008 Code § 2-51)
   C.   Specific Officials, Duties:
      1.   Finance Director: The Finance Director shall consult with the City
Treasurer and Mayor in addition to the City Administrator regarding
investments. The Finance Director shall provide periodic reports to the Council
on the state of City finances.
      2.   Director Of Public Works:
         a.   The Director of Public Works is hereby granted authority to
approve the change orders on contracts for the construction or repair of public
improvements; provided, that any change order shall not exceed five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) or change the size or scope of the public improvement. All
other change orders shall be subject to approval by the Council. (2008 Code §
2-52)
         b.   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee is also
authorized to review and accept on behalf of the City construction plans for
subdivision improvements that are to be accepted by the City upon completion.
In the event the Director refuses to accept or approve such plans, the property
owner may appeal to the Council for review and decision. (2008 Code § 2-52;
amd. 2015 Code)
ARTICLE A. CITY PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-10A-1: Civil Service And Retirement Systems
1-10A-2: Personnel Policies
1-10A-3: Positions And Pay Grade
1-10A-4: Appeals
1-10A-1: CIVIL SERVICE AND RETIREMENT SYSTEMS:
The city shall follow the state code as it relates to civil service, public
employer retirement and public safety employee retirement systems. (2008 Code §
2-90)
1-10A-2: PERSONNEL POLICIES:
Personnel policies, including sick leave and vacation, shall be established
from time to time by the council by resolution. The policies shall be codified
in an employee's handbook and distributed to the employees. (2008 Code § 2-91)
1-10A-3: POSITIONS AND PAY GRADE:
   A.   Classifications, Job Descriptions And Pay Grades: The council has
adopted by resolution a classification, job description and pay grade for each
position in the city. Some pay grades may be established through collective
bargaining. (2008 Code § 2-92)
   B.   Changes In Position: Upon a vacancy in a position, the city
administrator shall determine whether the position's duties and pay grade
should be changed. In the event the position's duties and pay grade are not to
be changed and the position is budgeted, the administrator may fill the
position. If the administrator recommends a change in either duties or pay
grade, the administrator shall report the recommendation to the council, and
the vacancy shall not be filled until the council acts thereon. (2008 Code § 2-
93)
   C.   New Positions: No position shall be created unless a job description
and pay grade is established therefor. (2008 Code § 2-94)
1-10A-4: APPEALS:
   A.   Request For Review: An employee may at any time submit a written
request to his department head for a review of the classification and/or
compensation of his position setting forth the employee's reasons justifying
the review.
   B.   Investigation: The department head will make an investigation of the
position with the purpose of determining if the employee's request is justified
and will report the findings in writing to the city administrator and to the
employee.
   C.   Department Head Decision Appealed To Administrator: The decision of the
department head may be appealed to the city administrator who may review the
decision, take any additional evidence deemed necessary and affirm or modify
the decision of the department head. The administrator's decision shall be
final unless a collective bargaining agreement provides for further review.
(2008 Code § 2-95)
CHAPTER 11
MISCELLANEOUS ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Leasing Of Space
1-11-1: LEASING OF SPACE:
City departments, upon the approval of the administrator, may lease space in
city facilities to a private vendor, upon such terms and conditions as are
deemed appropriate, provided no such lease may extend beyond three (3) years
without public hearing and council approval as provided by law; and provided
further, that any such lease must provide materials and/or services
complementary to the functioning of the city facility. (2008 Code § 2-115)
TITLE 2
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
CHAPTER 1
BOARDS GENERALLY
SECTION:
2-1-1: Compensation; Vacancies; Appointments; Procedure
2-1-1: COMPENSATION; VACANCIES; APPOINTMENTS; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Serving Without Compensation: Persons appointed to any board shall
serve without compensation therefor.
   B.   Appointments To Vacancies:
      1.   Appointments to vacancies on a board shall be deemed to fill the
unexpired term for which the appointment is made.
      2.   The mayor shall appoint to fill any vacancy subject to approval by
the council.
   C.   Expiration Of Term: In the event a member's term expires, the member
shall hold over until a successor is appointed.
   D.   Authority To Establish Rules And Regulations: All boards shall have
authority to establish rules and regulations governing the procedures used by
the board. (2008 Code § 2-60)
CHAPTER 2
BETTENDORF FUND BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Bettendorf Fund
2-2-2: Bettendorf Fund Board
2-2-1: BETTENDORF FUND:
   A.   Fund Established: There is hereby established a "Bettendorf fund",
which shall be a separate fund from the general revenues of the city, to be
used as an incentive to enable development and redevelopment to occur in the
city. Persons or businesses donating to the fund may do so with the
understanding and expectation that such donations will be used exclusively for
that purpose. In addition, the city's finance director and community
development director shall serve as ex officio members.
   B.   Trust Account; Disbursement Of Funds: The funds shall be held in a
trust account at a bank or savings and loan having a branch in Bettendorf. The
trustee shall be authorized to invest any funds held in the same manner and
with the same restrictions as the investment of other public funds. The trustee
shall disburse funds upon a resolution by the Bettendorf fund board and by the
city council so authorizing. Interest and principal may be used for any
development or redevelopment project. (2008 Code § 2-82)
2-2-2: BETTENDORF FUND BOARD:
   A.   Board Established; Compensation: There is hereby established a
Bettendorf fund board composed of seven (7) members who shall serve without
compensation.
   B.   Terms: The members of the board shall serve for a three (3) year term.
For purposes of staggering terms under this section, upon initial appointment,
three (3) members shall serve for one year, three (3) members shall serve for
two (2) years, and one member shall serve for three (3) years.
   C.   Appointment; Qualifications: Members shall be appointed by the mayor
and approved by the council. Members should have background or experience in
economic development projects, although at least one member shall represent the
public generally. Nominations for the board may be received from the council,
Bettendorf chamber of commerce, Bettendorf Development Corporation, and
interested citizens.
   D.   Duties: Members shall:
      1.   Assist in fundraising efforts.
      2.   Evaluate proposals for expenditures from the fund.
      3.   Authorize expenditures from the fund (no money will be spent,
however, without council concurrence).
      4.   Perform such other duties as the mayor and council shall direct.
(2008 Code § 2-83)
CHAPTER 3
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION; PLANNING DEPARTMENT 1
SECTION:
2-3-1: Commission Created; Appointment
2-3-2: Qualifications
2-3-3: Terms
2-3-4: Vacancies
2-3-5: Compensation; Conflict Of Interest
2-3-6: Powers And Duties
2-3-7: Commission Meetings
2-3-8: Annual Report
2-3-9: Director Of Community Development, Staff Advisor
2-3-10: Council Members Attend Meetings; Assistance By City Officials
2-3-11: Report To Council
2-3-12: Community Development Department
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 392.1 et seq.
2-3-1: COMMISSION CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created and established in the city a city planning and zoning
commission consisting of seven (7) members who shall be appointed by the mayor,
subject to the approval of the council. (2008 Code § 22-1)
2-3-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
All members of the planning and zoning commission shall be citizens and
residents of the city and qualified by knowledge or experience to act in
matters pertaining to the development and execution of a city plan. No person
holding an elective office in the city shall be eligible to appointment upon
the commission. (2008 Code § 22-2)
2-3-3: TERMS:
The term of office of members of the planning and zoning commission shall be
five (5) years from the date of the appointment of each respective member. The
expiration date for all terms of office shall be the first Monday in November;
however, all members shall hold over until their successors are appointed and
approved. (2008 Code § 22-3)
2-3-4: VACANCIES:
Any vacancy in the membership of the commission shall be filled by the mayor,
subject to the approval of the council, for the remainder of the vacant term.
(2008 Code § 22-4)
2-3-5: COMPENSATION; CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
No member of the planning and zoning commission shall receive any compensation
for his services nor shall any member of the commission act or join in any
action hereunder in which said member has a direct financial interest. (2008
Code § 22-5)
2-3-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
Such commission shall have and possess the following powers, and such other
powers as may be incidental to the successful carrying out of the powers vested
in it herein or such as may be expressly conferred upon it by law:
   A.   To make such surveys, studies, maps, plans or plats of the whole or any
portion of the city and of any land outside thereof, which in the opinion of
such commission bears relation to a comprehensive plan, and shall submit such
plan to the council with its studies and recommendations and it may publish
same.
   B.   To prepare a comprehensive plan regarding the height, number of stories
and size of buildings and other structures; the percentage of ground that may
be occupied; the size of yards, courts and other open spaces; the density of
population; the location and use of buildings, structures and land for trade,
industry, residence or other purposes and to this end shall prepare a
preliminary report and hold public meetings thereon and after such meetings
have been held to submit its final report and recommendations to the city
council.
   C.   To recommend to the city council, from time to time as conditions
require, amendments, supplements, changes or modifications in the comprehensive
plan prepared by it.
   D.   To review and give its recommendation on (before approval by the city
council) all plans, plats or replats of subdivisions or resubdivisions of land
embraced in the city or adjacent thereto, laid out in lots or plats with the
streets, alleys, or other portions of the same intended to be dedicated to the
public, and all proposals for the vacation or partial vacation of a street,
alley or public ground. (2008 Code § 22-6)
2-3-7: COMMISSION MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The planning and zoning commission shall hold regular
meetings at least once each month at such time and place as it may by
resolution determine.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be held upon the call of the
chairman of the commission or upon written request signed by at least three (3)
members of the commission. At least twenty four (24) hours' notice shall be
given of any special meeting. (2008 Code § 22-7)
2-3-8: ANNUAL REPORT:
In January of each year, the planning and zoning commission shall make a report
to the mayor and council of the matters received, handled and pending and the
progress of its work for the preceding twelve (12) months. (2008 Code § 22-9)
2-3-9: DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT, STAFF ADVISOR:
   A.   The director of community development or the director's designee shall
serve as a staff advisor to the planning and zoning commission, shall assist
the commission in the performance of its duties, and advise the commission on
proposed changes in this code, and compliance by applicants with such code at
the time of commission review.
   B.   The director shall make such city facilities, records, or supplies
available as will enable the commission to perform its function. (2008 Code §
22-10)
2-3-10: COUNCIL MEMBERS ATTEND MEETINGS; ASSISTANCE BY CITY OFFICIALS:
   A.   Council Attending Meetings: The members of the council may attend the
meetings of the planning and zoning commission for the purpose of study,
consultation or discussion of any of the problems coming before the commission.
   B.   Assistance By City Officials: It shall be the duty of all officers and
employees of the city to give such aid and assistance to the commission and its
members as will enable the commission most effectively to perform its duties,
and the clerk and the heads of the departments of the city are hereby
authorized and directed to furnish to the commission, upon its request, any
records, documents, ordinances, plats, maps, charts or other information which
may be in the possession of the clerk or a department and which the commission
may need for its consideration in connection with its duties. (2008 Code § 22-
11)
2-3-11: REPORT TO COUNCIL:
The planning and zoning commission shall promptly handle any matter brought
before it, and shall report the decision rendered in any matter to the council
for such further action as the council deems appropriate. (2008 Code § 22-12)
2-3-12: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Department Created: There is hereby created a community development
department for the city. (2008 Code § 22-25; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Duties And Functions: It shall be the duty and function of the
community development department to advise, assist and consult with the city
planning and zoning commission in the exercise of its duties and powers and to
advise, assist and consult with the council in the formulation and execution of
such plans as the council or this chapter shall direct. (2008 Code § 22-26;
amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 4
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION
ARTICLE A. BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-4A-1: Composition; Functions; Qualifications
2-4A-2: Appointment And Powers
2-4A-1: COMPOSITION; FUNCTIONS; QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Board Created; Composition: In order to determine the suitability of
alternate materials and types of construction in the construction of buildings
and to provide for reasonable interpretations of the provisions of the
construction and technical codes adopted by the city, there shall be and is
hereby created a board of appeals constituted as follows:
      1.   Two (2) members shall be in the construction field or a related
field, one of which may be a bonded contractor in the city;
      2.   One member shall be associated with a fire department, or have
experience in the firefighting profession;
      3.   One member shall be associated with an architectural firm or have
experience in the architectural profession;
      4.   One member shall be a representative of the general citizenry of the
city. (2008 Code § 2-61)
   B.   Qualifications; Experienced With Adopted Codes: All members shall be
qualified and experienced and trained to pass on matters pertaining to building
construction, occupancy, abatement and fire hazards as set forth in the adopted
building code, property maintenance code, residential code and the fire code.
(2008 Code § 2-61; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   Building Inspector: The building inspector shall act as the secretary
of the board, and he/she will also be an ex officio member except on items
related to the fire code.
   D.   Fire Code: The fire chief or chief's designee shall be an ex officio
member of the board on items relating to the fire code. (2008 Code § 2-61)
2-4A-2: APPOINTMENT AND POWERS:
   A.   Appointment; Terms: The members of the board of appeals shall be
appointed by the mayor subject to council approval and shall serve a two (2)
year term.
   B.   Powers And Authority:
      1.   The board shall have the power to decide questions of interpretation
of the various building, fire and residential codes, and the various city
departments shall be bound thereby. (2008 Code § 2-62; amd. 2015 Code)
      2.   The board may make recommendations to the council on changes to any
code within its purview. (2008 Code § 2-62)
ARTICLE B. ELECTRICAL COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-4B-1: Board Created; Function
2-4B-2: Appointment And Qualifications
2-4B-3: Term; Compensation
2-4B-4: Meetings; Quorum
2-4B-1: BOARD CREATED; FUNCTION:
There is hereby created a board known as the Electrical Commission, which shall
consist of five (5) members which shall exist for the purpose of determining
the proper installation of electrical facilities, suitability of alternate
materials, and the reasonable interpretation of the "National Electrical Code".
(Ord. 27-17, 8-1-2017)
2-4B-2: APPOINTMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Composition And Qualifications: The commission shall be constituted as
follows:
      1.   Two (2) members shall be licensed electrical contractors, residents
of the City and shall have been engaged in the business of electrical
contracting in the City prior to their appointment on the commission.
      2.   One member shall be a journeyman electrician who has worked as a
journeyman electrician in the City for at least two (2) years prior to his
appointment to the commission.
      3.   One member shall be an electrical engineer in the employment of the
electric utility company serving the City.
      4.   One member shall be a layman.
   B.   Appointment: The members of the commission shall be appointed by the
Mayor, subject to the majority consent of the Council. (Ord. 27-17, 8-1-2017)
2-4B-3: TERM; COMPENSATION:
   A.   Term: The members of the commission shall be appointed and shall hold
office for a term of two (2) years, or until their successors are appointed and
qualified.
   B.   Compensation: The members shall serve without compensation. (Ord. 27-
17, 8-1-2017)
2-4B-4: MEETINGS; QUORUM:
   A.   A majority of the commission shall constitute a quorum to transmit
business.
   B.   The commission may establish procedures, including manner of electing a
Chairperson, as are necessary to allow for orderly conduct of its meeting.
   C.   Meetings shall be called by the Chair or by any two (2) members of the
commission, in compliance with the Open Meetings Law, chapter 21 of the State
Code. (Ord. 27-17, 8-1-2017)
ARTICLE C. MECHANICAL BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-4C-1: Board Created; Appointment; Function
2-4C-2: Composition; Qualifications
2-4C-3: Term; Compensation
2-4C-4: Removal Of Members; Grounds
2-4C-5: Quorum; Duties And Authority
2-4C-1: BOARD CREATED; APPOINTMENT; FUNCTION:
   A.   Creation; Appointment: There is hereby created a board known as the
mechanical board of appeals, which shall consist of five (5) members appointed
by the mayor, subject to the majority consent of the council. (2008 Code §§
16.5-9, 16.5-10)
   B.   Function: The board shall determine the suitability of alternate
materials and methods of construction and shall provide reasonable
interpretations of the mechanical code.
   C.   Mechanical Inspector: The mechanical inspector shall be an ex officio
member of the board and shall act as secretary to said board. (2008 Code §
16.5-9)
2-4C-2: COMPOSITION; QUALIFICATIONS:
The board shall be constituted as follows:
   A.   Two (2) members shall be heating, ventilating and air conditioning
contractors, who shall have been engaged in the contracting business within the
city prior to their appointment on the board. Preference in appointment shall
be given when possible to Bettendorf residents.
   B.   One member shall be a heating engineer in the employment of MidAmerican
Energy Company.
   C.   Two (2) members shall be either in the heating trade or a closely
allied field. (2008 Code § 16.5-11)
2-4C-3: TERM; COMPENSATION:
   A.   Term: The members of the board shall be appointed and shall hold office
for a term of two (2) years, or until their successors are appointed and
qualified. (2008 Code § 16.5-12; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Compensation: Members shall serve without compensation. (2008 Code §
16.5-12)
2-4C-4: REMOVAL OF MEMBERS; GROUNDS:
The mayor may, subject to the majority consent of the council, remove any
member of the board for incompetency or improper conduct. (2008 Code § 16.5-13)
2-4C-5: QUORUM; DUTIES AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Quorum: A majority of the board shall constitute a quorum to transact
business.
   B.   Duties And Authority: The board shall:
      1.   Adopt written rules for the conduct of business;
      2.   Have the power to change and amend the rules; and
      3.   Recommend to the city council reasonable fees to be paid for the
inspection of mechanical equipment installed or altered in the city. (2008 Code
§ 16.5-14)
ARTICLE D. PLUMBING BOARD
SECTION:
2-4D-1: Appointment; Qualifications
2-4D-2: Term
2-4D-3: Quorum
2-4D-4: Powers And Duties
2-4D-1: APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Board Established; Appointment: There is hereby established a plumbing
board, which shall consist of five (5) members, appointed by the mayor with
approval by the council.
   B.   Qualifications:
      1.   Two (2) of the members shall be licensed as plumbing contractors by
the city;
      2.   One member shall be either an architect or engineer; and
      3.   The balance of the members shall not be required to hold any special
license or have experience unique to the plumbing trade. (2008 Code § 23-8)
2-4D-2: TERM:
The term of office shall be a two (2) year term commencing April 1 of each
year. Once appointed, a member may hold over until a successor is appointed and
qualified. (2008 Code § 23-9)
2-4D-3: QUORUM:
A majority of the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the
business of the board. A majority of those present shall be necessary for
approval of any matter under consideration by the board. (2008 Code § 23-10)
2-4D-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Function And Duties:
      1.   The board shall determine the suitability of alternate materials and
methods of construction and shall provide reasonable interpretations of the
plumbing code.
      2.   The board shall, upon application of any party, resolve questions of
interpretation of either title 10, chapter 6 of this code, or any uniform
plumbing code adopted by the city.
      3.   The board may adopt such rules as will implement any of these powers
or duties.
   B.   Plumbing Inspector: The plumbing inspector shall be an ex officio
member of the board and shall act as secretary to said board. (2008 Code § 23-
11)
CHAPTER 5
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-5-1: Appointment; Composition; Terms
2-5-2: Compensation; Expenditures; Limitations
2-5-3: Election Of Officers; Terms
2-5-4: Powers And Duties Generally
2-5-5: Meetings; Rules; Quorum
2-5-6: Open Meetings And Records; Exceptions
2-5-7: Appoint And Prescribe Duties Of Staff
2-5-8: Cooperation With Other Agencies
2-5-1: APPOINTMENT; COMPOSITION; TERMS:
   A.   Appointment; Composition:
      1.   There is hereby created a human rights commission, which shall
consist of seven (7) members, appointed by the mayor, with the advice and
consent of the council.
      2.   Appointments shall take into consideration the various racial,
religious, cultural and social groups in the city.
   B.   Terms: Two (2) of the initial appointees shall serve until January 1,
2005, three (3) shall serve until January 1, 2006, and two (2) shall serve
until January 1, 2007. Subsequent appointees shall serve for a term of three
(3) years and thereafter or until a successor has been appointed.
   C.   Vacancies: Vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired
term. (2008 Code § 8-12)
2-5-2: COMPENSATION; EXPENDITURES; LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Compensation; Expenses: The members of the commission shall serve
without compensation; provided, that they may receive actual and necessary
expenses incurred, within the limits established in the city budget.
   B.   Expenditures; Limitations: The council shall provide the commission
with funds to enforce this chapter and title 5, chapter 3 of this code. The
commission is not authorized to spend any funds in excess of the funds provided
by the council. (2008 Code § 8-13)
2-5-3: ELECTION OF OFFICERS; TERMS:
   A.   Officers:
      1.   The commission shall elect from its membership at its regular
January meeting, its chair and vice chair, each to serve for a term of one
year. It may elect such other officers as it deems necessary or appropriate.
      2.   Immediately upon its creation, the commission shall meet and elect
its officers to serve until the following January meeting.
   B.   Vacancies: The commission shall fill vacancies among its officers for
the remainder of the unexpired term. (2008 Code § 8-14)
2-5-4: POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY:
The commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To receive, investigate, mediate and determine the merits of charges or
complaints alleging unfair or discriminatory practices, as provided in this
chapter and title 5, chapter 3 of this code.
   B.   To investigate and study the existence, character, causes and extent of
discrimination in public accommodations, employment, apprenticeship programs,
on the job training programs, vocational schools, credit practices, and housing
in the city and to attempt the elimination of such discrimination by education
and conciliation. (2008 Code § 8-15)
   C.   To issue such publications and reports of investigations and research
as, in the judgment of the commission, shall tend to promote goodwill among the
various racial, religious, and ethnic groups of the city and which shall tend
to minimize or eliminate discrimination in public accommodations, employment,
apprenticeship and on the job training programs, vocational schools, or housing
because of race, creed, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity,
national origin, religion, ancestry, or disability. (2008 Code § 8-15; amd.
2015 Code)
   D.   To prepare and transmit to the mayor and the council from time to time,
but not less often than once each year, reports describing its proceedings,
investigations, hearings conducted and the outcome thereof, decisions rendered,
and the other work performed by the commission.
   E.   To make recommendations to the mayor and the council for such further
legislation concerning discrimination as it may deem necessary and desirable.
   F.   To cooperate, within the limits of any appropriations made for its
operation, with other agencies or organizations, both public and private, whose
purposes are consistent with those of this chapter and title 5, chapter 3 of
this code, and in the planning and conducting of programs designed to eliminate
racial, religious, cultural and intergroup tensions.
   G.   To adopt, publish, amend, and rescind regulations consistent with and
necessary for the enforcement of this chapter and title 5, chapter 3 of this
code.
   H.   To receive, administer, dispense and account for any funds that may be
voluntarily contributed to the commission and any grants that may be awarded
the commission for furthering the purposes of this chapter and title 5, chapter
3 of this code.
   I.   To defer a complaint to any other civil rights commission asserting
jurisdiction or already processing the complaint, to refer to the state any
complaint in which the city, its employees or agents are a respondent, or any
other referral as may be agreed upon by the complainant and respondent.
   J.   To issue subpoenas and order discovery as provided by this section in
aid of investigations and hearings of alleged discrimination. The subpoenas and
discovery may be ordered to the same extent and are subject to the same
limitations as subpoenas and discovery in a civil action in district court.
   K.   To defer proceedings and refer a complaint to a local commission that
has been recognized by the United States department of housing and urban
development as having adopted ordinances providing fair housing rights and
remedies that are substantially equivalent to those granted under federal law.
   L.   To utilize volunteers to aid in the conduct of the commission's
business including case processing functions such as intake, screening,
investigation, and mediation. (2008 Code § 8-15)
2-5-5: MEETINGS; RULES; QUORUM:
   A.   Regular Meetings, Time And Place: The commission shall meet at six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. on the first Wednesday of each month, or as needed, in the
council chambers at city hall.
   B.   Special Meetings: The chair, the vice chair, or any three (3) members
of the commission may call a special meeting by giving at least one full day's
notice to every member of the commission. The call for a special meeting shall
include an agenda, and only matters included in that agenda may be discussed at
the meeting.
   C.   Quorum: A quorum of the commission shall be four (4) members. A
majority of the members present and voting shall be necessary for the passage
of any motion; the chair shall vote as a member of the commission.
   D.   Rules: The commission may adopt, amend, or rescind such rules as may be
necessary for the conduct of its business. (2008 Code § 8-16)
2-5-6: OPEN MEETINGS AND RECORDS; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Public Meetings; Exceptions: All meetings of the commission shall be
public meetings, except:
      1.   The commission may, when necessary to prevent irreparable and
needless injury to the reputation of an individual whose employment or
discharge is under consideration, hold a closed session by affirmative vote of
two-thirds (2/3) of its members; the votes on such a motion are to be recorded
in the minutes by yeas and nays. No action may be taken in executive session;
however, upon the conclusion of an executive session, the commission may
reenter open session and decide any matter by motion recorded in the minutes of
the open session.
      2.   The commission shall hold a closed session for consideration of any
charge or complaint, as provided in this chapter and title 5, chapter 3 of this
code and for deliberations in connection with a public hearing held pursuant to
a complaint filed with the commission.
   B.   Public Records; Exceptions: All records of the commission shall be
public, except:
      1.   Charges, complaints, reports of investigations, statements and other
documents or records obtained in an investigation of any charges shall be
closed records unless they are used in public session or district court action
as provided in this chapter and title 5, chapter 3 of this code.
      2.   The minutes of any session which is closed under the provisions of
subsection A2 of this section shall be closed records.
   C.   Confidential Information: No member of the commission or of its staff
shall disclose the filing of a charge, the information gathered during the
investigation, or the endeavors to eliminate a discriminatory or unfair
practice by conference, conciliation, or persuasion, unless the disclosure is
made in connection with the conduct of the investigation or after the
commission has held a public hearing upon a complaint filed in connection with
the charge. This section does not prevent any complainant, witness or other
person from publicizing the filing of a charge or complaint or of the matter
therein complained, or the release of information to state or federal agencies
investigating the same or similar complaints. (2008 Code § 8-17)
2-5-7: APPOINT AND PRESCRIBE DUTIES OF STAFF:
Consistent with budgeting authority granted by the city council, the commission
may appoint and prescribe the duties of its director and other members of its
staff. (2008 Code § 8-18)
2-5-8: COOPERATION WITH OTHER AGENCIES:
The commission shall cooperate with the state civil rights commission, the
United States civil rights commission, the federal equal employment opportunity
commission and other agencies with similar purposes. (2008 Code § 8-19)
CHAPTER 6
FAMILY MUSEUM OF ARTS AND SCIENCES BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
2-6-1: Museum Established; Purpose
2-6-2: Director Of Museum
2-6-3: Board Of Trustees; Appointment; Qualifications
2-6-4: Terms
2-6-5: Compensation
2-6-6: Duties And Responsibilities
2-6-7: Expenditure Of Funds
2-6-1: MUSEUM ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE:
There is hereby established the "Family Museum Of Arts And Sciences At The
Learning Campus" composed of the former Children's Museum And Center For The
Cultural Arts, whose purpose shall be to provide for the cultural enrichment of
the city and quad city community through the establishment of a children's
museum and teaching the performing arts, visual arts and sciences. (2008 Code §
15-1)
2-6-2: DIRECTOR OF MUSEUM:
The director of the Family Museum of Arts and Sciences at the Learning Campus
shall be appointed by the city administrator. The director shall seek guidance
from the board on those matters entrusted to it under section
2-6-6 of this chapter, but shall report to and be subject to the city
administrator in all other matters. The role of the director of the Family
Museum of Arts and Sciences at the Learning Campus may be assumed by the
director of Culture and Recreation, a position combining the director of the
Family Museum of Arts and Sciences at the Learning Campus and the director of
parks and recreation, as the city administrator may decide, in consultation
with the city council. References in the City Code to the director of the
Family Museum of Arts and Sciences at the Learning Campus shall operate to
pertain to the director of Culture and Recreation in those circumstances that a
director of Culture and Recreation is in place. (2008 Code § 15-7; amd. Ord.
17-21, 10-19-2021)
2-6-3: BOARD OF TRUSTEES; APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Composition; Qualifications: The board of trustees for the museum shall
consist of no more than eleven (11) members, six (6) of whom shall be residents
of the city. All members of the board shall be at least eighteen (18) years of
age.
   B.   Appointment: The board shall be appointed by the mayor with approval of
the council. One council member appointed by the mayor may serve as ex officio
member of the board. (2008 Code § 15-2)
2-6-4: TERMS:
   A.   Appointment; Vacancy: Appointments shall be for a three (3) year period
commencing July 1. Appointments shall be made, as near as possible, to stagger
the terms. Appointments made to fill a vacancy shall be for the balance of the
term.
   B.   Resignation: A board member shall be deemed to resign the appointment
upon any of the following:
      1.   Moving personal residence outside of Bettendorf when appointed to a
Bettendorf resident position.
      2.   Four (4) consecutive absences from regular board meetings, unless
excused by illness or temporary absence from the city. A board member who has
missed four (4) regular meetings may make a request to the board to remain a
member. Upon approval by two-thirds (2/3) majority of the full board, the
absences will be excused and the member allowed to continue. (2008 Code § 15-3)
2-6-5: COMPENSATION:
No member of the board shall receive any compensation for service thereon.
(2008 Code § 15-4)
2-6-6: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The board shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
   A.   To meet and organize the selection of one of their members to serve as
president and such other officers as the board shall deem appropriate.
   B.   To establish its rules of procedure, time and place of meeting, and
votes required, so long as such rules do not violate the municipal or state
code requirements.
   C.   To establish policies concerning hours of operation, classes provided,
and exhibits presented consistent with budgeted amounts.
   D.   To work with and support the department and other city officials in the
promotion of the museum and learning campus.
   E.   To accept on behalf of the city gifts or items deemed appropriate for
use by the museum, funds given to the department, establish long range
strategic directives for the facility and work toward their achievement.
   F.   To recommend to the mayor the appointment of persons to serve on the
board.
   G.   To establish such committees or task forces as will assist the board in
implementing the above duties. (2008 Code § 15-5)
2-6-7: EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS:
No funds shall be expended by the department except in conformance with council
policies and as are allocated in the department budget. (2008 Code § 15-6)
CHAPTER 7
LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
2-7-1: Library Established
2-7-2: Board Established; Qualifications
2-7-3: Terms Of Office; Resignation
2-7-4: Powers And Duties
2-7-5: Contracts
2-7-6: Authorizing Nonresident Use Of Library
2-7-7: Library Account
2-7-8: Annual Report
2-7-9: Unauthorized Retention Of Library Materials; Enforcement
2-7-1: LIBRARY ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established the Bettendorf Public Library for the use of the
residents of the city and existing under the rules and regulations promulgated
by the library board of trustees. (2008 Code § 2-64)
2-7-2: BOARD ESTABLISHED; QUALIFICATIONS:
There is hereby established a library board of trustees consisting of seven (7)
persons who must be and remain residents of the city and who have attained the
age of eighteen (18) years. (2008 Code § 2-65)
2-7-3: TERMS OF OFFICE; RESIGNATION:
   A.   Terms: All appointments to the board shall be for a term of six (6)
years commencing July 1. (2008 Code § 2-66; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Resignation: A board member shall be deemed to have resigned if the
member moves from the city or is absent from four (4) regularly scheduled
meetings of the board during a fiscal year. The library board may grant one
exception by two- thirds (2/3) vote of the entire board. (2008 Code § 2-66)
2-7-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   A.   To meet and elect from its members a president, a secretary and such
other officers as it deems necessary. The city treasurer shall serve as board
treasurer but shall not be a member of the board.
   B.   To have charge, control and supervision of the public library, its
appurtenances, fixtures and rooms containing the same.
   C.   To direct and control all the affairs of the library.
   D.   To employ a library director and authorize the library director to
employ employees as may be necessary for the proper management of the library
and fix their compensation; provided, however, that prior to such employment,
the compensation of the library director and employees shall have been fixed
and approved by a majority of the members of the board voting in favor thereof.
(2008 Code § 2-67)
   E.   To remove by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the board the library director
and provide procedures for the removal of employees for misdemeanor,
incompetency or inattention to duty subject, however, to the provisions of Iowa
Code chapter 66. (2008 Code § 2-67; amd. 2015 Code)
   F.   To select or authorize the library director to select and make
purchases of books, pamphlets, magazines, periodicals, papers, maps, journals,
other library materials, furniture, fixtures, stationery and supplies for the
library within budgetary limits set by the board.
   G.   To authorize the use of the library by nonresidents of the city and to
fix charges therefor.
   H.   To make and adopt, amend, modify or repeal rules and regulations not
inconsistent with ordinances and the law for the care, use, government and
management of the library and the business of the board, fixing and enforcing
penalties for violations.
   I.   To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all funds allocated for
library purposes by the council and of all monies available by gift or
otherwise for the erection of library buildings and of all other monies
belonging to the library including fines and rentals collected under the rules
of the board.
   J.   To accept gifts of real property, personal property or mixed property
and devises and bequests, including trust funds; to take the title to said
property in the name of the library; to execute deeds and bills of sale for the
conveyance of said property and to expend the funds received by them from such
gifts for the improvement of the library.
   K.   To keep a record of its proceedings.
   L.   To enforce the performance of conditions on gifts, donations, devises
and bequests accepted by the city by action against the city council.
   M.   To have authority to make agreements with local county historical
associations where such exists and to set apart the necessary room and to care
for such articles as may come into the possession of the association. The
trustees are further authorized to purchase necessary receptacles and materials
for the preservation and protection of such articles as are in their judgment
of a historical and educational nature and pay for the same out of funds
allocated for library purposes.
   N.   To lease a portion of the library for the operation of a coffee shop
upon such terms and conditions as the board shall deem appropriate, provided no
such lease may extend beyond three (3) years without public hearing and council
approval as provided by law. (2008 Code § 2-67)
2-7-5: CONTRACTS:
   A.   Generally: The board may contract with any other boards of trustees of
free public libraries and other city, school, corporation, private or
semiprivate organization, institution of higher learning, township or county or
with the trustees of any county library district for the use of the library by
their respective residents.
   B.   Termination: Such a contract may be terminated at any time by mutual
consent of the contracting parties. It also may be terminated by a majority
vote of the electors represented by either of the contracting parties. Such a
termination proposition shall be submitted to the electors by the governing
body of a contracting party on a written petition of not less than five percent
(5%) in number of the electors who voted for governor in the territory of the
party at the last general election. The petition must be presented to the
governing body not less than forty (40) days before the election. The
proposition may be submitted at any election provided by law that is held in
the territory of the party who is seeking to terminate the contract. (2008 Code
§ 2-68)
2-7-6: AUTHORIZING NONRESIDENT USE OF LIBRARY:
The board may authorize the use of the library by nonresidents in any one or
more of the following ways by:
   A.   Lending the books or other materials of the library to nonresidents on
the same terms and conditions as to residents of the city or upon payment of a
special nonresident library fee.
   B.   Establishing depositories of library books or other materials to be
loaned to nonresidents.
   C.   Establishing bookmobiles or a traveling library so that other library
materials may be loaned to nonresidents.
   D.   Establishing branch libraries for lending books or other library
materials to nonresidents. (2008 Code § 2-69)
2-7-7: LIBRARY ACCOUNT:
All monies appropriated by the council from the general fund for the operation
and maintenance of the library shall be set aside in an account for the
library. Expenditures shall be paid for only on orders of the board signed by
its president and secretary. The authorized official to sign purchase orders is
the library director. (2008 Code § 2-70)
2-7-8: ANNUAL REPORT:
The board shall make a report to the city council immediately after the close
of the municipal fiscal year. This report shall contain statements of the
condition of the library, the number of books added thereto, the number
circulated, the amount of fines collected and the amount of money expended in
the maintenance of the library during the year together with such further
information required by the council. (2008 Code § 2-71)
2-7-9: UNAUTHORIZED RETENTION OF LIBRARY MATERIALS; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Library Materials Defined: "Library materials" shall be defined as any
material offered by the library for the use of the public off the premises of
the library.
   B.   Prohibited Act: Any person who removes or retains library materials
beyond the date of required return shall be guilty of unauthorized retention of
library materials and may be prosecuted by municipal infraction.
   C.   Enforcement: The library director or the director's designee shall be
charged with the enforcement of this section. (2008 Code § 2-72)
CHAPTER 8
PARK AND RECREATION BOARD
SECTION:
2-8-1: Advisory Board Created; Function
2-8-2: Appointments; Qualifications
2-8-3: Duties And Responsibilities
2-8-4: Compensation
2-8-5: Director Of Parks And Recreation
2-8-6: Supervision Of City Employees
2-8-1: ADVISORY BOARD CREATED; FUNCTION:
A parks and recreation board is hereby created to advise the council and
director of parks and recreation on the needed facilities to provide open space
such as parks, playgrounds, and community facilities, or other forms of
recreation. It shall also advise the council and director of parks and
recreation of city programs and encourage other programs, for the leisure time
of the city's residents of all ages. The parks and recreation board shall meet
on no less than a quarterly basis. (Ord. 04-21, 3-16-2021)
2-8-2: APPOINTMENTS; QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Terms: The board shall consist of no more than ten (10) board members,
all at least eighteen (18) years old and citizens of the city, whose terms of
office shall be three (3) years in duration commencing July 1. Appointments
shall be made, as near as possible, to stagger the terms. Appointments made to
fill a vacancy shall be for the balance of the term. Appointments made upon the
commencement of board may be made for shorter terms and on such commencement
date as the mayor determines.
   B.   Appointment: The board shall be appointed by the mayor, with
ratification by council. (Ord. 04-21, 3-16-2021)
2-8-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
In furtherance of the purpose set forth in City Code §
2-8-1, the board shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
   A.   To meet and organize the selection of one of their members to serve as
president and such other officers as the board shall deem appropriate.
   B.   To establish its rules of procedure, time and place of meeting, and
votes required, so long as such rules do not violate municipal or state code
requirements.
   C.   To establish policies concerning hours of operation and classes
provided, presented consistent with budgeted amounts, and to establish such
other policies and make such recommendations to the council and the director of
parks and recreation as appropriate to fulfill the purpose of City Code §
2-8-1.
   D.   To work with and support the department and other city officials in the
promotion of parks and recreation.
   E.   To accept on behalf of the city gifts or items deemed appropriate for
use by parks and recreation, funds given to the department, establish long
range strategic directives for the department and work toward their
achievement.
   F.   To recommend to the mayor the appointment of persons to serve on the
board.
   G.   To establish such committees or task forces as will assist the board in
implementing the above duties. (Ord. 04-21, 3-16-2021)
2-8-4: COMPENSATION:
Members of the board shall serve without compensation. (Ord. 04-21, 3-16-2021)
2-8-5: DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION:
The director of parks and recreation shall serve as the department head for the
parks and recreation department. (Ord. 04-21, 3-16-2021)
2-8-6: SUPERVISION OF CITY EMPLOYEES:
The director of parks and recreation shall serve as the department head for the
parks and recreation department. Day to day supervision of parks and recreation
employees shall be by the director of parks and recreation, who shall report to
and be subject to the city administrator. All matters regarding hiring,
discipline, and discharge of parks and recreation employees shall be handled by
the city administrator in concert with the director of parks and recreation
and, as appropriate, the city attorney. The role of the director of parks and
recreation may be assumed by the director of Culture and Recreation, a position
combining the director of the Family Museum of Arts and Sciences at the
Learning Campus and the director of parks and recreation, as the city
administrator may decide, in consultation with the city council. References in
the City Code to the director of parks and recreation shall operate to pertain
to the director of Culture and Recreation in those circumstances that a
director of Culture and Recreation is in place. (Ord. 17-21, 10-19-2021)
CHAPTER 9
TREE COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-9-1: Committee Created; Term
2-9-2: Duties
2-9-3: Finances; Compensation
2-9-1: COMMITTEE CREATED; TERM:
There is hereby created a tree committee, consisting of five (5) members
appointed by the mayor, who shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor. (2008
Code § 2-81; amd. 2015 Code; Ord. 05-21, 3-16-2021)
2-9-2: DUTIES:
   A.   The committee shall:
      1.   Study, investigate and develop a plan for the care, preservation,
trimming, planting, removal or disposition of trees in public areas.
      2.   Strive to promote and educate the residents of the city on the value
and care of public trees.
      3.   Respond to any questions posed of it by the city council within the
scope of its work.
   B.   The committee may:
      1.   Recommend to the city council the implementation of the plan
described herein.
      2.   Pursue grants or other sources of funding to enhance tree planting
and maintenance within the public way. (2008 Code § 2-81; amd. 2015 Code; Ord.
05-21, 3-16-2021)
2-9-3: FINANCES; COMPENSATION:
No budget allocation shall be made for the committee; no compensation shall be
paid any committee member for service thereon. No grants received by the
committee may be expended except upon approval of the city council. (2008 Code
§ 2-81; amd. 2015 Code; Ord. 05-21, 3-16-2021)
CHAPTER 10
URBAN DEER HUNTING ADVISORY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-10-1: Membership; Terms; Qualifications
2-10-2: Duties
2-10-1: MEMBERSHIP; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Committee Created; Compensation: There is hereby established a
Bettendorf urban deer hunting advisory committee composed of eleven (11)
members who shall serve without compensation.
   B.   Terms: The members of the committee shall serve for a three (3) year
term. For purposes of staggering terms under this chapter, upon initial
appointment, three (3) members shall serve for one year, four (4) members shall
serve for two (2) years, and four (4) members shall serve for three (3) years.
   C.   Appointment; Qualifications: Members shall be appointed by the mayor
and approved by the council. Members should have background or experience in
urban deer hunting and/or have an interest in working with the mayor and city
council and police department in reviewing the city urban deer hunting policies
to make them as safe and efficient as possible. (2008 Code § 2-84)
2-10-2: DUTIES:
Members shall:
   A.   Assist in gathering urban deer hunting policies from other municipal
jurisdictions.
   B.   Evaluate current ordinances and make recommendations to the mayor and
city council concerning urban deer hunting in the city.
   C.   Perform such other duties as the mayor and city council shall direct as
it relates to urban deer hunting within the city. (2008 Code § 2-84)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSES GENERALLY
SECTION:
3-1-1: Licensing Requirements; Fees
3-1-2: Application For License; Payment Of Fee
3-1-3: Required Signatures
3-1-4: Display Of License
3-1-5: Bonds Or Insurance In Conjunction With License
3-1-6: Inspection
3-1-7: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-1-1: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; FEES:
   A.   Generally: Businesses regulated by this title shall be required to be
licensed prior to operation. All licensed businesses shall be required to
follow the mandates of this code. (2008 Code § 16-1)
   B.   License Required For Sales Of Goods, Wares Or Merchandise; Fees:
      1.   Unless otherwise regulated by the state or municipal code, all
retail and wholesale businesses within the city which sell goods, wares, or
merchandise shall obtain a license therefor. No business shall be required to
obtain both a retail business and transient merchant license.
      2.   The fee for such license shall be:
         a.   Seventy five dollars ($75.00) for businesses occupying up to four
thousand (4,000) square feet of space.
         b.   One hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) for businesses
occupying four thousand one (4,001) to nine thousand (9,000) square feet of
space.
         c.   One hundred seventy five dollars ($175.00) for businesses
occupying nine thousand one (9,001) to fourteen thousand (14,000) square feet
of space. (2008 Code § 16-3)
         d.   Two hundred twenty five dollars ($225.00) for businesses
occupying fourteen thousand one (14,001) square feet or more of space. (2008
Code § 16-3; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   Term Of License:
      1.   Unless otherwise stated on the license, a license shall be issued
effective on the date of issuance through June 30. License renewals shall be
effective from July 1 through June 30. (2008 Code § 16-2)
      2.   New licenses issued on dates other than July 1 shall be prorated.
(2008 Code § 16-2; amd. 2015 Code)
   D.   License Nontransferable: No license shall be transferred to any other
business or individual. (2008 Code § 16-13)
   E.   Additional License For Entertainment Machines: Any business operating
or allowing to be operated within its premises any of the following: electronic
video games, electronic pinball machines, pinball machines, pool tables,
jukeboxes, or other similar devices, shall obtain an additional license for
each such machine, and the cost of such license shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00) for each machine. The license shall run concurrent with the business
license. (2008 Code § 16-4; amd. 2015 Code)
3-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; PAYMENT OF FEE:
   A.   Application: All requests for licenses shall be on the form as
established by the city clerk. Copies of the application form shall be
available at the office of the city clerk and the office of the code
enforcement officer at the city hall annex. Applications shall be received at
the office of the code enforcement officer only. (2008 Code § 16-9)
   B.   Payment Of Fee: The required license fee shall be paid at the time of
application. (2008 Code § 16-10)
3-1-3: REQUIRED SIGNATURES:
Whenever approval of a specific city employee or state official is required
prior to issuance of a license, the applicant shall secure such approval prior
to filing the application. (2008 Code § 16-11)
3-1-4: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
   A.   Displayed Or Carried: Upon issuance, the city license shall be
displayed at a conspicuous location within the business licensed. If the
license is to an individual for regulated conduct, such license shall be
carried with the person at all times when the regulated conduct is being
performed.
   B.   Display To Police Or City Official Upon Request: The license shall be
displayed to any police officer or code enforcement officer upon request. (2008
Code § 16-12)
3-1-5: BONDS OR INSURANCE IN CONJUNCTION WITH LICENSE:
Whenever a bond or insurance is required in conjunction with a license, such
bond or insurance shall be issued by an entity licensed to do business within
the state of Iowa, and shall be on a form as provided with the application, and
attached to the application at the time of filing. (2008 Code § 16-14)
3-1-6: INSPECTION:
The code enforcement officer shall be granted entry to any premises licensed or
regulated under this title to inspect to verify compliance with this code.
(2008 Code § 16-16)
3-1-7: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Reasons For Denial, Suspension Or Revocation: A license may be denied,
suspended, or revoked by the issuing authority for any of the following
reasons:
      1.   Failure to qualify for the license.
      2.   Failure to continuously comply with all the conditions required as a
precedent for approval of the license.
      3.   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement contained in the
application.
      4.   Expiration or cancellation of any bond or insurance required.
      5.   Refusal to comply with requests by the code enforcement officer to
inspect the licensed premises.
      6.   Conducting actions beyond that authorized by the granting of the
license.
      7.   Violation of any regulation or provision of this code applicable to
the activity for which the license has been granted.
      8.   Conducting the licensed activity in a manner which constitutes a
danger or harm to the health, safety or welfare of the public, or constitutes a
breach of the peace.
   B.   Right Of Appeal: Any person aggrieved by the action of the issuing
authority in denying, suspending, or revoking a license shall have the
following rights of appeal:
      1.   Within five (5) days, the person aggrieved may file a written appeal
to the city administrator. The city administrator shall, within five (5) days,
schedule a hearing, take whatever evidence or information is presented, and
shall, within two (2) days thereafter, decide to affirm or reverse the decision
of the issuing authority. If the decision is to reverse, the administrator
shall have full power to increase, modify, or revoke the sanction.
      2.   If the person is still aggrieved, further appeal shall be requested
in writing within five (5) days. Such appeal shall be heard by the city council
at its next regularly scheduled meeting. Upon hearing such evidence or
information as shall be produced, the council shall decide whether to affirm,
modify, or reverse the decision of the administrator. No further appeal shall
be granted. (2008 Code § 16-15)
CHAPTER 2
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Amusement Parks
3-2-2: Carnivals And Circuses
3-2-3: Inspection
3-2-4: Revocation Of License
3-2-1: AMUSEMENT PARKS:
No person shall operate an amusement park within the city without first
obtaining a license therefor. The fee for such park shall be two hundred
dollars ($200.00) per year, valid from July 1 to June 30. (2008 Code § 3-1)
3-2-2: CARNIVALS AND CIRCUSES:
   A.   Carnivals: No person shall operate a carnival within the city without
first obtaining a license therefor. The fee for such carnival shall be two
hundred dollars ($200.00) per year, valid from July 1 to June 30, or fifty
dollars ($50.00) per calendar week, whichever the applicant chooses. (2008 Code
§ 3-2)
   B.   Circuses: No person shall operate a circus within the city without
first obtaining a license therefor. The fee for such circus shall be two
hundred dollars ($200.00) per year, valid from July 1 to June 30, or fifty
dollars ($50.00) per calendar week, whichever the applicant chooses. (2008 Code
§ 3-3)
3-2-3: INSPECTION:
By applying for and receiving a license under this chapter, the operator of an
amusement park, carnival or circus agrees to follow all fire, building, zoning,
sanitation and health codes applicable within the city and to permit inspection
of the amusement by the police or building inspectors to verify compliance.
(2008 Code § 3-4)
3-2-4: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
When, in the opinion of the appropriate code enforcement official, the
operation of the amusement constitutes an immediate threat to any individual's
health or safety, the license of the amusement shall be revoked, and the
amusement shall cease to operate. The decision of the official may be appealed
to the city council, which may affirm, rescind, or modify that decision. (2008
Code § 3-5)
CHAPTER 3
HOTELS, MOTELS AND BED AND BREAKFASTS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: License Required; Fee
3-3-3: Hotel/Motel Tax
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Hotels, motels, boarding houses, and bed and breakfast inns shall be as defined
in section
11-1-6 of this code. (2008 Code § 16-41)
3-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
The fee for a license required by this chapter shall be as follows:
   A.   Rental of one to ten (10) rooms per facility: Fifty dollars ($50.00)
per year.
   B.   Rental of eleven (11) to fifty (50) rooms per facility: One hundred
dollars ($100.00) per year.
   C.   Rental of fifty one (51) to one hundred (100) rooms per facility: One
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per year.
   D.   Rental of more than one hundred (100) rooms per facility: Two hundred
dollars ($200.00) per year. (2008 Code § 16-42)
3-3-3: HOTEL/MOTEL TAX:
   A.   The hotel/motel tax, authorized by Iowa Code chapter 423A, and as
approved by the voters on November, 1991, is established at seven percent (7%)
of the gross receipts from the rental of sleeping quarters in a hotel, motel,
inn, public lodging houses, rooming house, mobile home, tourist court, or in
any place where sleeping accommodations are furnished to transient guests for
rent. (2008 Code § 16-43; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Such tax shall become effective January 1, 1992, and shall not be
changed without an election and majority vote in favor thereof.
   C.   The tax shall not be collected on rentals of rooms when such rental is
to the same person for a period of thirty (30) or more consecutive days.
   D.   The tax shall be collected in the manner required by law. (2008 Code §
16-43)
CHAPTER 4
SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required
3-4-3: Display Of License
3-4-4: Sales Regulations
3-4-5: Fixed Location Transient Merchants
3-4-6: Application For License
3-4-7: Issuance Of License
3-4-8: Fees
3-4-9: Bond Required
3-4-10: Duplicate Licenses
3-4-11: Charitable And Nonprofit Organizations
3-4-12: Blanket Licenses
3-4-13: Activities Not Subject To Transient Merchant Licensing
3-4-14: Door To Door Solicitors
3-4-15: Denial Or Revocation Of License; Procedure
3-4-16: Penalty
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to the interpretation of this chapter:
CITY: The city of Bettendorf, Iowa.
PERSON: An individual person, firm, corporation, partnership or association.
RESIDENCE: Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by one
or more persons contained within any type of building or structure.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT:
   A.   Any person intending to remain in business in the city for less than
one year who:
      1.   Offers for sale tangible personal property or personal services; or
      2.   Takes or attempts to take orders for the sale of tangible personal
property and services, including advertising or subscriptions, to be furnished
or performed in the future.
   B.   A transient merchant may operate from a fixed location, or may simply
go door to door. (2008 Code § 21-2)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a transient
merchant in the city without first obtaining a license as herein provided. Each
employee, agent or subcontractor of a transient merchant shall be licensed.
(2008 Code § 21-3)
3-4-3: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Each transient merchant shall at all times while doing business in the city
keep in the possession of such person the license required by this chapter and
shall, upon request, display the license as evidence of compliance with the
requirements of this chapter. (2008 Code § 21-4)
3-4-4: SALES REGULATIONS:
   A.   Use Of Public Property; Special Authorization: No person shall engage
in activities regulated under this chapter on public property without first
procuring special authorization from the city council.
   B.   Sound Devices: No person shall shout or use any sound device upon any
of the public places of the city or upon any private premises in said city
where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom violates any
noise ordinance of the city.
   C.   Defiance Of Notice Indicating Peddlers Or Solicitors Not Welcome: No
person shall engage in business as a transient merchant in defiance of any
notice exhibited at a residence or business indicating that peddlers or
solicitors are not welcome or not invited.
   D.   Hours Restricted: No person shall engage in the activities regulated
under this chapter from door to door prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after
nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. Monday through Saturday, at any time on a Sunday, or
on a state or national holiday.
   E.   Intimidation Or Coercion: No person shall continue to remain on
another's private property in an attempt to intimidate or coerce a sale after
being told that the seller's merchandise was not wanted or after being told to
leave. (2008 Code § 21-5)
3-4-5: FIXED LOCATION TRANSIENT MERCHANTS:
   A.   Written Permission Required: No transient merchant shall engage in
business at a fixed location without the written permission, by lease or
otherwise, of the owner or person in control of the property. This written
agreement shall be signed by the parties and shall include the dates the
transient shall be conducting business. This agreement shall be displayed by
the transient merchant at such fixed location when he is doing business there.
   B.   Off Street Parking: A transient merchant doing business at a fixed
location shall provide sufficient off street parking spaces for all employees
and customers.
   C.   Display Of Personal Property; Signs: Any display of tangible personal
property, or signs or advertisements therefor, shall comply with the
appropriate sections of this code.
   D.   Bathroom Facilities: The owner or person in control of the property
shall furnish bathroom facilities for the use of the transient merchant. (2008
Code § 21-6)
3-4-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for a transient merchant license shall give the following
information:
   A.   The name of the person having the management or supervision of
applicant's business during the time that it is proposed it will be carried on
in the city; the local address of such person while engaged in such business.
   B.   The permanent address of each person working for the merchant; whether
such person will act as proprietor, agent, consignee or employee, the name and
address of the person, firm or corporation for whose account the business will
be carried on, if any; and if a corporation, under the laws of what state the
same is incorporated.
   C.   The place or places in the city where it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business and the length of time during which it is proposed that
said business shall be conducted.
   D.   The place or places other than the permanent place of business of the
applicant, where applicant within three (3) years next preceding the date of
said application conducted a transient business, stating the nature thereof and
giving the post office box number and street address of any building or office
in which said business was conducted.
   E.   A statement of the nature and character of the tangible personal
property or service to be sold or offered for sale by the applicant in the
city; whether the goods are new, damaged or rejects; whether the same are
proposed to be sold from stock in possession or by sample, or at auction or by
direct sale or by taking orders for future delivery; where the goods or
property proposed to be sold are manufactured or produced and where such goods
or products are located at the time said application is filed.
   F.   Whether or not any person having management or supervision of the
applicant's business has been convicted of a felony within the five (5) years
immediately preceding the date of said application or of the violation of any
law or ordinance relating to the same or similar business to be conducted by
the applicant, the nature of such offense and the punishment therefor.
   G.   Whether the applicant has ever applied for a license under this
chapter, which has been denied.
   H.   Whether the applicant has ever held a license under this chapter, which
has been revoked.
   I.   A copy of the acknowledgment from the Iowa secretary of state regarding
the bond required in section
3-4-9 of this chapter. (2008 Code § 21-7)
3-4-7: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   The police department or the city clerk's office shall accept the
application. The police department shall investigate whether the information is
complete and accurate.
   B.   Licenses or the denials thereof shall be issued within ten (10) days
from the completion of the investigation, and payment of the licensing fee.
   C.   Licenses shall not be transferable.
   D.   There shall be no refund of the license fee. (2008 Code § 21-8)
3-4-8: FEES:
Before a license shall be issued, the applicant shall pay a license fee
according to the following schedule:
   A.   Blanket license for a fixed location:
      1.   Single event blanket license (such as a "starving artists" event):
Seventy five dollars ($75.00).
      2.   Blanket annual license: Five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   B.   Transient merchant's license (door to door):
      1.   For one day: Fifteen dollars ($15.00); for each additional day: Five
dollars ($5.00).
      2.   For one month: Seventy five dollars ($75.00).
      3.   For six (6) months: One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
      4.   For one year: Three hundred dollars ($300.00).
   C.   Duplicate license: Five dollars ($5.00). (2008 Code § 21-9)
3-4-9: BOND REQUIRED 1 :
Except as provided in this chapter, before any license under this chapter shall
be issued, each applicant for a transient merchant license or a blanket license
shall file with the city clerk an acknowledgment from the Iowa secretary of
state that the bond required of all transient merchants operating anywhere
within the state has been filed and will remain valid through the time the
merchant is operating within the city. (2008 Code § 21-10)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 9C.4.
3-4-10: DUPLICATE LICENSES:
When a transient merchant or any other person required to be licensed by this
chapter loses the license, no further activity may occur until a duplicate
license has been secured. The fee for the duplicate license shall be as
established in subsection
3-4-8C of this chapter. (2008 Code § 21-11)
3-4-11: CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS:
   A.   License; No Fee:
      1.   A religious, charitable, patriotic, social service, civic, or
political nonprofit organization shall receive a license for activities
regulated under this chapter where its authorized representatives undertake
such activities without remuneration and where the entire proceeds of the
activities will go to the organization and not for private profit. The
organization shall file the information required for a transient merchant
license.
      2.   The clerk shall issue, free of charge, a license for the requested
activity. The license shall be valid for a period of one year, and may be
renewed on or before the expiration date.
   B.   Waiver Of Fee; Proof Of Federal Recognition: If the merchant pays any
of its personnel for conducting the merchant activity, then the fee shall be
waived only upon a showing that the federal internal revenue service has
recognized the merchant as a 501(c)(3) (or similar section of the internal
revenue code) corporation. (2008 Code § 21-12)
3-4-12: BLANKET LICENSES:
   A.   Conditions For Obtaining Blanket Annual License: The owner or person in
control of any real property located in the city, upon which a permanent
business and building is located, who conducts events regulated and required to
be licensed under this chapter, or who leases the premises to transient
merchants for such regulated events, may procure a blanket annual license, and
the individuals conducting the various concessions there will not be required
to obtain individual licenses, under the following conditions:
      1.   The owner or person in control of such real property shall be
required to submit in writing to the city clerk, on forms provided by the
clerk, the locations of the premises upon which such activities are to be
conducted, the names and addresses of the officers and directors or other
governing body of the owner of the premises, and the name, permanent address
and business address of the person in charge of managing such property. Said
person shall also sign a statement that, in the event the license is granted,
he will comply with all the provisions of this chapter and that he guarantees
that the transient merchant leasing property from him shall also comply with
all the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   The licensee shall make the provisions of this chapter a part of any
agreement for the use of the premises for any purpose to which the provisions
of this chapter are applicable.
      3.   It shall be the responsibility of the licensee not to permit any
person to operate or conduct a business on the premises as a transient merchant
who is not entitled to conduct such business under the blanket license.
   B.   Single Event Blanket License:
      1.   Any person conducting or sponsoring an activity in subsection A of
this section may secure a single event blanket license for the same uses and
purposes and on the same terms and conditions as the annual blanket license.
      2.   No event authorized under a single event blanket license shall
continue for more than fourteen (14) consecutive days. (2008 Code § 21-13)
3-4-13: ACTIVITIES NOT SUBJECT TO TRANSIENT MERCHANT LICENSING:
Persons engaged in the following described activities are exempt from the duty
of applying for a transient merchant license:
   A.   Persons selling at wholesale to merchants for the purpose of resale.
   B.   Persons selling or distributing newspapers.
   C.   Persons selling tangible personal property or services to business
enterprises.
   D.   Persons who sell, at their permanent residence in the city, works of
art or craft made or created by such person or a member of such person's
immediate family.
   E.   Persons licensed by the state to sell real estate or insurance or
licensed as transient vendors of drugs.
   F.   Persons selling or distributing livestock feeds as defined by the laws
of the state.
   G.   Persons selling or delivering tangible personal property or services
through a permanent business licensed through the city.
   H.   Persons selling at events for which a blanket license has been
obtained.
   I.   Persons selling or distributing fresh fruit or vegetables cultivated by
such person.
   J.   Persons selling tangible personal property at a garage, basement or
yard sale held at one of the person's premises; however, such activities may be
regulated and shall comply with any zoning restrictions.
   K.   Persons conducting and selling admissions to or for theatricals, shows,
rides, sports and games, concerts, circuses, carnivals or any other public
amusement where no sales of other products are involved and such sales are made
on the premises where the event is to be conducted.
   L.   Persons selling food and beverages at a food service establishment
regulated pursuant to the Iowa Code. (2008 Code § 21-14)
3-4-14: DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITORS:
   A.   License Not Required: Any person who goes door to door soliciting funds
for a nonprofit corporation or religious, charitable, patriotic, social
service, civil or political party shall not be licensed.
   B.   Registration Upon Request: Such person may request registration with
the city to enable response to citizen inquiry, but this is not required. (2008
Code § 16-96)
3-4-15: DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Denial Of License: The city administrator may deny, within ten (10)
days, a license to any applicant who has:
      1.   Held a license under this chapter that has been revoked within two
(2) years of the date of the present application.
      2.   Failed to make a complete application.
      3.   During the past two (2) years, a history of:
         a.   Fraudulent applications for similar licenses;
         b.   Misrepresentation of the quality of merchandise or services
offered for sale;
         c.   Crimes involving personal injury.
   B.   Revocation Of License: The city administrator or designee may revoke
any license issued under the provisions of this chapter by sending a notice of
revocation by certified mail to the license holder at the last known address or
by personal service on the license holder, or any licensed person acting on
behalf of the license holder for any of the following causes:
      1.   Information showing that the license was erroneously issued.
      2.   For any violation of the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   For any violation of any city or state law regulating the sales
activities of the license holder.
   C.   Request For Hearing:
      1.   The license shall stand denied or revoked unless, within five (5)
days after denial or receipt of the notice of revocation from the city
administrator, the license applicant or holder files a written request for a
public hearing on the city administrator's action.
      2.   Public hearing shall be conducted before the city council which
shall decide whether a license should be denied, reinstated or revoked, as the
case may be.
      3.   The city council may order the license issued or reinstated either
conditionally or unconditionally or revoke the license.
      4.   Ten (10) days' notice of the time and place of the public hearing
shall be given to the license holder who shall have an opportunity to appear
before the council and present any evidence or arguments he may have as to why
the action taken by the city administrator should not be approved by the city
council. (2008 Code § 21-15)
3-4-16: PENALTY:
Anyone violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each sale or solicitation of a sale made without a license
of bond in violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense. (2008
Code § 21-16; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 5
AUCTIONS AND AUCTIONEERS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Auctioneer's License; Fee And Bond
3-5-2: Auction Permit; Fee
3-5-3: Restrictions On Sale
3-5-1: AUCTIONEER'S LICENSE; FEE AND BOND:
   A.   License Required: Any person desiring to perform auctioneering within
the city shall first receive a license therefor.
   B.   Fee: The fee for such license shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00)
per year.
   C.   Bond: A bond in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall
be provided with the application to guarantee compliance with this chapter.
Such bond shall be for the benefit of the city and any party damaged by virtue
of an auctioneer's noncompliance with this code. (2008 Code § 16-21)
3-5-2: AUCTION PERMIT; FEE:
   A.   Permit Required: No auctioneer shall sell any property, real, personal,
or mixed, by auction in the city until a permit is received therefor.
   B.   Fee: Fee for such permit shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per day of
auction.
   C.   Application For Permit: The application for permit shall include a
general description of property to be sold, and the time, date, and place of
the auction. (2008 Code § 16-22)
3-5-3: RESTRICTIONS ON SALE:
   A.   No auction shall be conducted in a manner which will cause streets or
sidewalks to be blocked.
   B.   No person shall, in the conduct of an auction, violate the noise
restriction ordinance.
   C.   No person shall act as a "capper", "booster" or "shill", bidding only
to increase the prices obtained without intending to purchase the merchandise
offered.
   D.   No advertisement for an auction shall be made which makes untrue or
deceptive statements.
   E.   No auction shall be conducted from nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. to eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M.
   F.   No person shall exhibit and sell an item at auction, only to attempt to
convince the purchaser to take a substitute item. (2008 Code § 16-23)
CHAPTER 6
CLOSING OUT OR GOING OUT OF BUSINESS SALES
SECTION:
3-6-1: Sale Defined
3-6-2: License Required; Fee
3-6-3: Application For License
3-6-4: Restrictions On Sale
3-6-5: Revocation Of License
3-6-1: SALE DEFINED:
   A.   "Closing out or going out of business sales" shall be defined as
including any sale in which the public is led to believe that the sale will
include goods damaged by fire, smoke, water, or other means regardless of
whether the business intends to cease operation; that goods offered are offered
to dispose of such inventory prior to the close or cessation of business; or
any of the following types of sales: adjuster, adjustment, assignee, bankrupt,
benefit of creditors, benefit of trustee, loss of lease, forced out of
business, quitting business, or liquidation. It shall also include sales by a
person or business which is closing one of multiple sales locations within the
city.
   B.   Such sales as described in subsection A of this section shall not be
deemed to include sales by the sheriff, by an executor or guardian, or by any
party pursuant to a court order. (2008 Code § 16-36)
3-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
No person shall hold a closing out or going out of business sale without first
obtaining a license therefor. The fee for such license shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per day. (2008 Code § 16-37)
3-6-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The application for the license required by this chapter shall contain the
following information:
   A.   The name of the owner of the goods.
   B.   A description of the place where the goods are to be sold.
   C.   The dates on which the sale is to be held.
   D.   A statement of the reason for the sale.
   E.   A complete and detailed inventory of the goods to be sold. (2008 Code §
16-38)
3-6-4: RESTRICTIONS ON SALE:
   A.   No sale as licensed herein shall be for more than sixty (60)
consecutive days. A license having been given once to any business shall not be
renewed.
   B.   No merchandise may be sold at such sale except as is listed on the
inventory.
   C.   No sale or offer of sale shall include the use of deceit, fraud, or
misrepresentation in either such sale or advertising for such sale.
   D.   No business shall qualify for a going out of business license until
such business has existed for at least one hundred twenty (120) consecutive
calendar days. (2008 Code § 16-39)
3-6-5: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Upon discovery of a violation of this chapter, the code enforcement official
shall revoke the license issued. Appeal shall be as described in section
3-1-7 of this title. (2008 Code § 16-40)
CHAPTER 7
PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND GOODS DEALERS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: License Required; Fee
3-7-3: Exclusions
3-7-4: Record Of Transactions
3-7-5: Purchases From Minors
3-7-6: Time Merchandise Held Prior To Sale
3-7-7: Altered Serial Numbers
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ESTABLISHED DEALER: Any person who has engaged in any occupation regulated
under this chapter for more than thirty (30) consecutive days at a fixed
location in Bettendorf, Iowa.
ITINERANT DEALER: Any person who engages in any occupation regulated under this
chapter who is not an established dealer.
PAWNBROKER: Any person engaged in the business of buying tangible personal
property for which a record of transaction is required to be filed, whether
said purchase is subject to the seller's right of repurchase or redemption or
not; or a person engaged in the business of receiving actual possession of
tangible personal property for which a record of transaction is required to be
filed as security for loans with or without a mortgage, lien, or bill of sale.
SECONDHAND DEALER: Any person engaged in the business of buying or selling
secondhand goods.
SECONDHAND GOODS: Tangible personal property previously owned by another
person, whether used or not, which property, in its present state, possesses
utility for the purpose for which it was originally intended. This definition
shall include gold, silver, copper, or platinum articles to include any coins,
jewelry, or gems bought for resale, meltdown or scrap.
TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall be deemed to include, but not limited to:
   A.   Items made in whole or in part of gold, silver, platinum, copper or
other precious metal;
   B.   A collection of one or more coins or bills of currency;
   C.   Items containing or consisting of precious or semiprecious gemstones or
other polished stones used for decoration or jewelry;
   D.   Articles with serial numbers, model numbers or identifying marks,
including, but not limited to, appliances, tools, radios, stereo equipment,
radar detectors, televisions, cellular phones, video recorders, camcorders,
video equipment, computers, computer equipment and accessories, digital music
recorders and players, video game equipment and accessories, cameras, but not
including washers, dryers, refrigerators and auto parts;
   E.   Musical instruments;
   F.   Rifles, shotguns, firearms, and handguns;
   G.   Movie cassette tapes and disks, digital video disks (DVDs), music
cassette tapes, compact discs, record albums, computer software and diskettes,
and video game cartridges.
The pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer must specify the identity of all
items pawned or sold under this chapter. (2008 Code § 16-76)
3-7-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
No person shall operate as a pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer without
first obtaining a license therefor. The annual fee for such license shall be
one hundred dollars ($100.00). (2008 Code § 16-77)
3-7-3: EXCLUSIONS:
The following activities shall not apply to the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Collecting/selling by nonprofit corporations, including, but not
limited to, Salvation Army and Goodwill Industries.
   B.   Auctions by licensed auctioneers.
   C.   Single day or limited events such as flea markets or garage sales.
   D.   Fairs, conventions, and hobby shows.
   E.   Wholesaling or dealer to dealer sales of merchandise. (2008 Code § 16-
78)
3-7-4: RECORD OF TRANSACTIONS:
   A.   Report Required: Every pawnbroker, secondhand dealer, established
dealer or itinerant dealer shall report each transaction to the designated
internet based property tracking service at the end of each business day to
include an accurate and detailed account of the sale, purchase, pawn, trade in,
or exchange of tangible personal property.
   B.   Description Of Transactions:
      1.   The record of each transaction shall be entered and maintained using
the designated internet based property tracking service required by the police
department and shall include a complete, detailed, and accurate description of
each article pawned, purchased, traded in, or exchanged including serial
numbers and model numbers; a transcription of any engraving or other
identifying labels, markings, or writings located on the item; brand name and
model number of each item if applicable; the titles of all movie cassette tapes
or DVD disks; the title and artist name of all musical cassette tapes, albums,
or compact discs; the number and description of any decorative precious or
semiprecious gems, stones, or jewelry; the brand name and title of any and all
video game cartridge; the brand name and title of any and all computer
software; and the price paid to the customer for each item.
      2.   The record of each transaction shall be uploaded into the designated
internet based property tracking service by the end of each business day.
   C.   Digital Photograph Of Property And Customer:
      1.   Digital photographs shall be taken of each transaction to include:
an overall photograph of the item, a photograph depicting the serial and model
number of each item if applicable, a photograph depicting any identifiable
marks or engravings on the item if applicable. U.S./foreign coin and/or
currency would be excluded from the digital photograph transaction requirement.
      2.   A current state issued photographic identification card or driver's
license shall be scanned or photographed and uploaded to the designated
internet based property tracking service for each transaction thereafter.
      3.   All digital photographs must be clear and recognizable of the
property and customer.
      4.   All digital photographs shall be uploaded to the internet based
property tracking service designated by the police department by the end of
each business day.
   D.   Customer And Dealer Information Required:
      1.   The record of each transaction shall include the date and time of
the transaction, a description of the customer selling, pawning, trading in, or
exchanging tangible personal property, which description shall include the
person's first and last name, address, date of birth (month/day/year), sex,
driver's license or state issued identification number to include the state,
approximate height and weight, and other distinguishing characteristics (scars,
tattoos, birthmarks, known physical limitations).
      2.   The dealer or employee involved in the transaction shall be
identified for each item listed on the record of transaction. No such entry
shall be erased, obliterated, or deleted in any manner. A separate record of
transaction shall be completed for each transaction between the licensed
establishment and a particular customer for that specific date and time.
Transactions with a particular customer on the same date as a previous
transaction, but at a later time, shall be completed on a separate record of
transaction as if the earlier transaction had not occurred. Transactions
between licensed establishments located at different addresses shall be
recorded on the record of transaction in the same manner as any other required
recorded transaction.
   E.   Records Open To Inspection:
      1.   The record of transaction as well as each item of tangible personal
property pawned, pledged, or purchased shall, at all reasonable times, be open
to inspection upon demand by any sworn officer of any federal, state, county,
or city law enforcement agency in regard to a criminal investigation.
      2.   Each licensee shall keep, file and maintain copies of the record of
transactions to include the resale of property and buyer identification for at
least one year from the date of the transaction.
   F.   Internet Based Property Tracking Service: The current internet based
property tracking service designated by the Bettendorf police department is
LeadsOnline (leadsonline.com). (2008 Code § 16-80)
3-7-5: PURCHASES FROM MINORS:
No dealer under this chapter shall acquire any tangible personal property
described in section
3-7-1 of this chapter from a person under eighteen (18) years of age. (2008
Code § 16-81)
3-7-6: TIME MERCHANDISE HELD PRIOR TO SALE:
   A.   Time Period: No pawnbroker, secondhand goods dealer, established dealer
or itinerant dealer shall sell, melt, scrap, change, dispose of, transfer, or
alter in any manner any tangible personal property received in exchange, trade
in or purchase for a minimum period of ten (10) business days after the record
of transaction has been uploaded to the designated internet based property
tracking service. U.S./foreign coin and/or currency would be excluded from the
time requirement. Items received in pawn must be held for a minimum of ten (10)
business days after the date for repayment of the amount loaned has expired,
unless the property pawned is redeemed by the person who originally pawned it
within the agreed time limit with the licensee.
   B.   Tagging Articles: During the ten (10) day waiting period, the dealer
shall separate each day's acquisitions by tagging each article or placing each
article in a container such that the date of the acquisition of the article is
clearly indicated.
   C.   Suspicion Of Stolen Articles; Extension Of Time: In the event that the
chief of police or his designee has reasonable suspicion that an article
pawned, purchased or exchanged is stolen or that information furnished by the
customer is false, the retention period may be extended for an additional seven
(7) days. (2008 Code § 16-82)
3-7-7: ALTERED SERIAL NUMBERS:
No pawnbroker, secondhand dealer, established dealer or itinerant dealer shall
acquire any tangible personal property bearing evidence of a serial number
which has been tampered with, scratched or obliterated in any manner unless the
dealer informs the Bettendorf police department of such fact at the time of the
acquisition. (2008 Code § 16-83)
CHAPTER 8
JUNK DEALERS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: License Required; Fee
3-8-3: Record Book
3-8-4: Resale Of Junk
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
JUNK: Any article or material which, because of age, deterioration or use, has
lost its original utility or desirability but which, through alteration,
restoration, or salvage, may become an item of value.
JUNK DEALER: A person or business engaged in the collecting, storing, buying or
selling of junk. (2008 Code § 16-46)
3-8-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
No person or business shall operate as a junk dealer without receiving a
license therefor. The fee for such license shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) per
year. (2008 Code § 16-47)
3-8-3: RECORD BOOK:
Each junk dealer shall maintain a record book of items received, showing from
whom received, a description of the item including quantity and weight, and
amount paid. Such book shall be made available to a police officer or code
enforcement officer, upon request. (2008 Code § 16-48)
3-8-4: RESALE OF JUNK:
No junk shall be resold for forty eight (48) hours after acquisition. (2008
Code § 16-49)
CHAPTER 9
BILLPOSTERS
SECTION:
3-9-1: Billposter Defined
3-9-2: License Required; Fee
3-9-3: Posting Of Advertising Material
3-9-1: BILLPOSTER DEFINED:
A "billposter" shall be a person who engages in the business of distributing
advertising by posting, painting or otherwise. (2008 Code § 16-25)
3-9-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
Any person acting as a billposter shall apply for and receive a license
therefor. The fee for such license shall be ten dollars ($10.00) for each day
the person engages in billposting. (2008 Code § 16-26)
3-9-3: POSTING OF ADVERTISING MATERIAL:
   A.   Consent Required: No advertising material may be posted on private
property without the consent of the owner, or city property, including city
rights of way, without the consent of the council.
   B.   Placing On Vehicles: No advertising material may be placed on vehicles
standing in any street, alley, parking lot, or other public place. This
subsection shall not be deemed to prevent public officers from attaching
notices or other matters to vehicles pursuant to their duties.
   C.   Throwing On Streets, Other Public Grounds: No person shall simply throw
or deposit advertising materials on the streets or other public grounds of the
city. (2008 Code § 16-27)
CHAPTER 10
TREE SURGEONS
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definition
3-10-2: License Required; Fee
3-10-3: Insurance Required; Amounts
3-10-4: Bond Required; Conditions
3-10-1: DEFINITION:
The term "tree surgeon", as used in this chapter, shall mean any person who for
a valuable consideration cuts or trims any tree or limbs or branches of any
tree or who cuts and removes any tree or treats diseases of any tree. (2008
Code § 29-16)
3-10-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   License Required: No person shall act as a tree surgeon in the city
without first obtaining a license therefor. (2008 Code § 29-17)
   B.   Fee: The annual fee for a license required by this chapter shall be
twenty five dollars ($25.00). (2008 Code § 29-19)
3-10-3: INSURANCE REQUIRED; AMOUNTS:
   A.   Amounts Of Insurance: Before any license required by this chapter shall
be issued, the applicant shall file with the city clerk a certificate of
insurance with the city being shown as an insured which insures the city and
the applicant in the following minimum amounts: fifty thousand dollars'
($50,000.00) coverage for property damage, one hundred thousand dollars'
($100,000.00) coverage per person per occurrence for death or bodily injury
with a maximum of three hundred thousand dollars' ($300,000.00) coverage per
occurrence for death or bodily injury.
   B.   Notice Of Cancellation: Said certificate shall further provide for
fifteen (15) days' notice of cancellation. (2008 Code § 29-18)
3-10-4: BOND REQUIRED; CONDITIONS:
The applicant for license required by this chapter shall post with the clerk a
penal bond in the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) with good and
sufficient sureties approved by the city attorney. The bond shall guarantee the
applicant's payment for any damage done to the city or to public property in
the course of the performance of the applicant's business. (2008 Code § 29-20)
CHAPTER 11
CAR DEALERS
SECTION:
3-11-1: License Required; Application; Fee
3-11-2: Car Lots
3-11-3: Car Auctions
3-11-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE:
   A.   License Required: Any person who engages in the business of selling or
buying motor vehicles, such vehicles to be licensed and used on public right of
way, whether new or used, shall make application and receive a license
therefor.
   B.   Fee: The fee for such license shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   C.   Employees Or Agents Excepted: Businesses which receive licenses under
this section shall not be required to license individual employees or agents.
(2008 Code § 16-29)
3-11-2: CAR LOTS:
   A.   Minimum Area For Lot: The minimum area for a new or used car lot shall
be ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
   B.   Hard Surface; Cleanliness: All car lots shall be hard surfaced with
portland concrete, cement or asphalt, and free of dust, trash, and debris.
(2008 Code § 16-30)
3-11-3: CAR AUCTIONS:
No person shall sell motor vehicles at auctions without first providing to the
police department the vehicle identification number of the vehicle to be
auctioned, a description of the vehicle by make, year and model, and its value.
This information shall be provided at least one week before the auction is to
be held. (2008 Code § 16-31)
CHAPTER 12
VEHICLES FOR HIRE
SECTION:
3-12-1: Bus Stops And Taxicab Stands
3-12-2: Parking On Public Or Private Property
3-12-3: Payment For Transportation
3-12-4: Rates For Municipal Transit System
3-12-5: Appeal From Actions Of Clerk
3-12-6: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-12-1: BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS:
   A.   Designation By Signs: Every bus stop and taxicab stand shall be
designated by appropriate signs.
   B.   Use Of Stops And Stands:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle other than a
bus to stand or park in an officially designated bus stop, or of any vehicle
other than a taxicab to stand or park in an officially designated taxicab
stand, except that the operator of any passenger vehicle may temporarily stop
in any such stop or stand for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in,
the loading or unloading of passengers.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any bus or taxicab to stand
or park upon any street in any business district at any place other than at a
bus stop or taxicab stand, respectively. This provision shall not prohibit the
operator of any such vehicle from temporarily stopping in accordance with other
parking regulations at any place for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, loading or unloading passengers. (2008 Code § 30-1)
   C.   Bus Stops Enumerated: The following locations shall be used as bus
stops in the city:
State Street, on the south side, from one hundred seventy three feet (173')
west of 17th Street to one hundred ten feet (110') west of 17th Street. (2008
Code § 30-6)
3-12-2: PARKING ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Streets, Public Places: It shall be unlawful to leave any motor vehicle
kept for hire parked or standing on any street, alley or public place, except
for the purpose of loading and unloading, and then only so long as is necessary
for loading and unloading, not to exceed ten (10) minutes at any one time.
   B.   Private Property: All such vehicles kept for hire, when not actually in
use carrying or loading or unloading passengers or freight, shall stand on
private property. (2008 Code § 30-2)
3-12-3: PAYMENT FOR TRANSPORTATION:
No person shall, without having previously arranged for credit on account
thereof, procure carriage or transportation by any taxicab or rent any
automobile from any person conducting an auto livery, with or without a driver,
without paying for such transportation or the hiring of such vehicle. (2008
Code § 30-3)
3-12-4: RATES FOR MUNICIPAL TRANSIT SYSTEM:
Quad city monthly passport                                               $30.00
Fare information:                                                         
 Full                                                                   1.00
  Dial-a-bus                                                             4.00
Senior citizens/patrons with disabilities (medicare card qualifies):
  Route bus                                                              0.50
 Dial-a-bus                                                             1.75
  Accompanying aide                                                      Free
College students (upon presentation of current school ID)                0.50
Monthly pass (Bettendorf transit only)                                   21.00
Monthly pass (Bettendorf transit only; seniors/patrons with disabilities 10.50
- medicare card qualifies)
 
(2008 Code § 30-7)
3-12-5: APPEAL FROM ACTIONS OF CLERK:
Any person deeming himself aggrieved by any ruling of the city clerk with
respect to the application of any administrative provisions of this chapter may
appeal therefrom to the city council. (2008 Code § 30-4)
3-12-6: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Suspension Or Revocation; Notice; Hearing: Licenses granted pursuant to
this chapter may be suspended or revoked at any time by the mayor or by the
council for violation of any provision of this chapter or for any cause deemed
sufficient by the council. The revocation of any license is sufficient cause
for the mayor to deny the issuance of another license under this chapter to the
same licensee. If the issuance of any license is denied or if a license is
revoked by the mayor, the mayor shall immediately give the applicant or
licensee written notice of such action and specify a time, not more than five
(5) days after the notice, for a hearing before the mayor and city council, at
which time the applicant or licensee may show cause and be heard in behalf of
the granting or restoring of such license.
   B.   Rendering Decision: If proper showing is made at the hearing, the mayor
and city council shall order the license issued or restored. (2008 Code § 30-5;
amd. 2015 Code)
ARTICLE A. TAXICABS
SECTION:
3-12A-1: Definition
3-12A-2: License Required; Fee
3-12A-3: Insurance Required
3-12A-4: Vehicle Inspection; Equipment
3-12A-5: Designation Of Taxicabs
3-12A-6: Taximeter
3-12A-7: Rates For Service; Receipts
3-12A-8: Driver Photo Identification
3-12A-9: Taxi Stands
3-12A-10: Unattended Taxicabs
3-12A-1: DEFINITION:
"Taxi service" shall be defined as the transport of passengers in a motor
vehicle from one point to another either within or without the city for pay.
(2008 Code § 16-102)
3-12A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   License Required: No person shall operate a motor vehicle to provide a
taxi service within the city without obtaining a license therefor.
   B.   Fee; Term Of License: The fee for this license shall be fifty dollars
($50.00) for each vehicle registered, and the license shall be valid from July
1 to June 30 of each year. (2008 Code § 16-102)
3-12A-3: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
All vehicles serving as taxicabs shall be covered by insurance in an amount not
less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for the injury or death
of any one person, one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for the injury or death
of any number of persons, and five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for
property damage from any one accident. The city shall be listed as an
additional named insured. (2008 Code § 16-102)
3-12A-4: VEHICLE INSPECTION; EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Inspection: All vehicles used as taxicabs shall be inspected by the
chief of police or the chief's designee prior to a license being issued.
   B.   Equipment: All vehicles serving as taxicabs shall be equipped with all
safety equipment, including, but not limited to, seat belts, horns, lights,
windshield wipers, etc., required by this code or state law. (2008 Code § 16-
103)
3-12A-5: DESIGNATION OF TAXICABS:
Each vehicle used to provide taxi service within the city shall display on the
outside of the vehicle the word "taxi" or "taxicab", along with name of the
owner, in letters not less than two inches (2") tall. (2008 Code § 16-104)
3-12A-6: TAXIMETER:
   A.   Requirements: Each vehicle used to provide taxi service within the city
shall be equipped with a taximeter, which cannot be altered by the driver,
other than to turn off or on. Such meter shall accurately record the distance
traveled, either by mileage or incremental charge for the service. Each trip
shall be recorded on the taximeter.
   B.   Inspection: The taximeter may be inspected from time to time by agents
of the city to verify that passengers are being charged for actual distance
traveled. (2008 Code § 16-105)
3-12A-7: RATES FOR SERVICE; RECEIPTS:
   A.   Rates: All rates for service shall be listed on a card and placed in
such a position that any passenger can tell what the rate per mile of service
will be. (2008 Code § 16-106)
   B.   Receipts: Upon request, any passenger shall be entitled to a receipt
showing the date of service, the fee, the mileage driven, and the name of the
owner of the taxicab. (2008 Code § 16-108)
3-12A-8: DRIVER PHOTO IDENTIFICATION:
The driver of a taxicab shall have a photo ID showing the driver's picture and
name displayed immediately adjacent to the card listing the rates and within
the view of all passengers. (2008 Code § 16-107)
3-12A-9: TAXI STANDS:
Upon the request of any licensed taxicab owner, the city council may by
resolution establish taxi stands for the use of taxicabs exclusively while
awaiting fares within the city. Nothing contained in this section shall be
deemed to require the council to establish any particular location as a taxi
stand. (2008 Code § 16-109)
3-12A-10: UNATTENDED TAXICABS:
No taxicab shall be allowed to remain parked and unattended on a city street or
in a taxi stand. (2008 Code § 16-110)
ARTICLE B. LIMOUSINES
SECTION:
3-12B-1: Definition
3-12B-2: License Required; Fee
3-12B-3: Insurance Required
3-12B-4: Fee For Service; Receipt
3-12B-5: Unattended Limousines
3-12B-1: DEFINITION:
"Limousine service" shall be defined as motor vehicles providing transport
services from point to point either within or without the city for pay over a
set time (such as hours) as opposed to distance (a fee per mile). (2008 Code §
16-111)
3-12B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   License Required: No person shall operate a motor vehicle to provide a
limousine service within the city without obtaining a license therefor.
   B.   Fee; Term Of License: The fee for this license shall be fifty dollars
($50.00) for each vehicle registered, and the license shall be valid from July
1 to June 30 of each year. (2008 Code § 16-112)
3-12B-3: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
All vehicles serving as limousines shall be covered by insurance in an amount
not less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for the injury or
death of any one person, one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for the injury or
death of any number of persons, and five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00)
for property damage from any one accident. The city shall be listed as an
additional named insured. (2008 Code § 16-112)
3-12B-4: FEE FOR SERVICE; RECEIPT:
   A.   Copy Of Charges: All operators of a limousine service shall provide
passengers with a copy of the limousine rental agreement providing a detailed
explanation of the hourly charge, damage deposits, and any other term or
condition.
   B.   Receipt: Upon the request of any passenger, the passenger shall be
provided a receipt for the service, listing the length of service, total fee
charged, whether a damage/cleaning fee will be charged, and the name of the
owner of the vehicle. (2008 Code § 16-113)
3-12B-5: UNATTENDED LIMOUSINES:
No vehicle used for limousine service may be left unattended on city streets.
(2008 Code § 16-114)
ARTICLE C. HORSEDRAWN CARRIAGES
SECTION:
3-12C-1: Scope Of Article
3-12C-2: Permit Required; Fee
3-12C-3: Operation From City Park; Permission Required
3-12C-4: Insurance Required
3-12C-5: Safety Devices
3-12C-6: Routes For Horsedrawn Carriages
3-12C-7: Animal Waste
3-12C-1: SCOPE OF ARTICLE:
A vehicle or cart or other device pulled by a horse or horses, and used to
provide either point to point rides within the city or rides to and from the
same point which shall use any public way for this transport shall be governed
by this article. (2008 Code § 16-97)
3-12C-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall operate a horsedrawn vehicle as
described in this article until a permit is issued by the city, and upon proof
of insurance coverage.
   B.   Fee; Term Of Permit: The fee for the permit, which shall be valid from
July 1 through June 30 of each year, shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(2008 Code § 16-101)
3-12C-3: OPERATION FROM CITY PARK; PERMISSION REQUIRED:
If the operator of the horsedrawn vehicle also wishes to operate out of a city
park, permission of the City Council must be obtained. (2008 Code § 16-101;
amd. 2015 Code; Ord. 05-21, 3-16-2021)
3-12C-4: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
The owner of such vehicle shall be required to carry insurance on the vehicle
with a minimum of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for the injury or
death of any one person, one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for the injury or
death of any number of persons, and five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00)
for property damage from any one accident. The city shall be listed as an
additional named insured. (2008 Code § 16-101)
3-12C-5: SAFETY DEVICES:
All horsedrawn vehicles, as defined in section
3-12C-1 of this article, shall have an orange triangle indicating slow moving
vehicle in the size and with such reflective capability as is mandated by state
law for slow moving vehicles, prominently affixed to the rear of the vehicle,
and lights attached to the rear sufficient to warn approaching traffic. (2008
Code § 16-98)
3-12C-6: ROUTES FOR HORSEDRAWN CARRIAGES:
The council shall establish horsedrawn carriage routes upon receipt of an
application. (2008 Code § 16-99)
3-12C-7: ANIMAL WASTE:
The operator of any horsedrawn vehicle shall ensure that no animal waste shall
be deposited upon any city right of way, either by appropriate device to catch
the waste, or by the operator immediately taking steps to remove the waste from
the city right of way. (2008 Code § 16-100)
CHAPTER 13
MOBILE FOOD UNITS
SECTION:
3-13-1: Definitions
3-13-2: License Required
3-13-3: Application
3-13-4: Exceptions
3-13-5: General Regulations For All Mobile Food Units And Pushcarts
3-13-6: Pushcart Specific Regulations
3-13-7: Mobile Food Unit Specific Regulations
3-13-8: Enforcement And Penalties
3-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
COMMISSARY: Means a licensed food facility regulated by a governmental entity
where food is stored, prepared, portioned, packaged or any combination thereof,
and where such food is intended for consumption at another location or place
from a mobile food unit or pushcart.
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT: Means an operation that stores, prepares, packages, serves,
vends, or otherwise provides food for human consumption. For purposes of this
chapter, "food establishment" does not include an establishment that offers
only pre-packaged food that are non-potentially hazardous; a produce stand
which sells only whole, uncut fresh fruits and vegetables; an establishment
operating in a farmers' market if potentially hazardous food is not sold or
distributed; a residence in which food that is non-potentially hazardous is
sold for consumption off premises to a consumer customer provided the food is
labeled so as to identify its preparer; a private home that receives catered or
home-delivered food; child care facilities or food establishments in hospitals
or health care facilities which are subject to regulation by State agencies;
supply vehicles and vending machines.
MOBILE FOOD UNIT: Means a motorized, self-propelled food establishment or a
trailer or vehicle towed by a motorized vehicle, that is readily movable, and
which typically operates at a remote location and returns to a base of
operation or commissary at the end of its daily business. Mobile food units are
considered Class IV mobile food units by the Iowa Department of Inspections and
Appeals.
POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS FOOD: Has the same meaning as provided in Iowa Code
chapter 137F.
PUSHCART: Means a single axle, non-motorized cart, with top- loading capability
only. (Ord. 09-18, 5-1-2018)
3-13-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall sell or offer for sale or otherwise engage in business as a
mobile food unit or pushcart within the City without having first obtained a
license to operate as such. A mobile food unit license is a special license and
is required in addition to any other required City business license or State
license or permit the person may hold or be required to hold. A separate mobile
food unit license is required for each mobile food vehicle or pushcart from
which business is conducted in the City. Mobile food unit licenses are not
transferrable or assignable. The license issuance shall be approved by the City
Council by resolution. If said license calls for establishment or operation in
a public park, then approval must be granted by the Park Board prior to
approval by City Council. (Ord. 09-18, 5-1-2018)
3-13-3: APPLICATION:
An application form available from the City Clerk's Office must be filled out
and submitted to the City Clerk for processing. The completed application must
be submitted together with a copy of the applicant's Iowa retail Sales Tax
permit and proof of liability insurance, including commercial general liability
insurance coverage and automotive liability insurance coverage. Commercial
general liability insurance shall include coverage for bodily injury, death and
property damage with limits of liability of not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and aggregate combined single limit. Automobile
liability insurance coverage shall include coverage for bodily injury, death
and property damage with limits of liability of not less than one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence, combined single limit. Certificates of
insurance shall provide that the policy or policies have been endorsed to
provide thirty (30) days' advance notice of cancellation and forty five (45)
days' advance notice of non-renewal and ten (10) days' advance notice of
cancellation for non-payment of premium and that these notices shall be
provided to the City Clerk's Office by email, facsimile or mail. Cancellation
of required insurance automatically revokes and terminates the mobile food unit
license to operate in Bettendorf unless other insurance policies are provided
in a timely manner to the City. The City of Bettendorf shall be added as an
additional insured. If the mobile food unit or pushcart sells food or beverages
other than pre-packaged items that do not require hot or cold handling
procedures, the application shall also contain a copy of the mobile food unit's
license issued by the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals, a copy of the
food establishment license issued by the Iowa Department of Inspections and
Appeals for any commissary kitchen or other premises where food is prepared,
copies of the food protection manager certifications, the name and address of
the facility at which any waste fat, waste oil or waste grease generated by the
mobile food unit or pushcart operation is disposed of, and a copy of the
certificate of annual compliance issued by the Fire Marshal.
Before a license is issued, the applicant shall pay a license fee according to
the following schedule:
 
Annual mobile food unit license       $250.00
Annual pushcart food unit license     150.00
Single event mobile food unit license 75.00
 
(Ord. 09-18, 5-1-2018)
3-13-4: EXCEPTIONS:
License fees set forth in this chapter shall be adjusted or waived, as
applicable, in the following circumstances:
   A.   If a mobile food unit or pushcart vendor is subject to fees associated
with a special event hosted by the City, and the fees for participation in the
special event are equal to or greater than the fees associated with this
chapter, no further fees shall be incurred by the mobile food unit or pushcart
vendor for participation in such event. The mobile food unit/pushcart vendor
paying such special event fees shall be entitled to operate as a mobile food
unit or pushcart in the City without additional fees under this chapter. In the
event a mobile food unit or pushcart vendor has already paid fees under this
chapter, such vendor shall only be required to pay the difference between the
fees set forth in this chapter and the special event fees in order to
participate in the special event.
   B.   License fees under this chapter are waived for mobile food unit or
pushcart vendors operating a mobile food unit or pushcart in connection with a
business on the vendor's owned or leased real property upon which the vendor's
brick and mortar business is located. Such vendor is subject to all fees under
this chapter in the event the mobile food unit/pushcart operates outside the
vendor's owned or leased real property.
For avoidance of doubt, irrespective of fees, all provisions of this chapter
are in full force and effect when operating a mobile food unit or pushcart in
the City. Furthermore, the City does not have jurisdiction to grant approval on
State or Federal right-of- way (i.e., State St., Grant St., I-74, Highway 67,
Mississippi River, etc.). All operation of mobile food units and pushcarts in
the City is subject to licensing provisions set forth in this chapter. (Ord.
09-18, 5-1-2018)
3-13-5: GENERAL REGULATIONS FOR ALL MOBILE FOOD UNITS AND PUSHCARTS:
   A.   Mobile food units shall have, and at all times maintain, all necessary
licenses and permits from the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals as
well as the City's required permits and licenses.
   B.   Mobile food units shall at all times operate in compliance with all
applicable food, health and sanitation laws and shall comply with all Health
Department regulations regarding food service, food storage and preparation,
food handling and food cooking and shall have a valid inspection certificate or
permit evincing Health Department inspection and approval on display and easily
visible to the mobile food unit's or pushcart's patrons at all times in
operation.
   C.   No mobile food unit or pushcart shall offer for sale or sell food and/
or non-alcoholic beverage between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   D.   No mobile food unit or pushcart shall operate in a manner that violates
this Code concerning noise. A mobile food unit or pushcart operator shall not
call out to, cry out, shout out or otherwise communicate or make any noise or
use any device to call attention to his or her unit's or cart's location and
operation if it violates this Code.
   E.   A mobile food unit or pushcart is responsible for keeping and
maintaining the area around and within fifty feet (50') of the mobile food unit
or pushcart neat, clean and free from trash, debris, garbage and other
hazardous conditions at all times regardless of whether the trash, debris or
garbage originated from the operation of the unit or pushcart or was left in
the area by a pedestrian passersby or natural conditions. A mobile food unit or
pushcart shall provide adequate trash receptacles for the public for all
garbage from its operation and from the accumulation of garbage in the area
around his or her unit or pushcart at all times the unit is in operation. At
the close of its daily business the mobile food unit or pushcart must remove
all garbage from the area and properly dispose of it away from the site of its
operation. The garbage shall not simply be placed in nearby public garbage
receptacles provided for use to the general public at large.
   F.   The license required by this chapter, the State Sales Tax permit and
all licenses, permits, or certificates required to be displayed by State law,
shall be posted on the mobile food unit or pushcart so as to be readily visible
to all persons conducting business with the mobile food unit.
   G.   Mobile food units and pushcarts shall only offer single service food
utensils such as cups, straws, knives, forks, spoons, stirrers, plates, bowls,
wrappers, containers, and similar utensils, which shall be individually wrapped
if usual, and kept in a clean place and only used once in the service of food
and/or beverage.
   H.   No mobile food unit or pushcart shall be left at its operating location
at the end of its business day and shall be removed to its base business
operation location, unless associated with a multi-day event or festival.
   I.   No mobile food unit or pushcart shall conduct operations at a location
or in a manner that hinders, impedes or restricts access to a pay phone, mail
box, emergency call box, traffic control box, fire hydrant, entrance to a
building or a driveway, or any other similar infrastructure.
   J.   A mobile food unit or pushcart operating on private property shall not
encroach into any public sidewalk.
   K.   A pushcart and mobile food unit shall not violate parking regulations.
   L.   No mobile food unit or pushcart is allowed on the grounds of any school
unless it has been invited to be there as part of a school authorized function.
   M.   The City reserves the right to move a mobile food unit or pushcart from
any location if determined to be necessary for the provision of emergency or
public services or in the interest of public safety, peace and welfare.
   N.   No mobile food unit or pushcart shall offer for sale or sell any
liquor, beer, or wine from such unit.
   O.   When operating on City local right-of-way - City streets, parks,
parking lots, and public spaces - mobile food units must acquire signed
permission from all front, side, and back facing business owners and provide a
copy of same to the City Clerk.
   P.   When operating on private property mobile food unit must acquire signed
permission from business owner and provide a copy of same to the City Clerk.
   Q.   Mobile food units or pushcarts participating in a private party
pursuant to invitation or contract on private, residential property hosted by
the owner of the property, such as a graduation party, wedding reception,
birthday celebration or similar event, are required to display proof of its
authorization to operate in Iowa and required health inspection certificate.
Mobile food units or pushcarts participating in a public celebration or special
event hosted by a public body, community organization, charitable organization,
patriotic organization, religious organization, educational institution or
similar entity pursuant to invitation or contract must comply with the
licensing provisions of this chapter and must display proof of its
authorization to operate in Iowa and required health inspection certification.
   R.   Pushcart and mobile food unit vendors agree to indemnify and hold
harmless the City from and against any and all loss, cost, damages or claims to
persons or property, including property of the City, arising out of or claimed
to have arisen out of the operation of a pushcart. In addition, pushcart
vendors agree to defend, at no cost to the City, any such claims or lawsuits.
The City may, at its option, join the defense of such claim or lawsuit without
relieving the pushcart vendor from its obligations to indemnify, hold harmless
and defend the City.
   S.   No pushcart or mobile food unit shall conduct business in areas of the
City at which they are not permitted or authorized.
   T.   No pushcart or mobile food unit shall operate in a manner detrimental
to City planning documents such as landscape, streetscape, PUDs/overlays, etc.
(Ord. 09-18, 5-1-2018)
3-13-6: PUSHCART SPECIFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   A pushcart shall not allow, cause or obstruct the passage along any
sidewalk, street, alley or parking lot as a result of a congregation of people
seeking service from the pushcart or because of the size, shape or placement of
the pushcart so as to interfere, inhibit or block the normal flow of pedestrian
or vehicular traffic.
   B.   A pushcart shall not sell to any person operating a vehicle on a public
street while the person's vehicle is located within the traveled portion of the
roadway. A pushcart may sell to a person operating or occupying a motor vehicle
that is legally parked, but may only do so from the curb side of said parked
vehicle.
   C.   No pushcart or equipment shall be allowed to remain in the public
right-of-way at the close of business unless associated with a multi-day event
or festival.
   D.   Pushcarts may operate on a paved surface, designated parking space or
sidewalk subject to the other requirements of this chapter. In addition, a
pushcart may operate at a requested location on private property provided
application has been made for permission to operate at the requested location
and that application is accompanied by a verifiable letter from the owner or
person in control of the property granting permission to operate on the
premises. Permission by the owner/person in control of property may be
rescinded at any time by notifying the City Clerk's Office in writing that
permission is rescinded. If permission is rescinded, no fees or portion of fees
paid will be refunded.
   E.   Pushcarts shall be subject to the same permit and fee structure as all
other mobile food units. (Ord. 09-18, 5-1-2018)
3-13-7: MOBILE FOOD UNIT SPECIFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   Sales shall be conducted on the sidewalk side of the mobile food unit
whenever possible away from moving vehicles.
   B.   No mobile food unit shall be used for any purpose other than as a
mobile food unit offering food and/or non-alcoholic beverage to customers.
(Ord. 09-18, 5-1-2018)
3-13-8: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
The Scott County Health Department, the Bettendorf Police Department, the
Bettendorf Fire Department, Bettendorf Code enforcement officials, and the City
Clerk are authorized to enforce this chapter. The Scott County Health
Department may elect to pursue enforcement under the provisions of this chapter
or under applicable State laws and regulations with the sanctions available
thereunder.
The performance of any action contrary to the provisions of this chapter may be
cited as a Municipal infraction offense. Additionally, failure to adhere to the
regulations is cause for revocation or suspension of a license to operate as a
mobile food unit or pushcart. (Ord. 09-18, 5-1-2018)
CHAPTER 14
MASSAGE BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-14-1: Purpose
3-14-2: Definitions
3-14-3: State License Required
3-14-4: Display Of License
3-14-5: Information Required
3-14-6: Hours Of Operation
3-14-7: Penalty
3-14-1: PURPOSE:
The State of Iowa licenses massage therapists and businesses pursuant to Iowa
Code chapter 152C. State licensed massage therapists and businesses offering
therapy services perform an important service in addressing the health and
wellbeing of Bettendorf's residents. Unfortunately, there are businesses that
advertise they provide massage therapy and/or therapeutic services, but
actually engage in various illegal activities. This chapter is not intended to
discourage a legitimately licensed massage therapist or massage therapy
business from providing their/its services in the City of Bettendorf. The
purpose of this chapter is to identify and address businesses that engage in
the practice of massage therapy without a license and/or are involved in
illegal activities. Businesses providing massage therapy yet conducting various
types of illegal activity are harmful to the Bettendorf community and the
massage therapy profession. (Ord. 10-19, 6-4-2019)
3-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
LICENSED MASSAGE THERAPIST (OR LMT): Means an individual who has a license
issued by the State of Iowa to perform massage therapy.
MASSAGE THERAPY: Means the same as it does in the massage therapy licensing
provision set forth in the Iowa Code found at section 152C.1: performance for
compensation of massage, myotherapy, massotherapy, bodywork, bodywork therapy,
or therapeutic massage including hydrotherapy, superficial hot and cold
applications, vibration and topical applications, or other therapy which
involves manipulation of the muscle and connective tissue of the body,
excluding osseous tissue, to treat the muscle tonus system for the purpose of
enhancing health, muscle relaxation, increasing range of motion, reducing
stress, relieving pain, or improving circulation.
MASSAGE THERAPY BUSINESS: Means a place of business where "massage therapy" is
practiced or administered. (Ord. 10-19, 6-4-2019)
3-14-3: STATE LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall employ or contract with a person to perform massage therapy
unless the person is an LMT. No person shall perform massage therapy unless the
person is an LMT, unless exempted from Iowa Code chapter 152C. No person shall
engage in or offer to engage in the practice of massage therapy or use the
initials "LMT" or the words "licensed massage therapist", "massage therapist",
"masseur", "masseuse" or any other word or title that implied or represents
that a person practices massage therapy at the business, unless the person
possesses a license issued under Iowa Code section 152C.3. (Ord. 10-19, 6-4-
2019)
3-14-4: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Each massage therapist shall keep his/her license in possession at all times
while doing business in the City and shall, upon the request of prospective
customers or City official, exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with
all requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 10-19, 6-4-2019)
3-14-5: INFORMATION REQUIRED:
A massage business shall immediately produce upon request by City staff certain
business information including:
   A.   The name of business;
   B.   Names of all LMTs employed or contracted by the business and their
State license numbers;
   C.   Names and addresses of all other persons who work on the business
premises whether employees or independent contractors of the business along
with a description of the work performed;
   D.   Government issued photo identification card for all employees or
independent contractors of the business to verify and confirm identify of
individuals referenced in subsections B and C of this section;
   E.   Name(s) of the business owner; and
   F.   Name(s) and mailing address(es) of all individuals who have an
ownership interest in the business. (Ord. 10-19, 6-4-2019)
3-14-6: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Massage therapy businesses shall not be open for business nor shall patrons be
permitted on the premises between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and
five o'clock (5:00) A.M. (Ord. 10-19, 6-4-2019)
3-14-7: PENALTY:
   A.   If the requested business information described in section
3-14-5 of this chapter is not immediately produced to City staff upon request,
the business premises may be placarded. If the business information that is
produced is either inaccurate or incomplete, the business may be placarded.
   B.   The Chief of Police, or designee, shall place in a highly noticeable
location a placard stating "Unlicensed Massage Therapy. It is unlawful to
provide or receive massage therapy services at this location; and is subject to
criminal and/or civil penalty per Bettendorf City Code 3-14." This notice shall
remain posted until required business information is obtained by the City or
other legal use has been established.
   C.   No person shall remove the placard posted pursuant to subsection B of
this section without approval of the Police Chief or his designees.
   D.   No person shall continue to offer or receive "massage therapy" services
after a massage therapy business has been placarded unless the Police Chief or
his designees have approved the removal of the placard.
   E.   Any person or in connection with one or more persons or as principal,
agent, or accessory is found continuing to offer or receive "massage therapy"
services after that establishment has been placarded may be subject to a simple
misdemeanor charge or Municipal infraction, punishable as provided in this
chapter or pursuant to State law. (Ord. 10-19, 6-4-2019)
CHAPTER 15
REFLEXOLOGY BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-15-1: Purpose
3-15-2: Definitions
3-15-3: City License Required
3-15-4: Application
3-15-5: Granting Or Denial Of License
3-15-6: Conditions Governing Issuance
3-15-7: Grounds For Denial And Revocation Or Suspension
3-15-8: Hours Of Operation
3-15-9: Penalty
3-15-1: PURPOSE:
Unlike massage therapy, the State of Iowa does not license reflexologists and
reflexology businesses. Legitimate reflexologists and businesses offering
reflexology services perform an important service in addressing the health and
wellbeing of Bettendorf's residents. Unfortunately, there are businesses that
advertise they provide reflexology services, but actually engage in various
illegal activities. This chapter is not intended to discourage legitimate
reflexologists or reflexology businesses from providing their services in the
City of Bettendorf. The purpose of this chapter is to identify and address
businesses that engage in the practice of reflexology without a license and/or
are involved in illegal activities. Businesses providing reflexology yet
conducting various types of illegal activity are harmful to the Bettendorf
community and the reflexology profession. (Ord. 10-19, 6-4-2019)
3-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
REFLEXOLOGIST: A person who performs reflexology.
REFLEXOLOGY: Means the manipulation of the soft tissues of the human body that
is restricted to the hands, feet, or ears, performed by persons who do not hold
themselves out to be massage therapists or to be performing massage therapy.
REFLEXOLOGY BUSINESS: Means a place of business where only "reflexology" is
practiced or administered. Reflexology business does not mean a massage therapy
business where licensed massage therapists perform or administer reflexology.
(Ord. 10-19, 6-4-2019)
3-15-3: CITY LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall operate a reflexology business, either exclusively or
in connection with another business, without being licensed by the City as
provided in this chapter.
   B.   If a business is operating as a massage therapy business as defined in
chapter 14 of this title and reflexology services are being provided by a
licensed massage therapist, the business falls under the provisions of chapter
14 of this title and does not need to be licensed by the City. (Ord. 10-19, 6-
4-2019)
3-15-4: APPLICATION:
Application for a reflexology business license shall be made on forms provided
by the City's Finance Department. The application must be submitted to the City
within sixty (60) days of the date this chapter becomes effective and before
opening a reflexology business, whichever is earlier. The application shall
include:
   A.   The business name, the address of the property to be used as the
reflexology business, and documentation establishing control of the premises on
which the business will be located, which shall be in the form of a lease,
deed, or other document that establishes the applicant's control.
   B.   At the time of the application, the applicant shall provide the
following most current and updated information as requested below in a list
format to be maintained at all times concerning the applicant, owner and all
employees, contractors, or other persons who are or will be present on the
premises to perform reflexology:
      1.   Names and addresses of all reflexologists employed or contracted by
the business that are not licensed as massage therapists;
      2.   Names and addresses of all other persons who work on the business
premises whether employees or independent contractors of the business along
with a description of the work performed;
      3.   Government issued photo identification card for all employees or
independent contractors of the business to verify and confirm identify of
individuals referenced in subsections B1 and B2 of this section;
      4.   Name(s) of the business owner; and
      5.   Name(s) and mailing address(es) of all individuals who have an
ownership interest in the business.
   C.   Dates and locations of other businesses or business locations the
applicant owns or operates, or has owned or operated as a reflexology or
massage business.
   D.   In the event an applicant or licensee intends to operate a reflexology
business in multiple physical locations, a separate application is required for
each individual location.
   E.   Criminal history, excluding traffic violations, for the past three (3)
years, for anyone described in subsection A, B, or D of this section. (Ord. 10-
19, 6-4-2019)
3-15-5: GRANTING OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
Prior to opening or operating any reflexology business within the City, said
proposed reflexology business shall obtain a business license from the City.
License applications shall be reviewed by the City Clerk, the Police Chief, or
a designee, who after considering all of the information provided shall either
grant or deny the license. The cost of the license is one hundred dollars
($100.00) annually. (Ord. 10-19, 6-4-2019)
3-15-6: CONDITIONS GOVERNING ISSUANCE:
Licenses shall only be issued to applicants who have provided all of the
information requested in the application and have cooperated with the Finance
Departments and other City officials in review of the application. The license,
if issued, shall be displayed on the business premises in a conspicuous public
area. (Ord. 10-19, 6-4-2019)
3-15-7: GROUNDS FOR DENIAL AND REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
It shall be grounds for denial, revocation and/or suspension of an application
or reflexology license if one or more of the following conditions are met:
   A.   If the applicant or licensee is not complying with or has a history of
violations of sex crimes as defined by Iowa Code chapter 709, or for
prostitution as defined by Iowa Code chapter 725, or for keeping a house of
prostitution as defined by Iowa Code chapter 657, or who is a registered sex
offender, or the laws and ordinances that might adversely impact public health
or safety as determined by the Police Chief;
   B.   If the licensee solicits or advertised to offer services that are a
violation of this chapter;
   C.   If the licensee is convicted of any violation, reasonably related to
the license activity and/or occurring on the licensed premises, of any City
ordinance or Federal or State Statute;
   D.   If there is fraud or deception involved in the license application;
   E.   If the licensee has, in the past, engaged in willful disregard for
Health Codes and regulations;
   F.   If the applicant fails to provide all the information and documentation
required by this chapter;
   G.   If the licensee permits individual(s) not included in the application
to conduct reflexology services at the licensee's premises;
   H.   If the licensee refuses to permit any authorized police officers or
authorized City, County, or State governmental official to inspect the
reflexologists government ID at the premises;
   I.   If the licensee is found to be violating provisions of this chapter;
   J.   If the licensee promotes its services on websites that are known to
advertise services that are illegal; or
   K.   If the licensee provided incomplete or inaccurate information on the
application. (Ord. 10-19, 6-4-2019)
3-15-8: HOURS OF OPERATION:
The licensed premises shall not be open for business nor shall patrons be
permitted on the premises between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and
five o'clock (5:00) A.M. (Ord. 10-19, 6-4-2019)
3-15-9: PENALTY:
   A.   If a reflexology business is not licensed as provided in this chapter,
the business premises may be placarded. If the business information that is
produced is either inaccurate or incomplete, the business may be placarded.
   B.   The Police Chief, or designee, shall place in a highly noticeable
location a placard stating "Unlicensed Reflexology. It is unlawful to provide
or receive reflexology services; and is subject to criminal and/or civil
penalty per Bettendorf City Code 3-15." This notice shall remain posted until
required business information is obtained by the City or other legal use has
been established.
   C.   No person shall remove the placard posted pursuant to subsection B of
this section without approval of the Police Chief or his designees.
   D.   No person shall continue to offer or receive reflexology services after
a reflexology business has been placarded unless the Police Chief or designees
have approved the removal of the placard.
   E.   Any person or in connection with one or more persons or as principal,
agent, or accessory is found continuing to offer or receive reflexology
services after that establishment has been placarded may be subject to a simple
misdemeanor or Municipal infraction, punishable as provided in this chapter or
pursuant to State law. (Ord. 10-19, 6-4-2019)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: Nuisances Declared
4-1-3: Nuisances Prohibited
4-1-4: Determination Of Nuisances; Notice; Hearing
4-1-5: Successive Owner Liable
4-1-6: Emergency Abatement
4-1-7: Applicability of Iowa Code Chapter 657A
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
ABATE: To take action to repair, replace, remove, destroy, cease or otherwise
remedy a condition which constitutes a public nuisance as declared by the city
council.
EMERGENCY: A situation in which the existence of a public nuisance creates an
unquestionable health or safety hazard.
OWNER: Any person(s), whether alone or in concert with another, partnership,
corporation, unincorporated association, joint venture, governmental entity, or
other entity or group of persons however organized having legal or equitable or
possessory control over a public nuisance. (2008 Code § 18-1)
4-1-2: NUISANCES DECLARED:
The following are hereby declared public nuisances:
   A.   Nuisance Per Se: Any activity or condition which creates an
unquestionable health or safety hazard.
   B.   Nuisance At Common Law: Any activity or condition which is listed or
considered a nuisance under the common law of the state of Iowa.
   C.   Nuisance At Law: Any activity defined as a nuisance under Iowa Code
chapter 657, as amended from time to time; and, any activity or condition
defined in this chapter as a nuisance under the city's home rule.
   D.   Nuisance Within Public Way: Any item in the right of way for which a
franchise or permit has not been received and which creates a hazardous
condition for the public use of the right of way.
   E.   Other Nuisances: Any action or condition which, left unabated, may
unreasonably endanger the health, safety, life, limb or property or cause
damage or injury to residents of the city in the following particulars:
      1.   By reason of being a menace, threat or hazard to the general health
of the community.
      2.   By reason of being a fire hazard.
      3.   By reason of being unsafe for occupancy.
      4.   By lack of sufficient maintenance of the structure, and/or being
vacant either of which depreciates the enjoyment and use of the property
immediately adjacent or in the immediate vicinity of the structure, to such
extent that it is harmful to the community generally.
      5.   The following actions are declared public nuisances:
         a.   Illegal consumption of intoxicating liquors or illegal drugs.
         b.   Public urination or defecation.
         c.   Action which causes a reasonable person on his/her property to
fear for personal safety or personal property of the person.
         d.   Acts of violence, including fighting among permittees on the
property.
         e.   Discharge of a weapon, except as otherwise authorized by law or
by a police officer in the line of duty.
         f.   Intentional obstruction of a residence.
         g.   Solicitation of acts of prostitution.
         h.   Solicitation of sale of illegal drugs. (2008 Code § 18-2)
4-1-3: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
No owner shall by action or inaction allow a nuisance to exist or continue on
the owner's property. (2008 Code § 18-3)
4-1-4: DETERMINATION OF NUISANCES; NOTICE; HEARING:
   A.   Nuisance Per Se: A nuisance per se shall be determined by the code
enforcement officer. The officer shall issue a municipal infraction and take
immediate steps to have the nuisance abated.
   B.   Other Categories: For all other categories of nuisances, upon
reasonable suspicion that a nuisance exists, the code enforcement officer shall
follow the following procedure:
      1.   Provide a notice to the owner and direct the nuisance to be abated
within thirty (30) days.
      2.   If the nuisance continues, to schedule a hearing before the city
council and to provide the owner with at least five (5) days' written notice of
the hearing, the nature of the nuisance, and the opportunity of the owner to
appear before the council and provide any relevant evidence on the question of
nuisance.
      3.   At the council hearing, the council shall take evidence and make
written findings that the nuisance either does or does not exist.
      4.   If a nuisance is found, the council shall direct the staff to take
such action as is necessary to abate the nuisance, including, but not limited
to, the filing of municipal infractions, contracting to abate the nuisance, and
filing the costs of abatement as a lien on the property whereon the nuisance
was abated.
      5.   The council need not find actual harm or damage to the public to
find a nuisance; the reasonable potential for harm shall be sufficient for
finding a nuisance exists. (2008 Code § 18-4)
4-1-5: SUCCESSIVE OWNER LIABLE:
Every successive owner of property who fails to abate the nuisance caused by
the former owner shall be liable therefor in the same manner as the one who
first created it. (2008 Code § 18-5)
4-1-6: EMERGENCY ABATEMENT:
In the event a nuisance per se is abated, the city may employ all lawful means
to recoup its full cost of abatement, including, but not limited to, the
assessment of costs against the property. (2008 Code § 18-6)
4-1-7: APPLICABILITY OF IOWA CODE CHAPTER 657A:
The City hereby adopts by reference, Sections 657A.1 through 657A.10 of the
Code of Iowa as required by Section 657A.10A of the Code of Iowa. (Ord. 17-22,
10-4-2022)
CHAPTER 2
WEEDS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Classes Of Noxious Weeds
4-2-2: Destruction Of Weeds
4-2-3: Time For Cutting Weeds; Assessment Of Costs
4-2-4: Notice To Owners
4-2-5: Billing
4-2-1: CLASSES OF NOXIOUS WEEDS:
Primary and secondary classes of weeds, as defined by Iowa Code section 317.1A,
are hereby declared to be noxious weeds. (2008 Code § 29-31; amd. 2015 Code)
4-2-2: DESTRUCTION OF WEEDS:
All owners and persons in possession or control of any lands within the city
shall:
   A.   Prevent the growth of noxious weeds from reaching maturity or blooming
by cutting or destroying same.
   B.   Cut or destroy all weeds, vines, brush or other growth when said growth
exceeds ten inches (10") in height in all developed areas or within two hundred
feet (200') of any developed area or urban street. In other areas of the city,
all weeds, vines, brush or other growth shall be cut or destroyed when said
growth exceeds two feet (2'). Natural areas, including, but not limited to,
waterways or farmland, may exceed these established height limitations.
   C.   Prevent any growth of weeds, vines, brush or other plant material which
constitutes a health, safety or fire hazard regardless of height. (2008 Code §
29-32)
4-2-3: TIME FOR CUTTING WEEDS; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS:
   A.   Failure To Destroy Weeds; Work Done By City: If a property owner or
person in possession of lands within the city fails to destroy the weeds,
vines, brush or other growth as set out in this chapter and, after notice is
given as provided by this article, the director of community development or
such person's designee shall order the work to be done.
   B.   Costs Assessed; Payment: The total cost and expense of destroying the
weeds or growth shall be paid and assessed against the land as provided by law.
Costs may be established by the council from time to time by resolution. (2008
Code § 29-33)
4-2-4: NOTICE TO OWNERS:
Notice to the owner or person in control of lands within the city subject to
the provision of this chapter shall be as follows: The director of community
development shall cause to be published on or before April 15 of each year in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city a notice stating that work of
cutting or destroying weeds, vines, brush or other growth is required to be
done during the months of May through October, inclusive, and a statement that
property owners have five (5) days, not including Saturdays, Sundays, or
holidays, within which such owners may cause the work to be done. Further, the
notice shall state that failure to comply after publication of the notice will
result in the work being done by the city, and the costs incurred by the city
shall be assessed against the property in the manner provided by law. No
further notice shall be required. (2008 Code § 29-34)
4-2-5: BILLING:
Each owner shall be sent by first class mail to the address noted on the tax
rolls of the city a bill for the work performed informing the owner of the cost
of such work and the council intent to assess the cost if not paid in ten (10)
days to the city clerk. Any bill remaining unpaid after the ten (10) day period
may be assessed against the property in the manner provided by law. (2008 Code
§ 29-35)
CHAPTER 3
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-3-1: Burning Leaves And Other Material
4-3-1: BURNING LEAVES AND OTHER MATERIAL:
   A.   Prohibited Burning; Exceptions; Permit And Fee: Leaves, trees, tree
trimmings, grass, rubbish, residential waste, or garbage shall not be burned
within the city, except as follows:
      1.   Fireplaces, wood burning stoves, and barbecue grills may be used for
the purposes intended by such items.
      2.   Open fires for cooking, heating, recreation and ceremonies shall be
allowed when such fire is not composed in whole or substantial part of leaves
and the location of such fire, and the items necessary for its containment,
comply with the provisions of the fire code. However, all such fires shall be
limited as follows:
         a.   No fire shall continue beyond ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
         b.   No property shall be used for a fire as allowed in this
subsection A2 more than once in a seven (7) consecutive day period.
      3.   Upon permit of the fire chief, and payment of a ten dollar ($10.00)
permit fee, the following additional items may be burned:
         a.   Disaster rubbish resulting from cleanup of an area within
specifically designated disaster areas.
         b.   Trees and tree trimmings by a local governmental entity.
         c.   Waste gases via a flare stack.
         d.   Landscape waste such as vegetable matter waste produced in
clearing, grubbing and construction.
         e.   Training fires as set for bona fide training of public or
industrial employees in firefighting methods.
         f.   Paper/plastic pesticide containers and seed corn bags resulting
from farming activities occurring on the premises.
   B.   Conditions Of Permit: All such permits shall be subject to compliance
by the applicant with the fire code, and any regulation in the Iowa
administrative code regarding such activity. (2008 Code § 11-2)
TITLE 5
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Created
5-1-2: Police Chief
5-1-3: Supervisory Control
5-1-4: Enforcement Of Laws
5-1-5: Assistance From The Public
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created a Police Department which shall consist of the Chief,
Captains, Lieutenants, Sergeants, patrol officers, and support personnel in
such numbers as may be authorized by the Council. (2008 Code § 24-1)
5-1-2: POLICE CHIEF:
   A.   Appointment; Discharge: The Chief of the Police Department shall be
appointed by the City Administrator. The Police Chief shall be removed from his
or her position as Police Chief in accordance with section
1-10-3 of this Code, and subject to the consent of a two-thirds (2/3) vote of
the Council. (Ord. 02-18, 1-16-2018)
   B.   Duties: The Chief shall serve as the Sergeant at Arms at Council
meetings, and is charged with the preservation of order at those meetings.
(2008 Code § 24-5)
5-1-3: SUPERVISORY CONTROL:
The Police Department shall be supervised by the Chief, who shall report to the
Mayor, or upon request of the Mayor, to the City Administrator. (2008 Code §
24-2)
5-1-4: ENFORCEMENT OF LAWS:
The department shall be charged with the enforcement of City and State Codes,
with the investigation of criminal activity, and the preservation of the peace.
(2008 Code § 24-3)
5-1-5: ASSISTANCE FROM THE PUBLIC:
Any member of the Police Department may orally summon as many persons as are
necessary to provide assistance to the department in the carrying out of its
duties. (2008 Code § 24-4)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-2-1: Department Established; Composition; Duties
5-2-2: Fire Chief; Appointment And Duties
5-2-3: Rulemaking Authority
5-2-4: Service Area
5-2-5: Chain Of Command
5-2-6: Compensation; Full Time Personnel
5-2-7: New Volunteer Members
5-2-8: Authority Of Chief At Fire Scene Generally
5-2-9: Duty To Respond To Fire Alarm
5-2-10: Custody, Repair Of Equipment
5-2-11: Restriction Of Persons Near Fire Scene
5-2-12: Removal Of Structures For Fire Control
5-2-13: Destruction Of Dangerous Buildings
5-2-14: Removal Of Utility Equipment; Disconnect Electric Current
5-2-15: Assistance To Areas Outside County, State
5-2-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION; DUTIES:
   A.   Composition: There is hereby established a Fire Department which shall
consist of a Fire Chief; paid full time officers, firefighters and support
staff; and volunteer officers, firefighters, and support staff. (2008 Code §
11-30; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Duties: The duties of the paid personnel shall be prescribed by the
position classification ordinance for each specific position. (2008 Code § 11-
30)
   C.   General Procedures: This chapter and the International Fire Code, as
amended and adopted, shall provide the general procedures of the Fire
Department. (2008 Code § 11-1; amd. Ord. 30-17, 8-1-2017)
5-2-2: FIRE CHIEF; APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES:
   A.   Appointment; Term: The Chief of the Fire Department shall be appointed
by the City Administrator. The Fire Chief shall be removed from his or her
position as Fire Chief in accordance with section
1-10-3 of this Code, and subject to the consent of a two-thirds (2/3) vote of
the Council. (Ord. 02-18, 1-16-2018)
   B.   General Authority: The Fire Chief shall supervise the Fire Department,
subject to the control of the Council. (2008 Code § 11-34)
   C.   Appointments By Chief: The full time positions shall be filled by
appointment by the Fire Chief from the list of persons for the specific
position duly certified by the Civil Service Commission. (2008 Code § 11-35)
   D.   Keep Records Of Members: The Fire Chief or Chief's designee shall keep
a correct record of all members of the Fire Department, the date of admission
and discharge, with compensation for services and amounts due each member.
(2008 Code § 11-42)
   E.   Annual Reports: The Chief shall provide a written annual report to the
Council. (2008 Code § 11-43)
5-2-3: RULEMAKING AUTHORITY:
   A.   Council: The Council may adopt such rules and regulations in regard to
the Fire Department, not inconsistent with the laws of the City or the laws of
the State, as the Council shall deem advisable. (2008 Code § 11-49)
   B.   Fire Department: The Fire Department may adopt such constitution, rules
and regulations, and policies and standard operating guidelines, not
inconsistent with the laws of the City or the laws of the State, as the members
deem advisable, but such constitution, rules and regulations, or changes in
such constitution, rules and regulations, before being effective, shall be
approved by the Council. (2008 Code § 11-50; amd. 2015 Code)
5-2-4: SERVICE AREA:
The Fire Department shall provide fire protection, fire prevention, rescue,
emergency medical services, hazardous materials and emergency services to all
areas within the corporate limits of the City of Bettendorf, and such other
areas as the City council shall, by Iowa Code chapter 28E agreement or
otherwise, authorize. (2008 Code § 11-31)
5-2-5: CHAIN OF COMMAND:
The fire chief shall have command of the department. After the fire chief, the
officers next in command shall be a career captain and then the career
lieutenants. In the absence of these fire officers, the next officer in rank,
whom the chief shall designate, shall assume command of the department. (2008
Code § 11-33; amd. 2015 Code)
5-2-6: COMPENSATION; FULL TIME PERSONNEL:
The compensation of the city full time fire department personnel shall be in
the amount fixed by the city council pay plan as collectively negotiated. (2008
Code § 11-36)
5-2-7: NEW VOLUNTEER MEMBERS:
   A.   Selection Of Volunteer Firefighters:
      1.   Selection of new volunteer members shall be governed by the
Bettendorf fire and rescue department's standard operating guidelines.
      2.   No volunteer shall be denied selection on the basis of race, creed,
age, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, national
origin, or disability except that they must meet the minimum agility
requirements. (2008 Code § 11-37; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Removal: The removal of volunteer members shall be governed by the
Bettendorf fire and rescue department's standard operating guidelines. (2008
Code § 11-38; amd. 2015 Code)
5-2-8: AUTHORITY OF CHIEF AT FIRE SCENE GENERALLY:
   A.   Authority:
      1.   The fire chief or his/her designee shall have command, control, and
direction of all members of the fire department, ambulance personnel, and of
all other persons, who may be present at fires, emergency medical calls, rescue
situations, or hazardous materials incidents.
      2.   The fire chief or his/her designee shall implement the incident
command system (ICS) on all responses upon arrival at the scene and shall be
designated the incident commander. If an incident involves multiple agency
response with multiple jurisdictional responsibilities, a unified command
structure will be implemented. Representatives of all involved agencies should
participate in the decision making process. The incident commander in a unified
command structure will be the individual with jurisdictional responsibility,
i.e., the police chief or his/her designee in a law enforcement related
incident. The incident commander may call upon any person at the incident scene
to assist firefighters in their duties, but no person who has not been trained
as a firefighter shall be placed in a situation wherein such person's physical
safety shall be endangered. (2008 Code § 11-39)
   B.   Refusal To Assist Firefighters: No person shall neglect or refuse to
assist the firefighters in their duties at any fire when called upon to do so
by the fire chief or incident commander. (2008 Code § 11-39; amd. 2015 Code)
5-2-9: DUTY TO RESPOND TO FIRE ALARM:
Upon an alarm of fire, the members of the fire department shall proceed
immediately to the place of fire with the necessary apparatus in their charge,
and there work and manage the fire under the direction of the chief or his
designee, and use the apparatus in the most effective manner until the fire is
extinguished, and they shall not move therefrom, except by permission of the
officer in command. (2008 Code § 11-40)
5-2-10: CUSTODY, REPAIR OF EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Control Of Buildings And Equipment: The fire chief or chief's designee
shall have general supervision and control of all buildings used by the fire
department and of all vehicles, equipment, or apparatus used by the fire
department.
   B.   Condition; Repair: The fire chief shall carefully examine the condition
of all such property and see that it is at all times in good repair and good
condition and report to the council any alteration or addition required, and
shall, with the consent of the council, cause all necessary repairs to be made
without delay. (2008 Code § 11-41)
5-2-11: RESTRICTION OF PERSONS NEAR FIRE SCENE:
The fire chief may prescribe the limits in the vicinity of the fire within
which no person, except members of the fire department or police force, and
those admitted by him or his designee, may come. (2008 Code § 11-44; amd. 2015
Code)
5-2-12: REMOVAL OF STRUCTURES FOR FIRE CONTROL:
The fire chief has power when he shall find that it has become necessary to
check or control any fire, to order any fence, building or erection of any kind
to be cut down and removed. (2008 Code § 11-45)
5-2-13: DESTRUCTION OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS:
The fire chief has the power, with the consent of the council, and after
providing notice and opportunity to the owner to be heard, to tear down any
portion of any building that may be standing after a fire, which they shall
find may be dangerous to persons or property. (2008 Code § 11-46)
5-2-14: REMOVAL OF UTILITY EQUIPMENT; DISCONNECT ELECTRIC CURRENT:
   A.   Authority Of Chief: In case of fire or other emergencies, poles, wires
and street fixtures may be cut and removed, or the electrical current may be
cut off by order of the fire chief without any liability or expense on the part
of the city or the fire chief.
   B.   Notice: If it is possible to do so, the owner of the utility or
property affected, or employees in charge, shall be previously notified of the
necessity of removing the poles, wires and fixtures or of cutting off the
electrical current. (2008 Code § 11-47)
5-2-15: ASSISTANCE TO AREAS OUTSIDE COUNTY, STATE:
The firefighting equipment and firefighters of the city may respond to any call
for firefighting or other emergency assistance pursuant to mutual aid
agreements. (2008 Code § 11-48; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 3
CIVIL RIGHTS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them, unless the context otherwise requires:
COMMISSION: The Bettendorf human rights commission created in title 2, chapter
5 of this code.
COMMISSIONER: A member of the commission.
COURT: The district court in and for any judicial district of the state of Iowa
or any judge of the court if the court is not in session at that time.
COVERED MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING: Any of the following:
   A.   A building consisting of four (4) or more dwelling units if the
building has one or more elevators.
   B.   The ground floor units of a building consisting of four (4) or more
dwelling units.
DISABILITY: The physical or mental condition of a person which constitutes a
substantial disability, and the condition of a person with a positive human
immunodeficiency virus test result, a diagnosis of acquired immune deficiency
syndrome, a diagnosis of acquired immune deficiency syndrome related complex,
or any other condition related to acquired immune deficiency syndrome. The
inclusion of a condition related to a positive human immunodeficiency virus
test result in the meaning of "disability" under the provisions of this chapter
does not preclude the application of the provisions of this chapter to
conditions resulting from other contagious or infectious diseases.
EMPLOYEE: Any person employed by an employer.
EMPLOYER: The city of Bettendorf or any political subdivision, board,
commission, department, public or private educational institution, or school
district therein, and every other person or entity employing employees within
the state.
EMPLOYMENT AGENCY: Any person undertaking to procure employees or opportunities
to work for any other person or any person holding itself to be equipped to do
so.
FAMILIAL STATUS:
   A.   One or more individuals under the age of eighteen (18) domiciled with
one of the following:
      1.   A parent or another person having legal custody of the individual or
individuals.
      2.   The designee of the parent or the other person having custody of the
individual or individuals, with the written permission of the parent or other
person.
      3.   A person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing legal
custody of the individual or individuals.
   B.   "Familial status" also means a person who is pregnant or who is in the
process of securing legal custody of an individual who has not attained the age
of eighteen (18) years.
FAMILY: Any individual and/or partner and the lineal ascendants and descendants
of either who live in the same household.
GENDER IDENTITY: A gender related identity of a person, regardless of the
person's assigned sex at birth.
LABOR ORGANIZATION: Any organization which exists for the purpose in whole or
in part of collective bargaining, of dealing with employers concerning
grievances, terms, or conditions of employment, or of other mutual aid or
protection in connection with employment.
PERSON: One or more individuals, partnerships, associations, corporations,
legal representatives, trustees, receivers, and the state of Iowa and all
political subdivisions and agencies thereof.
PERSON CHARGED: A person who is alleged to have committed an act prohibited by
this chapter, against whom a charge or complaint has been filed, as provided by
this chapter.
PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION:
   A.   Each and every place, establishment, or facility of whatever kind,
nature, or class that caters or offers services, facilities, or goods for a fee
or charge to nonmembers of any organization or association utilizing the place,
establishment, or facility; provided, that any place, establishment, or
facility that caters or offers services, facilities, or goods to the nonmembers
gratuitously shall be deemed a public accommodation if the accommodation
receives governmental support or subsidy.
   B.   "Public accommodation" shall not mean any bona fide private club or
other place, establishment, or facility which is by its nature distinctly
private, except when such distinctly private place, establishment, or facility
caters or offers services, facilities, or goods to the nonmembers for fee or
charge or gratuitously, it shall be deemed a public accommodation during such
period.
   C.   "Public accommodation" includes each state and local government unit or
tax supported district of whatever kind, nature, or class that offers services,
facilities, benefits, grants or goods to the public, gratuitously or otherwise.
This paragraph shall not be construed by negative implication or otherwise to
restrict any part or portion of the preexisting definition of the term "public
accommodation".
SEXUAL ORIENTATION: Actual or history of, or perceived heterosexuality,
homosexuality, or bisexuality.
UNFAIR PRACTICE OR DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICE: Those practices specified as unfair
or discriminatory in article A of this chapter. (2008 Code § 8-1; amd. 2015
Code)
ARTICLE A. UNFAIR AND DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES
SECTION:
5-3A-1: Aiding, Abetting Or Retaliation
5-3A-2: Interference, Coercion Or Intimidation
5-3A-3: Accommodations Or Services
5-3A-4: Unfair Employment Practices
5-3A-5: Housing
5-3A-5-1: Unfair Or Discriminatory Practices
5-3A-5-2: Additional Unfair Or Discriminatory Practices
5-3A-5-3: Exceptions
5-3A-6: Education, Unfair Or Discriminatory Practices
5-3A-7: Unfair Credit Practices
5-3A-8: Age Discrimination; Exception For Retirement Plans, Abortion Coverage,
Health Benefits
5-3A-9: Disability; Exception For Promotion Or Transfer
5-3A-1: AIDING, ABETTING OR RETALIATION:
It shall be an unfair or discriminatory practice for:
   A.   Any person to intentionally aid, abet, compel, or coerce another person
to engage in any of the practices declared unfair or discriminatory by this
article.
   B.   Any person to discriminate or retaliate against another person in any
of the rights protected against discrimination by this article because such
person has lawfully opposed any practice forbidden under this article, obeys
the provisions of this article, or has filed a complaint, testified, or
assisted in any proceeding under this article. (2008 Code § 8-30)
5-3A-2: INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION:
It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, on account of the person having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of the person having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by this article. (2008 Code § 8-31)
5-3A-3: ACCOMMODATIONS OR SERVICES:
   A.   Unfair Practices: It shall be an unfair or discriminatory practice for
any owner, lessee, sublessee, proprietor, manager, or superintendent of any
public accommodation or any agent or employee thereof:
      1.   To refuse or deny to any person because of race, creed, color, sex,
gender identity, national origin, familial status, religion, disability or
sexual orientation the accommodations, advantages, facilities, services, or
privileges thereof, or otherwise to discriminate against any person because of
race, creed, color, sex, gender identity, national origin, familial status,
religion, disability or sexual orientation in the furnishing of such
accommodations, advantages, facilities, services, or privileges.
      2.   To directly or indirectly advertise, or in any other manner indicate
or publicize that the patronage of persons of any particular race, creed,
color, sex, gender identity, national origin, familial status, religion,
disability or sexual orientation is unwelcome, objectionable, not acceptable,
or not solicited.
   B.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to:
      1.   Any bona fide religious institution with respect to any
qualifications the institution may impose based on religion, sexual orientation
or gender identity when such qualifications are related to a bona fide
religious purpose.
      2.   The rental or leasing to transient individuals of less than six (6)
rooms within a single housing accommodation by the occupant or owner of such
housing accommodation if the occupant or owner or members of that person's
family reside therein. (2008 Code § 8-41; amd. 2015 Code)
5-3A-4: UNFAIR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES:
   A.   Unfair Practices: It shall be an unfair or discriminatory practice for
any:
      1.   Person to refuse to hire, accept, register, classify, upgrade or
refer for employment, to discharge any employee, or to otherwise discriminate
in employment against any applicant for employment or any employee because of
the age, race, creed, color, sex, gender identity, national origin, religion,
disability or sexual orientation of such applicant or employee, unless based
upon the nature of the occupation. If a person with a disability is qualified
to perform a particular occupation, by reason of training or experience, the
nature of that occupation shall not be the basis for exception to the unfair or
discriminating practices prohibited by this subsection.
      2.   Labor organization or the employees, agents, or members thereof to
refuse to admit to membership any applicant, to expel any member, or to
otherwise discriminate against any applicant for membership or any member in
the privileges, rights, or benefits of such membership because of the age,
race, creed, color, sex, gender identity, national origin, religion, disability
or sexual orientation of such applicant or member.
      3.   Employer, employment agency, labor organization, or the employees,
agents, or members thereof to directly or indirectly advertise or in any other
manner indicate or publicize that individuals of any particular age, race,
creed, color, sex, gender identity, national origin, religion, disability or
sexual orientation are unwelcome, objectionable, not acceptable, or not
solicited for employment or membership unless based on the nature of the
occupation. If a person with a disability is qualified to perform a particular
occupation by reason of training or experience, the nature of that occupation
shall not be the basis for exception to the unfair or discriminating practices
prohibited by this subsection. An employer, employment agency, or their
employees, servants, or agents may offer employment or advertise for employment
to only persons with disabilities, when other applicants have available to them
other employment compatible with their ability which would not be available to
persons with disabilities because of their disabilities. Any such employment or
offer of employment shall not discriminate among persons with disabilities on
the basis of race, color, creed, sex, gender identity, national origin or
sexual orientation.
      4.   Person to solicit or require as a condition of employment of any
employee or prospective employee a test for the presence of the antibody to the
human immunodeficiency virus or to affect the terms, conditions, or privileges
of employment or terminate the employment of any employee solely as a result of
the employee obtaining a test for the presence of the antibody to the human
immunodeficiency virus. An agreement between an employer, employment agency,
labor organization, or their employees, agents, or members and an employee or
prospective employee concerning employment, pay, or benefits to an employee or
prospective employee in return for taking a test for the presence of the
antibody to the human immunodeficiency virus, is prohibited. The prohibitions
of this subsection A4 do not apply if the state epidemiologist determines and
the state director of public health declares through the utilization of
guidelines established by the center for disease control of the United States
department of health and human services, that a person with a condition related
to acquired immune deficiency syndrome poses a significant risk of transmission
of the human immunodeficiency virus to other persons in a specific occupation.
(2008 Code § 8-53; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Pregnancy And Childbirth: Employment policies relating to pregnancy and
childbirth shall be governed by the following:
      1.   A written or unwritten employment policy or practice which excludes
from employment applicants or employees because of the employee's pregnancy is
a prima facie violation of this article.
      2.   Disabilities caused or contributed to by the employee's pregnancy,
miscarriage, childbirth, and recovery therefrom are, for all job related
purposes, temporary disabilities and shall be treated as such under any health
or temporary disability insurance or sick leave plan available in connection
with employment. Written and unwritten employment policies and practices
involving matters such as the commencement and duration of leave, the
availability of extensions, the accrual of seniority, and other benefits and
privileges, reinstatement, and payment under any health or temporary disability
insurance or sick leave plan, formal or informal, shall be applied to a
disability due to the employee's pregnancy or giving birth, on the same terms
and conditions as they are applied to other temporary disabilities.
      3.   Disabilities caused or contributed to by legal abortion and recovery
therefrom are, for all job related purposes, temporary disabilities and shall
be treated as such under any temporary disability or sick leave plan available
in connection with employment. Written and unwritten employment policies and
practices involving matters such as the commencement and duration of leave, the
availability of extensions, the accrual of seniority, and other benefits and
privileges, reinstatement, and payment under any temporary disability insurance
or sick leave plan, formal or informal, shall be applied to a disability due to
legal abortion on the same terms and conditions as they are applied to other
temporary disabilities. The employer may elect to exclude health insurance
coverage for abortion from a plan provided by the employer, except where the
life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term or
where medical complications have arisen from an abortion.
      4.   An employer shall not terminate the employment of a person disabled
by pregnancy because of the employee's pregnancy.
      5.   Where a leave is not available or a sufficient leave is not
available under any health or temporary disability insurance or sick leave plan
available in connection with employment, the employer of the pregnant employee
shall not refuse to grant to the employee who is disabled by the pregnancy a
leave of absence if the leave of absence is for the period that the employee is
disabled because of the employee's pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions, or for eight (8) weeks, whichever is less. However, the employee
must provide timely notice of the period of leave requested and the employer
must approve any change in the period requested before the change is effective.
Before granting the leave of absence, the employer may require that the
employee's disability resulting from pregnancy be verified by medical
certification stating that the employee is not able to reasonably perform the
duties of employment.
   C.   Age:
      1.   This section shall not prohibit discrimination on the basis of age
if the person subject to the discrimination is under the age of eighteen (18)
years, unless that person is considered by law to be an adult.
      2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, a state or federal
program designed to benefit a specific age classification which serves a bona
fide public purpose shall be permissible.
      3.   This section shall not apply to age discrimination in bona fide
apprenticeship employment programs if the employee is over forty five (45)
years of age.
   D.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to:
      1.   Any employer who regularly employs less than four (4) individuals.
For purposes of this subsection D1, individuals who are members of the
employer's family shall not be counted as employees.
      2.   The employment of individuals for work within the home of the
employer if the employer or members of the employer's family reside therein
during such employment.
      3.   The employment of individuals to render personal service to the
person of the employer or members of the employer's family.
      4.   Any bona fide religious institution or its educational facility,
association, corporation, or society with respect to any qualifications for
employment based on religion when such qualifications are related to a bona
fide religious purpose. A religious qualification for instructional personnel
or an administrative officer, serving in a supervisory capacity of a bona fide
religious educational facility or religious institution, shall be presumed to
be a bona fide occupational qualification. (2008 Code § 8-53)
5-3A-5: HOUSING:
5-3A-5-1: UNFAIR OR DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES:
It shall be an unfair or discriminatory practice for any person, owner, or
person acting for an owner, of rights to housing or real property, with or
without compensation, including, but not limited to, persons licensed as real
estate brokers or salespersons, attorneys, auctioneers, agents or
representatives by power of attorney or appointment, or any person acting under
court order, deed of trust, or will: (2008 Code § 8-60)
   A.   To refuse to sell, rent, lease, assign, sublease, refuse to negotiate,
or to otherwise make unavailable, or deny any real property or housing
accommodation or part, portion or interest therein, to any person because of
the race, color, creed, sex, gender identity, religion, national origin,
disability, familial status or sexual orientation of such person.
   B.   To discriminate against any person because of the person's race, color,
creed, sex, gender identity, religion, national origin, disability, familial
status or sexual orientation, in the terms, conditions or privileges of the
sale, rental, lease, assignment or sublease of any real property or housing
accommodation or any part, portion or interest in the real property or housing
accommodation or in the provision of services or facilities in connection with
the real property or housing accommodation. For purposes of this section,
"person" means one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in cases under title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   C.   To directly or indirectly advertise, or in any other manner indicate or
publicize that the purchase, rental, lease, assignment, or sublease of any real
property or housing accommodation or any part, portion or interest therein, by
persons of any particular race, color, creed, sex, gender identity, religion,
national origin, disability, familial status or sexual orientation is
unwelcome, objectionable, not acceptable or not solicited.
   D.   To discriminate against the lessee or purchaser of any real property or
housing accommodation or part, portion or interest of the real property or
housing accommodation, or against any prospective lessee or purchaser of the
property or accommodation, because of the race, color, creed, religion, sex,
gender identity, disability, age, national origin or sexual orientation of
persons who may from time to time be present in or on the lessee's or owner's
premises for lawful purposes at the invitation of the lessee or owner as
friends, guests, visitors, relatives or in any similar capacity. (2008 Code §
8-60; amd. 2015 Code)
5-3A-5-2: ADDITIONAL UNFAIR OR DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES:
   A.   Inducement Prohibited: A person shall not induce or attempt to induce
another person to sell or rent a dwelling by representations regarding the
entry or prospective entry into a neighborhood of a person of a particular
race, color, creed, sex, gender identity, religion, national origin,
disability, familial status or sexual orientation.
   B.   Availability Denial Prohibited: A person shall not represent to a
person of a particular race, color, creed, sex, gender identity, religion,
national origin, disability, familial status or sexual orientation that a
dwelling is not available for inspection, sale, or rental when the dwelling is
available for inspection, sale, or rental. (2008 Code § 8-61; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   Disability Discrimination:
      1.   A person shall not discriminate in the sale or rental or otherwise
make unavailable or deny a dwelling to a buyer or renter because of a
disability of any of the following persons:
         a.   That buyer or renter.
         b.   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is sold, rented, or made available.
         c.   A person associated with that buyer or renter.
      2.   A person shall not discriminate against another person in the terms,
conditions, or privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision
of services or facilities in connection with the dwelling because of a
disability of any of the following persons:
         a.   That person.
         b.   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is sold, rented, or made available.
         c.   A person associated with that person.
      3.   For the purposes of this subsection C only, discrimination includes
any of the following circumstances:
         a.   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the person with a
disability, reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be
occupied by the person if the modifications are necessary to afford the person
full enjoyment of the premises. In the case of a rental, a landlord may, where
reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification on the renter's
agreement to restore the interior of the premises to the condition that existed
before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted.
         b.   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services, when the accommodations are necessary to afford the
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling.
         c.   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after January 1, 1992, a failure to design
and construct those dwellings in a manner that meets the following
requirements:
            (1)   The public use and common use portions of the dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities.
            (2)   All doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by persons
with disabilities in wheelchairs.
            (3)   All premises within the dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               (A)   An accessible route into and through the dwelling.
               (B)   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations.
               (C)   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later
installation of grab bars.
               (D)   Usable kitchens and bathrooms so that a person in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
            (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the American
national standard for buildings and facilities providing accessibility and
usability for persons with disabilities, commonly cited as "ANSI A117.1",
satisfies the requirements of subsection C3c(3) of this section.
            (5)   Nothing in this subsection C requires that a dwelling be made
available to a person whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the
health or safety of other persons or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others. (2008 Code § 8-61)
   D.   Residential Real Estate Related Transaction:
      1.   A person whose business includes engaging in residential real estate
related transactions shall not discriminate against a person in making a
residential real estate related transaction available or in terms or conditions
of a residential real estate related transaction because of race, color, creed,
sex, gender identity, religion, national origin, disability, familial status or
sexual orientation.
      2.   For the purpose of this subsection D, "residential real estate
related transaction" means any of the following:
         a.   To make or purchase loans or provide other financial assistance
to purchase, construct, improve, repair, or maintain a dwelling, or to secure
residential real estate.
         b.   To sell, broker, or appraise residential real estate.
   E.   Denial Of Membership Prohibited: A person shall not deny another person
access to, or membership or participation in, a multiple listing service, real
estate brokers' organization or other service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings, or discriminate
against a person in terms or conditions of access, membership, or participation
in such organization because of race, color, creed, sex, gender identity,
religion, national origin, disability, familial status or sexual orientation.
(2008 Code § 8-61; amd. 2015 Code)
5-3A-5-3: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Exceptions Enumerated: The provisions of sections
5-3A-5-1 and
5-3A-5-2 of this chapter shall not apply to:
      1.   Any bona fide religious institution with respect to any
qualifications it may impose based on religion, sexual orientation or gender
identity when the qualifications are related to a bona fide religious purpose
unless the religious institution owns or operates property for a commercial
purpose or membership in the religion is restricted on account of race, color,
or national origin. (2008 Code § 8-62; amd. 2015 Code)
      2.   The rental or leasing of a dwelling in a building which contains
housing accommodations for not more than two (2) families living independently
of each other, if the owner resides in one of the housing accommodations.
      3.   The rental or leasing of less than four (4) rooms within a single
dwelling by the occupant or owner of the dwelling, if the occupant or owner
resides in the dwelling.
      4.   Discrimination on the basis of familial status involving dwellings
provided under any state or federal program specifically designed and operated
to assist elderly persons, as defined in the state or federal program that the
commission determines to be consistent with determinations made by the United
States secretary of housing and urban development, and housing for older
persons. As used in this subsection, "housing for older persons" means housing
communities consisting of dwellings intended for either of the following:
         a.   For eighty percent (80%) occupancy by at least one person fifty
five (55) years of age or older per unit, and providing significant facilities
and services specifically designed to meet the physical or social needs of the
persons and the housing facility must publish and adhere to policies and
procedures which demonstrate an intent by the owner or manager to provide
housing for persons fifty five (55) years of age or older.
         b.   For and occupied solely by persons sixty two (62) years of age or
older.
      5.   The rental or leasing of a housing accommodation in a building which
contains housing accommodations for not more than four (4) families living
independently of each other, if the owner resides in one of the housing
accommodations for which the owner qualifies for the homestead tax credit under
Iowa Code section 425.1.
      6.   Discrimination on the basis of sex involving the rental, leasing, or
subleasing of a dwelling within which residents of both sexes would be forced
to share a living area.
   B.   Advertising: The exceptions to the requirements of sections
5-3A-5-1 and
5-3A-5-2 of this chapter provided for dwellings specified in subsections A2, A3
and A5 of this section do not apply to advertising related to those dwellings.
(2008 Code § 8-62)
   C.   Persons Furnishing Real Estate Appraisals: Section
5-3A-5-2 of this chapter and subsections A and B of this section do not
prohibit a person engaged in the business of furnishing appraisals of real
estate from taking into consideration factors other than race, color, creed,
sex, gender identity, religion, national origin, disability, familial status or
sexual orientation in appraising real estate. (2008 Code § 8-63; amd. 2015
Code)
5-3A-6: EDUCATION, UNFAIR OR DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES:
   A.   Unfair Practices: It is an unfair or discriminatory practice for any
educational institution to discriminate on the basis of race, creed, color,
sex, gender identity, national origin, religion, disability or sexual
orientation in any program or activity. Such discriminatory practices shall
include, but not be limited to, the following practices: (2008 Code § 8-64;
amd. 2015 Code)
      1.   Exclusion of a person or persons from participation in, denial of
the benefits of, or subjection to discrimination in any academic,
extracurricular, research, occupational training, or other program or activity
except athletic programs.
      2.   Denial of comparable opportunity in intramural and interscholastic
athletic programs.
      3.   Discrimination among persons in employment and the conditions of
employment.
      4.   On the basis of sex, the application of any rule concerning the
actual or potential parental, family or marital status of a person, or the
exclusion of any person from any program or activity or employment because of
pregnancy or related conditions dependent upon the physician's diagnosis and
certification.
   B.   Definition; Exceptions:
      1.   For the purpose of this section, "educational institution" includes
any preschool, elementary, secondary, or community college, area education
agency, or postsecondary college or university and their governing boards.
(2008 Code § 8-64)
      2.   This section does not prohibit an educational institution from
maintaining separate toilet facilities, locker rooms or living facilities for
the different sexes so long as comparable facilities are provided. Nothing in
this section shall be construed as prohibiting any bona fide religious
institution from imposing qualifications based on religion, sexual orientation
or gender identity when such qualifications are related to a bona fide
religious purpose or any institution from admitting students of only one sex.
(2008 Code § 8-64; amd. 2015 Code)
5-3A-7: UNFAIR CREDIT PRACTICES:
It shall be an unfair or discriminatory practice for any:
   A.   Creditor to refuse to enter into a consumer credit transaction or
impose finance charges or other terms or conditions more onerous than those
regularly extended by that creditor to consumers of similar economic
backgrounds because of age, color, creed, national origin, race, religion,
marital status, sex, gender identity, physical disability, familial status or
sexual orientation.
   B.   Person authorized or licensed to do business in this state pursuant to
Iowa Code chapters 524, 533, 536, or 536A to refuse to loan or extend credit or
to impose terms or conditions more onerous than those regularly extended to
persons of similar economic backgrounds because of age, color, creed, national
origin, race, religion, marital status, sex, gender identity, physical
disability, familial status or sexual orientation.
   C.   Creditor to refuse to offer credit life or health and accident
insurance because of color, creed, national origin, race, religion, marital
status, age, physical disability, sex, gender identity, familial status or
sexual orientation. Refusal by a creditor to offer credit life or health and
accident insurance based upon the age or physical disability of the consumer
shall not be an unfair or discriminatory practice if such denial is based
solely upon bona fide underwriting considerations not prohibited by Iowa Code
title XIII, subtitle 1. The provisions of this section shall not be construed
by negative implication or otherwise to narrow or restrict any other provisions
of this article. (2008 Code § 8-65; amd. 2015 Code)
5-3A-8: AGE DISCRIMINATION; EXCEPTIONS FOR RETIREMENT PLANS, ABORTION COVERAGE,
HEALTH BENEFITS:
The provisions of this article relating to discrimination because of age do not
apply to a retirement plan or benefit system of an employer unless the plan or
system is a mere subterfuge adopted for the purpose of evading this article.
   A.   However, a retirement plan or benefit system shall not require the
involuntary retirement of a person under the age of seventy (70) because of
that person's age. This subsection does not prohibit the following:
      1.   The involuntary retirement of a person who has attained the age of
sixty five (65) and has for the two (2) prior years been employed in a bona
fide executive or high policymaking position and who is entitled to an
immediate, nonforfeitable annual retirement benefit from a pension, profit
sharing, savings or deferred compensation plan of the employer which equals
twenty seven thousand dollars ($27,000.00). This retirement benefit test may be
adjusted according to the regulations prescribed by the United States secretary
of labor pursuant to public law 95-256, section 3.
      2.   The involuntary retirement of a person covered by a collective
bargaining agreement which was entered into by a labor organization and was in
effect on September 1, 1977. This exemption does not apply after the
termination of that agreement or January 1, 1980, whichever first occurs.
   B.   A health insurance program provided by an employer may exclude coverage
of abortion, except where the life of the mother would be endangered if the
fetus were carried to term or where medical complications have arisen from an
abortion.
   C.   An employee welfare plan may provide life, disability or health
insurance benefits which vary by age based on actuarial differences if the
employer contributes equally for all the participating employees or may provide
for employer contributions differing by age if the benefits for all the
participating employees do not vary by age. (2008 Code § 8-70)
5-3A-9: DISABILITY; EXCEPTION FOR PROMOTION OR TRANSFER:
After a person with a disability is employed, the employer shall not be
required under this article to promote or transfer the person to another job or
occupation unless, prior to the transfer, the person with the disability, by
training or experience, is qualified for the job or occupation. Any collective
bargaining agreement between an employer and labor organization shall contain
this section as part of the agreement. (2008 Code § 8-71)
ARTICLE B. COMPLAINT PROCESS; ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
5-3B-1: Filing Of Complaint
5-3B-2: State And Local Complaints, Processing
5-3B-3: Time Limit For Filing Complaint
5-3B-4: Investigation Of Complaint; Procedure
5-3B-5: Dismissal For No Probable Cause Of Violation
5-3B-6: Agreement In Mediation
5-3B-7: Proceedings Before Commission; Judicial Review Of Decisions
5-3B-8: Power Of Commission Upon Finding Of Violation
5-3B-9: Administrative Release
5-3B-10: Use Of Administrative Law Judge Or Other Party
5-3B-1: FILING OF COMPLAINT:
   A.   Any person claiming to be a victim or a person who observes or has
knowledge of a practice which is a violation of article A of this chapter may
personally or through counsel, sign and file a complaint.
   B.   The commission or a member of the commission may in like manner make,
sign and file a charge on behalf of the person aggrieved.
   C.   Any place of public accommodation, employer, labor organization, or
other person who has any employees or members who refuse or threaten to refuse
to comply with the provisions of article A of this chapter may in like manner
make, sign and file such charge. (2008 Code § 8-72)
   D.   The complaint shall be filed in the office of the city clerk. (2008
Code § 8-74)
5-3B-2: STATE AND LOCAL COMPLAINTS, PROCESSING:
   A.   Sufficiency Of Complaint Filed With State Commission As Complaint
Before City Commission: A complaint shall be filed on complaint forms located
in the office of the city clerk. A complainant may file with the state of Iowa,
and pursuant to agreement with the state, the commission shall have
jurisdiction to receive, investigate, and resolve any complaint filed with the
state and referred to the commission by it for processing if the subject matter
of the complaint is within the jurisdiction of the commission. (2008 Code § 8-
73)
   B.   Notice Of Complaint To State Commission: All complaints filed with the
commission shall be cross filed with the state for its reference, but shall be
processed by the commission. (2008 Code § 8-76)
5-3B-3: TIME LIMIT FOR FILING COMPLAINT:
Any complaint filed under this article shall be filed within one hundred eighty
(180) days after the most recent act constituting the alleged discriminatory or
unfair practice, or the commission shall be without jurisdiction to investigate
the matter. This limitation shall affect claims under this chapter only;
complainants are free to pursue other forums as appropriate. (2008 Code § 8-75)
5-3B-4: INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINT; PROCEDURE:
Upon the filing of a complaint, the complaint shall be reviewed for
jurisdictional sufficiency. If there exists jurisdiction, the complainant and
respondent shall be offered the opportunity to mediate the matter. This offer
of mediation shall be deemed ongoing, and, upon agreement of the parties, may
be implemented at any stage of the proceeding. If either party declines, the
complaint shall be investigated and a report prepared. The report shall
determine if probable cause exists to believe a violation has occurred. The
report shall be brought before the commission for final action. (2008 Code § 8-
77)
5-3B-5: DISMISSAL FOR NO PROBABLE CAUSE OF VIOLATION:
Upon a determination that jurisdiction does not exist, or that there is no
probable cause to proceed, the matter shall be referred to the commission with
a recommendation of dismissal. The commission, at its next regularly scheduled
meeting, shall consider the matter and vote on the request to dismiss. If
granted, the file will be closed and the state and complainant notified of the
dismissal. (2008 Code § 8-78)
5-3B-6: AGREEMENT IN MEDIATION:
If the parties reach agreement in mediation, the agreement shall be reduced to
writing and made a part of the file. The matter shall be reported to the
commission as finalized by mediation, and the file shall be closed. The
commission shall retain jurisdiction and continue the process in the event the
agreement is not finalized. (2008 Code § 8-79)
5-3B-7: PROCEEDINGS BEFORE COMMISSION; JUDICIAL REVIEW OF DECISIONS:
   A.   Upon notification that probable cause exists and that mediation was not
successful, the commission shall schedule a time and place to hear the
complaint. Opportunity shall be afforded all parties to respond and present
evidence and argument on all issues involved and to be represented by counsel
at their own expense.
   B.   Oral proceedings shall be open to the public and shall be recorded
either by mechanized means or by certified shorthand reporters. Oral
proceedings or any part thereof shall be transcribed at the request of any
party with the expense of the transcription charged to the requesting party.
The recording or stenographic notes of oral proceedings or the transcription
thereof shall be filed with and maintained by the commission for at least five
(5) years from the date of decision.
   C.   Irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence should be
excluded. A finding shall be based upon the kind of evidence on which
reasonably prudent persons are accustomed to rely for the conduct of their
serious affairs, and may be based upon such evidence even if it would be
inadmissible in a jury trial. The commission shall give effect to the rules of
privilege recognized by law. Objections to evidentiary offers may be made and
shall be noted in the record. Subject to these requirements, when a hearing
will be expedited and the interests of the parties will not be prejudiced
substantially, any part of the evidence may be required to be submitted in
verified written form.
   D.   Documentary evidence may be received in the form of copies or excerpts,
if the original is not readily available. Upon request, parties shall be given
an opportunity to compare the copy with the original, if available.
   E.   Witnesses at the hearing, or persons whose testimony has been submitted
in written form if available, shall be subject to cross examination by any
party as necessary for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
   F.   The commission's experience, technical competence, and specialized
knowledge may be utilized in the evaluation of the evidence.
   G.   Unless an administrative law judge or other party is appointed to hear
the matter, the commission shall hear the matter and prepare a written
decision, which shall be deemed final action. The decision shall include
findings of fact and conclusions of law, separately stated. The decision shall
include an explanation of why the relevant evidence in the record supports each
material finding of fact.
   H.   A person or party who has exhausted all adequate administrative
remedies and who is aggrieved or adversely affected by any final commission
action is entitled to judicial review thereof. Within thirty (30) days after
filing of the petition, or within further time allowed by the court, the
commission shall transmit to the reviewing court the original or a certified
copy of the entire record of any contested case which may be the subject of the
petition. By stipulation of all parties to the review proceedings, the record
of such a case may be shortened. A party unreasonably refusing to stipulate to
limit the record may be taxed by the court for the additional costs. The court
may require or permit subsequent corrections or additions to the record.
   I.   In proceedings for judicial review of commission action, a court may
hear and consider such evidence as it deems appropriate. In proceedings for
judicial review of commission action in a contested case, however, a court
shall not itself hear any further evidence with respect to those issues of fact
whose determination was entrusted by statute to the commission in that
contested case proceeding. Before the date set for hearing a petition for
judicial review of commission action in a contested case, application may be
made to the court for leave to present evidence in addition to that found in
the record of the case. If it is shown to the satisfaction of the court that
the additional evidence is material and that there were good reasons for
failure to present it in the contested case proceeding before the commission,
the court may order that the additional evidence be taken.
   J.   The court may affirm the commission action and require the commission's
award be followed, or remand to the commission for further proceedings. The
court may also reverse, modify, or grant other appropriate relief from
commission action, including equitable or legal and declaratory relief.
   K.   In construction of the powers and duties listed in this section, the
commission and any reviewing court shall be guided by the procedures and
practices of administrative agencies as listed in Iowa Code chapter 17A. (2008
Code § 8-80)
5-3B-8: POWER OF COMMISSION UPON FINDING OF VIOLATION:
The commission, upon a finding of violation of this chapter, may award the
person aggrieved appropriate remedy, including, but not limited to, reinstate
to work, monetary damages, and/or as appropriate, punitive damages. The
commission may also issue an injunction directing the violator to cease and
desist from any future violations of this chapter. If necessary, the commission
may seek enforcement of its orders through the courts of the state of Iowa.
(2008 Code § 8-81)
5-3B-9: ADMINISTRATIVE RELEASE:
Due to staff limitations or other factors, not all cases may be resolved within
a short period. Upon the sixty first day after filing the complaint, or at any
time thereafter until the board makes a final determination, the complainant
may request the matter be administratively closed. A closure under this section
shall be without finding by the commission, and shall constitute the equivalent
of a right to sue letter under state or federal law. (2008 Code § 8-82)
5-3B-10: USE OF ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE OR OTHER PARTY:
   A.   When, in the opinion of the commission, scheduling would make it
difficult for the commission to hear a contested case, and after a finding of
probable cause has been made, the commission may assign the matter to be heard
by an administrative law judge or other appropriate party. The decision of the
administrative law judge or other party shall be given to the commission. The
commission may schedule a time for arguments by the parties, but shall not
routinely hear additional evidence. If, after hearing the parties' arguments,
three (3) of the commissioners believe the matter should be investigated
further, the decision of the administrative law judge or other party shall not
be adopted, but a further hearing shall be set to take evidence on the matter.
Upon the conclusion of such hearing and after deliberation, the commission
shall affirm or reverse the decision of the administrative law judge or other
party. Cost of such hearing(s) shall be borne by the commission.
   B.   Selection of the administrative judge or other party shall be by vote
of the commission. (2008 Code § 8-83)
CHAPTER 4
BURGLAR ALARMS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Police Chief Prescribe Standards
5-4-3: Audible Signal Alarm Requirements
5-4-4: Automatic Dialing Devices
5-4-5: Police Alarms
5-4-6: Responsibility For Alarm
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them:
ALARM BUSINESS: The business by any individual, partnership, or corporation
consisting of selling, leasing, maintaining, inspecting, servicing, repairing,
moving or installing any alarm system in or on any building, structure, or
facility.
ALARM SYSTEMS: Any mechanical or electrical device which is designed or used
for the detection of any unauthorized entry of a building, structure, or
facility or for alerting others of the commission of an unlawful act within a
building, structure, or facility, or both; and which emits a sound or transmits
a signal or message when actuated and to which police are expected to respond.
For purposes of this chapter, "alarm system" shall include the terms audible
alarm, automatic dialing device, burglar alarm system, and holdup alarm system.
ANSWERING SERVICE: A telephone answering business providing, among its
services, receiving on a continuous basis, through trained employees, emergency
signals from alarm systems and thereafter immediately relaying the message by
live voice over a single channel circuit to the communications center of the
police department.
AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE: An alarm system which automatically sends over
regular telephone lines, by direct connection or otherwise, a prerecorded voice
message or coded signal indicating the existence of the emergency situation
that the alarm system is designed to detect. Nothing contained herein shall be
construed to prohibit an automatic dialing device, manually initiated by a
person on the premises, in response to a bona fide medical or fire emergency.
FALSE ALARM: The intentional or unintentional activation of an alarm system
through mechanical failure, malfunction, improper installation, or the
negligence of the owner or lessee of an alarm system or of his employees or
agents which requires response by the Bettendorf police department where an
attempted or actual burglary or holdup does not exist. Such terminology does
not include, for example, alarms caused by tornadoes, earthquakes, or other
violent conditions. A "primary trunk line" means a telephone line leading into
the communications center of the police department that is for the purpose of
emergency calls on a person to person basis, in which line is identified by a
specific listing among the emergency numbers in a telephone directory. (2008
Code § 7.5-1)
5-4-2: POLICE CHIEF PRESCRIBE STANDARDS:
The chief of police may prescribe reasonable minimum standards and regulations
for the construction and maintenance of all alarm systems installed with direct
access to the police alarm display panel. (2008 Code § 7.5-2)
5-4-3: AUDIBLE SIGNAL ALARM REQUIREMENTS:
All alarm systems that emit an audible signal that may be heard by persons
outside the protected building, structure, or facility shall conform to the
following:
   A.   Every person maintaining an audible alarm shall provide to the chief of
police the name and telephone number of such person or persons who shall be
notified to render repairs or service and secure the premises during any hour
of the day or night when the alarm system is activated.
   B.   No person shall install an audible alarm system which creates a sound
similar to that of an emergency vehicle siren or civil defense warning system.
   C.   No person shall install an audible alarm which does not automatically
discontinue emitting an audible sound within one-half (1/2) hour after it is
activated.
   D.   With respect to systems in existence on the effective date hereof, the
owner thereof shall have ninety (90) days to effect necessary modifications to
comply with the requirements in this section. (2008 Code § 7.5-3)
5-4-4: AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICES:
No alarm system using an automatic dialing device shall send a prerecorded
voice message or coded signal over a primary trunk line or direct line into the
communications center of the police department. (2008 Code § 7.5-4)
5-4-5: POLICE ALARMS:
No alarm system designed to transmit a message on the police base radio
frequency will be allowed. Any police department owned systems are exempt from
this section. (2008 Code § 7.5-5; amd. 2015 Code)
5-4-6: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ALARM:
Every person who controls or owns an alarm system, of whatever nature, shall,
upon notification that the alarm system is giving a signal, proceed immediately
to the premises and render all necessary assistance to disengage the alarm
system. (2008 Code § 7.5-6)
CHAPTER 5
OFFENSES
ARTICLE A. OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
SECTION:
5-5A-1: Assault
5-5A-2: Harassment
5-5A-3: Assemblages On Public Property
5-5A-4: Weapons
5-5A-5: False Reports To Law Enforcement Authorities
5-5A-6: Disorderly Conduct
5-5A-7: Disorderly Houses
5-5A-8: Voyeurism
5-5A-9: Noise Limits From Certain Sound Sources
5-5A-1: ASSAULT 1 :
   A.   Assault Described: A person commits an assault when, without
justification, the person does any of the following:
      1.   Any act which is intended to cause pain or injury to, or which is
intended to result in physical contact which will be insulting or offensive to
another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
      2.   Any contact which is intended to place another in fear of immediate
physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting or offensive,
coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
      3.   Intentionally points any firearm toward another, or displays in a
threatening manner any dangerous weapon toward another. The term "dangerous
weapon", as used in this section, shall be as defined in section
5-5A-4 of this article.
   B.   Penalty: A person who commits an assault that does not cause or result
in serious bodily injury shall be subject to the general penalty provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2008 Code § 19-1)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 708.1 et seq.
5-5A-2: HARASSMENT 1 :
   A.   Persons:
      1.   A person commits harassment with intent to intimidate, annoy or
alarm another person when the person does any of the following: (2008 Code §
19-2)
         a.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, or via
electronic communication, or writing without legitimate purpose and in a manner
likely to cause the other person annoyance or harm. (2008 Code § 19-2; amd.
2015 Code)
         b.   Places any simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in
or near any building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or railroad car, or
boat occupied by such person.
         c.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another or to be
delivered to another without such other person's knowledge or consent.
         d.   Purposefully and without legitimate purpose, has personal contact
with another person, with the intent to threaten, intimidate, or alarm that
other person. As used in this section, unless the context otherwise requires,
"personal contact" means an encounter in which two (2) or more people are in
visual or physical proximity to each other. "Personal contact" does not require
a physical touching or oral communication, although it may include these types
of contacts. Harassment under this section is only such harassment which does
not constitute harassment in the first or second degree under Iowa Code section
708.7.
      2.   A person committing harassment shall be subject to the general
penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2008 Code § 19-2)
   B.   Public Officers And Employees 2 : Any person who wilfully prevents or
attempts to prevent any public officer or employee from performing the
officer's or employee's duty commits a simple misdemeanor. (2008 Code § 19-4)
 
Notes
1 2. IC § 708.7.
2 1. IC § 719.1.
5-5A-3: ASSEMBLAGES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Permit To Assemble Required: No person shall join or participate in any
assemblage, meeting, concert, procession or other display upon public ground
with the intent or effect of hindering the public's right of access to or use
thereof without written permit issued to a representative of the participants
thereof, issued by the mayor.
   B.   Time Limit: Any permit issued pursuant to this section must be
requested seventy two (72) hours in advance of the event, and no request for a
permit shall be unreasonably denied.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be subject to the
general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2008 Code § 19-3)
5-5A-4: WEAPONS:
   A.   Dangerous Weapons; Underage Persons:
      1.   Dangerous Weapon Defined: A dangerous weapon is any instrument or
device designed primarily for use in inflicting death or injury upon a human
being or animal, and which is capable of inflicting death upon a human being
when used in the manner for which it was designed, except a bow and arrow when
possessed and used for hunting or any other lawful purpose. Additionally, any
instrument or device of any sort whatsoever which is actually used in such a
manner as to indicate that the defendant intends to inflict death or serious
injury upon the other, and which, when so used, is capable of inflicting death
upon a human being, is a dangerous weapon. Dangerous weapons include, but are
not limited to, any offensive weapon, pistol, revolver or other firearm,
dagger, razor, stiletto, switchblade knife, knife having a blade exceeding five
inches (5") in length, or any portable device or weapon directing an electric
current, impulse, wave, or beam that produces a high voltage pulse designed to
immobilize a person.
      2.   Underage Persons:
         a.   No person shall sell, give or otherwise supply dangerous weapons,
as defined in subsection A1 of this section, to any person, knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe that person to be under eighteen (18) years of age,
and no person under eighteen (18) years of age shall individually or jointly
possess or control a dangerous weapon.
         b.   Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to prevent possession of
dangerous weapons by a person under eighteen (18) years of age while in the
home with the consent of that person's parent or guardian, nor shall it be a
violation of this section to possess a dangerous weapon in conjunction with
martial arts training, when such possession is limited to a properly licensed
martial arts school or facility and when the person's parent or guardian has
given written authorization to participate in such training.
      3.   Penalty: The penalty for violation of this subsection A shall be as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. Additionally, any use in violation of
this section is hereby declared a public nuisance, and may be abated in any
manner consistent with law. (2008 Code § 19-16; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Discharge Of Weapons And Projectiles:
      1.   Prohibited Acts; Exceptions: It shall be unlawful to:
         a.   Discharge any cannon or firearm of any description without first
having obtained permission in writing from the mayor, unless the person
discharging the firearm is a peace officer acting pursuant to the duties of his
office.
         b.   Discharge or propel any object by means of an air or spring
loaded gun, slingshot, blowgun, bow or crossbow.
         c.   Throw any stick, stone or other object at a vehicle, residence or
auxiliary structure thereto without permission of the owner.
      2.   Penalty: Any person violating this subsection B shall be subject to
the general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code.
      3.   Bow And Arrow Use; Conditions: It shall not be deemed a violation of
this section to use a bow and arrow to hunt deer on land zoned agricultural and
divided in a parcel of at least three (3) acres, with the following conditions:
         a.   The person is the owner of the property or has permission from
the owner to allow for bow hunting;
         b.   The person bow hunting must successfully complete an Iowa
department of natural resources bow hunter safety education course, or the
equivalent, and a proficiency test must be taken annually;
         c.   The person has any license or permit required by the state or
county to hunt deer with a bow;
         d.   Hunting will be done in accordance with all state or county laws
or regulations;
         e.   Hunting does not occur within one hundred (100) yards of any
residence, church or occupied structure or park ground;
         f.   Hunting takes place from an elevated position of at least four
feet (4'). Elevated stands must have hunter's name and phone number on the
stand;
         g.   The person hunting can demonstrate compliance with these
requirements to any police officer upon request; and
         h.   As an alternative to subsection B3e of this section, any person
may hunt on such terms and conditions approved by the chief of police and with
the recommendation of the deer advisory committee for the sole purpose of deer
control, including land zoned other than agricultural and parcels less than
three (3) acres. (2008 Code § 19-17)
5-5A-5: FALSE REPORTS TO LAW ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITIES 1 :
Any person who reports or causes to be reported false information to a fire
department or a law enforcement authority, knowing that the information is
false, or who reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal act knowing the same
did not occur, shall be subject to the general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2008 Code § 19-6)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 718.6.
5-5A-6: DISORDERLY CONDUCT 1 :
   A.   Disorderly Conduct Described: A person commits disorderly conduct when
the person does any of the following: (2008 Code § 19-7)
      1.   Fighting: Engages in fighting or violent behavior in any public
place or in or near any lawful assembly of persons; provided, that participants
in athletic contests may engage in such conduct which is reasonably related to
that sport.
      2.   Noise: Makes loud or raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence
or public building which causes unreasonable distress to the occupants thereof.
(2008 Code § 19-7; amd. 2015 Code)
      3.   Abusive Epithets: Directs abusive epithets or makes any threatening
gesture which the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a
violent reaction by another.
      4.   Meeting: Without lawful authority or color of authority, the person
disturbs any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct intended to
disrupt the meeting or assembly.
      5.   Fire, Epidemic Or Other Catastrophe: By words or action, initiates
or circulates a report or warning of fire, epidemic or other catastrophe,
knowing such report to be false or such warning to be baseless.
      6.   Obstruction: Without authority or justification, the person
obstructs any street, sidewalk, highway or other public way, with the intent to
prevent or hinder its lawful use by others.
      7.   Urinating Or Defecating: Urinates or defecates in or upon any
street, sidewalk, alley, public place or in any place open to public view;
provided, that this subsection shall not apply to restrooms or public
facilities designated for such purpose.
      8.   Minors Entering Gambling Facility:
         a.   Entering Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years to enter or attempt to enter a gambling facility
licensed to operate gambling games pursuant to Iowa Code chapter 99F unless
said person is exempted from this section as set out in subsection A8b of this
section. As used in this section, the term "gambling facility" shall include
and be defined as those areas where gambling games are conducted in a gambling
facility licensed to operate gambling games pursuant to Iowa Code chapter 99F.
A violation of this subsection shall constitute a simple misdemeanor.
         b.   Exceptions: Persons of the age of eighteen (18) years or older
are permitted to enter a gambling facility if:
            (1)   They are employed by the operator of the gambling facility
and are on duty at the time that they are in the gambling facility; or
            (2)   They are employed by a vendor of the gambling facility and
are strictly entering the facility to deliver goods or other wares ordered by
the facility; or
            (3)   They are employed by any mail carrier service and are
entering the gambling facility to deliver mail, packages, or other postal
products; or
            (4)   They are employed by a law enforcement agency and are
entering the gambling facility to conduct an investigation or are otherwise
responding to a call for assistance at the gaming facility.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be subject to the
general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2008 Code § 19-7)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 723.4.
5-5A-7: DISORDERLY HOUSES:
   A.   Prohibited Act: It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit
in any house or upon any premises owned, occupied or controlled by him, any
fighting or any loud or raucous noise.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be subject to the
general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2008 Code § 19-8)
5-5A-8: VOYEURISM:
   A.   Prohibited Act: It shall be unlawful for a person to enter upon the
property of another with the effect of violating the privacy of a person
therein. For the purpose of this section, "violating the privacy" shall be
defined as physical observation of another at such times or in such manner as
would cause distress to a reasonable person so observed.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be subject to the
general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2008 Code § 19-9)
5-5A-9: NOISE LIMITS FROM CERTAIN SOUND SOURCES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed thereto:
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL: The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on
a sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The level so read is
designated dBA.
   DECIBELS: A unit for measuring the volume of sound, equal to twenty (20)
times the logarithm to the base of ten (10) of the ratio of the pressure of the
sound measured to the reference pressure, which is twenty (20) micropascals (20
micronewtons per square meter).
   NOISE DISTURBANCE: For purpose of this section, any transmission of sound
across a real property boundary which exceeds the sound level limits set forth
in table 1, "Maximum Permissible Sound Levels From Sources By Receiving Land
Use", of this section.
   REAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY: An imaginary line along the ground surface, and its
vertical extension, which separates the real property owned by one person from
that owned by another person, but not including intrabuilding real property
divisions.
   RECEIVING LAND USE: The use or occupancy of the property which receives the
transmission of sound.
   SOUND: An oscillation is pressure, particle displacement, particle velocity
or other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces which cause
compression and rarefaction of that medium. The description of sound may
include any characteristic of sound, including duration, density and frequency.
   SOUND LEVEL: The weighted sound pressure level contained by the use of the
sound level meter and A-weighting network, such as a, b, or c as specified in
American National Standards Institute specifications for sound level meters,
ANSI S1.4-1971. If the frequency weighting employed is not indicated, the A-
weighting shall apply.
   SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument used to measure sound pressure.
   SOUND PRESSURE: The instantaneous difference between the actual pressure and
the average or barometric pressure at a given point in space, as produced by
sound energy.
   TABLE 1
   MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE SOUND LEVELS FROM SOURCES BY RECEIVING LAND USE
 
Zoning Category Of Receiving Legal Time              Sound Level Limit (dBA)
Land Use
Residence district           7:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M. 60
                            10:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M. 50
Commercial district          At all times            65
Industrial district          At all times            75
 
   B.   Sound Measurement: Sound level measured from limited sound sources, for
purposes of this section, shall be measured using a sound level meter at the
real property boundary of the receiving property, or at a point reasonably
proximate to the real property boundary and shall be measured at a height of
four feet (4') above the immediate ground surface. (2008 Code § 19-10)
   C.   Animals: No person shall own, possess or harbor any animal or bird
which frequently or for continued duration emits sounds native to the species
which are a noise disturbance. Excepted from this provision are service dogs
for disabled persons. (2008 Code § 19-10; amd. 2015 Code)
   D.   Sound Amplifiers: No person shall operate, play or permit the playing
of any radio, television, phonograph, drum, musical instrument, sound
amplifier, or similar device which produces, reproduces, or amplifies sound at
a sound level which creates a noise disturbance. Exempted herefrom are church
carillons, bells, or chimes, parades, mobile radio signaling devices, and
sanctioned race events.
   E.   Power Tools: No person shall operate or permit the use or operation of
a power lawn mower, power trimmer, electric or gasoline powered chain saw, or
other power yard trimming device between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following morning if such use constitutes a
noise disturbance.
   F.   Emergency Equipment: Governmental fire department equipment and devices
used by emergency vehicles or governmental officials for authorized public
purposes are exempt from the provisions of this section.
   G.   Emergency Repairs: Emergency repairs of streets, sewers, water mains or
the like are exempt from the provisions of this section.
   H.   Construction: Cement cuts on construction projects, being of immediate
and temporary nature, are exempt from the provisions of this section.
   I.   Disturbance: No person shall cause such other sound as constitutes a
noise disturbance.
   J.   Generators: Generators used to provide temporary power during
construction activities, fixed generators which are used as emergency backup
and comply with site location and buffering provisions established by the
building official, and portable generators used during times of power outage
are exempt from the provisions of this section. Testing or temporary operation
of the generator for maintenance purposes are likewise exempt. (2008 Code § 19-
10)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-5B-1: Theft
5-5B-2: Criminal Mischief
5-5B-3: Trespassing
5-5B-4: Attachments To City Property
5-5B-5: Posting Signs
5-5B-6: Discarded Refrigerators And Containers
5-5B-7: Vending Machine Restrictions In Rights Of Way
5-5B-1: THEFT 1 :
   A.   Theft Defined: A person commits theft when the person does any of the
following:
      1.   Depriving Another Of Property: Takes possession or control of the
property of another, or property in the possession of another, with the intent
to deprive the other thereof.
      2.   Misappropriation Of Property: Misappropriates property which the
person has in trust, or property of another which the person has in the
person's possession or control, whether such possession or control is lawful or
unlawful, by using or disposing of it in a manner which is inconsistent with or
a denial of the trust or of the owner's rights in such property, or conceals
found property, or appropriates such property to the person's own use, when the
owner of such property is known to the person.
         a.   Failure by a bailee or lessee of personal property to return the
property within seventy two (72) hours after a time specified in a written
agreement of lease or bailment shall be evidence of misappropriation.
         b.   If a time is not specified in the written agreement of lease or
bailment for the expiration or termination of the lease or bailment or for the
return of the personal property, failure by a lessee or bailee to return the
property within five (5) days after proper notice to the lessee or bailee shall
be evidence of misappropriation. For the purposes of this subsection, "proper
notice" means a written notice of the expiration or termination of the lease or
bailment agreement sent to the lessee or bailee by certified or restricted
certified mail at the address of the lessee or bailee specified in the
agreement. The notice shall be considered effective on the date of the mailing
of the notice regardless of whether or not the lessee or bailee signs a receipt
for the notice.
      3.   Obtaining Labor Or Services By Deception: Obtains the labor or
services of another, or a transfer of possession, control, or ownership of the
property of another, or the beneficial use of property of another, by
deception. Where compensation for goods and services is ordinarily paid
immediately upon the obtaining of such goods or the rendering of such services,
the refusal to pay or leaving the premises without payment or offer to pay or
without having obtained from the owner or operator the right to pay subsequent
to leaving the premises gives rise to an inference that the goods or services
were obtained by deception.
      4.   Control Over Stolen Property: Exercises control over stolen
property, knowing such property to have been stolen, or having reasonable cause
to believe that such property has been stolen, unless the person's purpose is
to promptly restore it to the owner or to deliver it to an appropriate public
officer. The fact that the person is found in possession of property which has
been stolen from two (2) or more persons on separate occasions, or that the
person is a dealer or other person familiar with the value of such property and
has acquired it for a consideration which is far below its reasonable value,
shall be evidence from which the court or jury may infer that the person knew
or believed that the property had been stolen.
      5.   Taking Property By Fraud: Takes, destroys, conceals or disposes of
property in which someone else has a security interest, with intent to defraud
the secured party.
      6.   Payment By Invalid Instrument: Makes, utters, draws, delivers, or
gives any check, share draft, draft, or written order on any bank, credit
union, person, or corporation, and obtains property, the use of property,
including rental property, or service in exchange for such instrument, if the
person knows that such check, share draft, draft, or written order will not be
paid when presented.
         a.   Whenever the drawee of such instrument has refused payment
because of insufficient funds, and the maker has not paid the holder of the
instrument the amount due thereon within ten (10) days of the maker's receipt
of notice from the holder that payment has been refused by the drawee, the
court or jury may infer from such facts that the maker knew that the instrument
would not be paid on presentation. Notice of refusal of payment shall be by
certified mail, or by personal service in the manner prescribed for serving
original notices.
         b.   Whenever the drawee of such instrument has refused payment
because the maker has no account with the drawee, the court or jury may infer
from such fact that the maker knew that the instrument would not be paid on
presentation.
      7.   Connection To Utilities, Cable Television Or Telephone Service:
Obtains gas, electricity or water from a public utility or obtains cable
television or telephone service from an unauthorized connection to the supply
or service line or by intentionally altering, adjusting, removing or tampering,
with the metering or service device so as to cause inaccurate readings.
      8.   Accessing Computers, Systems Or Networks: Knowingly and without
authorization accesses or causes to be accessed a computer, computer system, or
computer network, or any part thereof, for the purpose of obtaining computer
services, information, or property or knowingly and without authorization and
with the intent to permanently deprive the owner of possession, takes,
transfers, conceals, or retains possession of a computer, computer system, or
computer network or any computer software or computer program, or computer data
contained in a computer, computer system, or computer network.
      9.   Obtaining Video Rental Property:
         a.   Obtains the temporary use of video rental property with the
intent to deprive the owner of the use and possession of the video rental
property without the consent of the owner.
         b.   Lawfully obtains the temporary use of video rental property and
fails to return the video rental property by the agreed time with the intent to
deprive the owner of the use and possession of the video rental property
without the consent of the owner. The aggregate value of the video rental
property involved shall be the original retail value of the video rental
property.
      10.   Theft As Declared By Statute: Any act that is declared to be theft
by any provision of the Iowa Code. (1980 Code § 19-21; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Value: The value of property is its highest value by any reasonable
standard at the time that it is stolen. Reasonable standard includes, but is
not limited to, market value within the community, actual value, or replacement
value. If money or property is stolen by two (2) or more acts from the same
person or location, or from different persons by two (2) or more acts which
occur in approximately the same location or time period so that the thefts are
attributable to a single scheme, plan or conspiracy, these acts may be
considered a single theft and the value may be the total value of all the
property stolen.
   C.   Penalty For Theft: No person shall acquire property or services having
a value of two hundred dollars ($200.00) or less by theft. Any person violating
this section shall be subject to the general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 19-21)
 
Notes
1 1. IC ch. 714.
5-5B-2: CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 1 :
   A.   Any damage, defacing, alteration or destruction of tangible property,
wherein the damage does not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) is criminal
mischief when done intentionally by one who has no right to act.
   B.   Whenever criminal mischief is committed upon more than one item of
property at approximately the same location or time period, so that all of
these acts of mischief can be attributed to a single scheme, plan or
conspiracy, such acts shall be considered as a single act of criminal mischief.
   C.   Criminal mischief shall include, but not be limited to, the depositing
of "garbage", "rubbish", or waste (building, industrial, or yard) as defined in
section
8-3-1 of this code, on the property of another, including placing garbage,
rubbish, or waste in commercial receptacles belonging to or leased to someone
else.
   D.   Any person committing criminal mischief shall be subject to the general
penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2008 Code § 19-22)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 716.3 et seq.
5-5B-3: TRESPASSING 1 :
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings as prescribed in this subsection:
   PROPERTY: Shall include any land, dwelling, building, conveyance, vehicle,
or other temporary or permanent structure whether publicly or privately owned.
   PUBLIC UTILITY: As defined in Iowa Code section 476.1 or an electric
transmission line as provided in Iowa Code chapter 478.
   PUBLIC UTILITY PROPERTY: Any land, dwelling, building, conveyance, vehicle,
or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased, or operated by a
public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical barrier of any
kind.
   RAILWAY CORPORATION: A corporation, company, or person owning, leasing, or
operating any railroad in whole or in part within this state.
   RAILWAY PROPERTY: All tangible real and personal property owned, leased, or
operated by a railway corporation with the exception of any administrative
building or offices of the railway corporation.
   B.   Trespass:
      1.   "Trespass" shall mean one or more of the following acts:
         a.   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of
the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense, to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate, or to hunt, fish or trap on
or in the property, including the act of taking or attempting to take a deer,
other than a farm deer as defined in Iowa Code section 170.1 or preserve
whitetail as defined in Iowa Code section 484C.1, which is on or in the
property by a person who is outside the property. This subsection does not
prohibit the unarmed pursuit of game or furbearing animals by a person who
lawfully injured or killed the game or furbearing animal which comes to rest on
or escapes to the property of another.
         b.   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any peace officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to supervise
the use or maintenance of the property.
         c.   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect
of unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
         d.   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing
therefrom, altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein
anything animate or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the
owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession.
         e.   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property. This subsection does not apply to passage
over a railroad right of way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct,
bridge, trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not
been notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right of way or to
vacate the right of way and the passage over the right of way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
         f.   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without
lawful authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns,
leases, or operates the public utility property. This subsection does not apply
to passage over public utility right of way by a person if the person has not
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering onto the right of way or to vacate the right of way.
      2.   "Trespass" shall not mean either of the following:
         a.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another; provided, that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property.
This subsection does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
         b.   Entering upon the right of way of a public road or highway.
   C.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to the following persons:
      1.   Representatives of the state department of transportation, the
federal railroad administration, or the national transportation safety board
who enter or remain upon or in railway property while engaged in the
performance of official duties.
      2.   Employees of a railway corporation who enter or remain upon or in
railway property while acting in the course of employment.
      3.   Any person who is engaged in the operation of a lawful business on
railway station grounds or in the railway depot.
      4.   Representatives of the Iowa utilities board, the federal energy
regulatory commission, or the federal communications commission who enter or
remain upon or in public utility property while engaged in the performance of
official duties.
      5.   Employees of a public utility who enter or remain upon or in public
utility property while acting in the course of employment. (1980 Code § 19-23;
amd. 2015 Code)
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be subject to the
general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2008 Code § 19-23)
 
Notes
1 2. IC § 716.7.
5-5B-4: ATTACHMENTS TO CITY PROPERTY:
   A.   Prohibited Act: It shall be unlawful to attach any item or device to
any fire hydrant, streetlamp, lamppost, manhole, or any city park property
except by persons using the parks for recreation or sports purposes.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be subject to the
general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2008 Code § 19-24)
5-5B-5: POSTING SIGNS:
   A.   Prohibited Act: It shall be unlawful to affix to any building,
structure, fence, tree, lamppost, sidewalk, telephone pole, telegraph pole, or
to any other pole or any other improvement, any poster, show bill, handbill or
other printed notice or sign, without the permission of the property owner.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to allow the posting of signs
contrary to any zoning or building ordinance of the city.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be subject to the
general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2008 Code § 19-25)
5-5B-6: DISCARDED REFRIGERATORS AND CONTAINERS:
   A.   Prohibited Act: It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or permit
to remain outside of any dwelling, building or other structure, or within any
unoccupied or abandoned building, dwelling or other structure under his
control, in a place accessible to children, any abandoned, unattended or
discarded icebox, refrigerator or other container which has an airtight door or
lid, snaplock or other locking device, without first removing the door or lid,
snaplock or other locking device from the icebox, refrigerator or container.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be subject to the
general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2008 Code § 19-26)
5-5B-7: VENDING MACHINE RESTRICTIONS IN RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   Certain Vending Machines (Newsracks) Allowed: No vending machine shall
be operated on the public right of way except vending machines involving the
sale or distribution of first amendment protected materials when such machines
conform to the regulations of this section (hereinafter defined as "newsrack").
   B.   Physical Specifications: All newsracks shall be maintained in good
repair and neat appearance, and shall not be longer than four feet (4') in
height, three feet (3') in width, and two feet (2') in depth.
   C.   Location: No newsrack shall be placed, installed, used, or maintained:
      1.   On any portion of a street between the curbways;
      2.   Adjacent and facing a street when normal and expected operation of
the machine would cause drivers to park their vehicles in a no parking zone;
      3.   Within three feet (3') of any fire hydrant;
      4.   Within three feet (3') of any marked crosswalk;
      5.   Within two feet (2') of any curb adjacent to any unmarked crosswalk;
      6.   Within two feet (2') of any driveway;
      7.   At any location where the newsrack unreasonably obstructs or
interferes with the access to the abutting property;
      8.   At any location where the newsrack causes, creates or constitutes a
traffic hazard;
      9.   At any location where the newsrack endangers persons or property; or
      10.   At any location where the clear space for the passage of
pedestrians is reduced to two feet (2') or less.
   D.   Labeled With Name And Address Of Owner: Each newsrack must be labeled
with the name, address and phone number of the owner.
   E.   Advertising Restricted: No newsrack shall be used to publicize any
activity other than purposes to promote the sale of the periodicals contained
therein.
   F.   Notify Owner Of Violations: When a newsrack is found in violation of
this section, the owner, as identified by the label on the newsrack, will be
notified by registered mail and given seven (7) days to bring the newsrack into
compliance:
      1.   If the newsrack is not labeled with the owner's name, the newsrack
will be tagged with the violation and if not corrected in seven (7) days, will
be removed.
      2.   If the owner does not move the newsrack after seven (7) days, he
shall be cited for violation of this section and, if guilty, shall be fined
fifty dollars ($50.00). Thereafter, the city shall remove the newsrack and an
impoundment fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be charged prior to
release of the newsrack.
      3.   If a violation of this section creates an immediate risk of harm to
persons or property, the newsrack will be summarily removed.
   G.   Attaching To Pole Or Traffic Control Device: No newsrack shall be
attached to any pole or traffic control device within the right of way without
permission of the owner thereof. (2008 Code § 19-27)
ARTICLE C. MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-5C-1: Drug Paraphernalia
5-5C-2: Inhaling Toxic Vapors And Chemicals
5-5C-3: Liquor Related Offenses
5-5C-1: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Shall be defined as the term "controlled substance" is
defined in the uniform controlled substances act, Iowa Code chapter 124 as it
now exists or is hereafter amended.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: All equipment, products and materials of any kind which
are used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, concealing, containing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the
uniform controlled substances act, Iowa Code chapter 124.
      1.   "Drug paraphernalia" includes, but is not limited to:
         a.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived.
         b.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing
controlled substances.
         c.   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for use
in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled
substance.
         d.   Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled
substances.
         e.   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use
in weighing or measuring controlled substances.
         f.   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose or lactose, used, intended for use, or designed for
use in cutting controlled substances.
         g.   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use, or designed
for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana.
         h.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled substances.
         i.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended
for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
substances.
         j.   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances.
         k.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for
use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances into
the human body.
         l.   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing heroin, marijuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil into the human body, such as:
            (1)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic
pipes with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured
metal bowls;
            (2)   Water pipes;
            (3)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
            (4)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
            (5)   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning materials,
such as a marijuana cigarette that has become too small or too short to be held
in the hand;
            (6)   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            (7)   Chamber pipes;
            (8)   Carburetor pipes;
            (9)   Electric pipes;
            (10)   Air driven pipes;
            (11)   Chillums;
            (12)   Bongs;
            (13)   Ice pipes or chillers.
      2.   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia for the
purpose of enforcing this section, the following factors should be considered
in addition to all other logically relevant factors:
         a.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
         b.   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner or of anyone in control of
the object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substance;
         c.   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of the uniform controlled substances act, Iowa Code chapter 124;
         d.   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
         e.   The existence of any residue of controlled substance on the
object;
         f.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or
of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he knows, or
should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of
the uniform controlled substances act, Iowa Code chapter 124;
         g.   The innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object,
as to a direct violation of the uniform controlled substances act, Iowa Code
chapter 124, should not prevent a finding that the object is intended for use
or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
         h.   Instruction, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
         i.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
         j.   National and local advertising concerning its use;
         k.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
         l.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
         m.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
         n.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community;
         o.   Expert testimony concerning its use.
   PERSON: An individual, corporation, business, trust, estate, partnership or
association, or any other legal entity.
   B.   Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia: It is unlawful for any person to use,
or to possess with intent to use, drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate,
cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process,
prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest,
inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in
violation of the uniform controlled substances act, Iowa Code chapter 124.
   C.   Manufacture Or Delivery Of Drug Paraphernalia: It is unlawful for any
person to deliver, possess with intent to deliver, or manufacture with intent
to deliver, drug paraphernalia, intending that the drug paraphernalia will be
used, or knowing, or under circumstances where one reasonably should know that
it will be used, or knowing that it is designed for use to plant, propagate,
cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, prepare,
test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale,
or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in violation
of the uniform controlled substances act, Iowa Code chapter 124.
   D.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision,
subsection, or paragraph of this section shall be subject to the general
penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2008 Code § 19-31)
5-5C-2: INHALING TOXIC VAPORS AND CHEMICALS:
   A.   Toxic Vapors: No person shall knowingly smell or inhale the fumes of
toxic vapors, whether synthetic or organic, for the purpose of causing a
condition of euphoria, excitement, exhilaration, stupefaction, or dulled senses
of the nervous system. No person shall knowingly possess, buy, or use any such
substance for the purposes described in this subsection, nor shall any person
knowingly aid any other person to use any such substance for the purposes
described in this subsection. This subsection shall not apply to the inhalation
of anesthesia or other substances for prescribed medical or dental purposes.
   B.   Aerosol Spray Products: No person shall use an aerosol spray product or
other inhalant, that is not used pursuant to the instructions or prescription
of a licensed healthcare provider, or that is not used pursuant to the
manufacturer's label instructions, for the purposes described in subsection A
of this section.
   C.   Committing Offense: A person commits an offense if the person knowingly
uses or possesses with intent to use inhalant paraphernalia to inhale, ingest,
or otherwise introduce a toxic vapor into the human body.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be subject to the
general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2008 Code § 19-32)
5-5C-3: LIQUOR RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Consumption In Public Places; Intoxication:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to use or consume alcoholic liquor,
beer or wine upon the public streets, highways or any public place, or on any
public school property except premises covered by a liquor control license, or
park premises specifically designated by resolution of the park and recreation
board, or by resolution of the city council.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to use or consume alcoholic liquor,
beer or wine upon any parking lot, driveway, or sidewalk located in any
commercial district as established by the zoning ordinance of the city and
accompanying zone map, without the prior consent of the person having the right
to or possession of the premises.
      3.   It is unlawful for any person to use or consume alcoholic liquor,
beer or wine upon any parking lot, driveway, or sidewalk located on the
premises of, but outside the confines of, a building, structure or premises
covered by a liquor control license.
      4.   No person shall be intoxicated nor simulate intoxication in any
place designated in subsection A1, A2, or A3 of this section. If any person be
found in a state of intoxication, any peace officer shall, without warrant,
take him into custody and detain him in some suitable place until any
information can be made before a magistrate and a warrant of arrest issued,
under which he shall at once be taken before the magistrate issuing the same,
or, if for any reason he cannot act, to the nearest one, where he shall be
tried.
      5.   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2008 Code § 5.5-24; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Persons Under Legal Age:
      1.   A person shall not sell, give or otherwise supply alcoholic liquor,
wine or beer to any person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
person to be under the legal age, and a person or persons under the legal age
shall not purchase or attempt to purchase, or individually or jointly have,
alcoholic liquor, wine or beer in their possession or control; except in the
case of liquor, wine or beer given or dispensed to a person under the legal age
within a private home and with the knowledge, presence, and consent of the
parent or guardian for beverage or medicinal purposes, or as administered to
the person by either a physician or dentist for medicinal purposes, and except
to the extent that a person under the legal age may handle alcoholic beverages,
wine and beer during the regular course of the person's employment by a liquor
control licensee, or wine or beer permittee under Iowa Code chapter 123.
      2.   A person who is under legal age, other than a licensee or permittee,
who violates this section regarding the purchase of or attempt to purchase
alcoholic liquor, wine or beer or possessing or having control of alcoholic
liquor, wine, or beer, commits a simple misdemeanor punishable by a fine of two
hundred dollars ($200.00). (2008 Code § 5.5-25; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   Minors In Commercial Establishments:
      1.   Minor Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any person under legal
age to enter, remain in or frequent a commercial establishment holding a liquor
license or beer or wine permit in which the business of selling beer or
alcoholic liquor constitutes more than fifty percent (50%) of the dollar value
of the annual sales of such commercial establishment unless accompanied by a
parent or legal guardian of such person.
      2.   Operator Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any person operating a
commercial establishment holding a liquor license or beer or wine permit to
allow any person under legal age to remain in the establishment in violation of
subsection C1 of this section.
      3.   Employees Excepted: The provisions of this section shall not apply
to any person under legal age who is a regular employee performing regular
duties during the course of employment. (2008 Code § 5.5-26; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 6
MINORS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Curfew
5-6-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   MINOR: An unemancipated person who has not yet reached the eighteenth
birthday.
   PARENT: A person having legal custody of a minor as a natural or adoptive
parent, as a legal guardian, as a person who stands in loco parentis, or by
virtue of court order.
   STREET: A way or place, of whatever nature, open to the use of the public as
a matter of right for vehicular or pedestrian travel, including, but not
limited to, streets, alleys, sidewalks, irrespective of what the right of way
is called.
   B.   Hours Of Curfew: No minor shall be or remain upon the streets of the
city from eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. until five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Sunday
night through Friday morning, and from twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight until
five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Friday night through Sunday morning.
   C.   Exceptions: In the following cases, the presence of a minor on city
streets shall not constitute a violation of subsection B of this section:
      1.   When the minor is accompanied by the minor's parent.
      2.   When the minor is accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of
such minor to take such parent's place in accompanying such minor for a
designated period of time and purpose. Such permission shall be written and
presented to a peace officer upon request.
      3.   When the minor exercises first amendment rights, such as free
exercise of religion, freedom of speech, right of assembly, or right to
petition the government, and use of city streets is a necessary incident
thereto.
      4.   When the minor is traveling, via direct route, to or from a place of
employment, or such travel necessary in conjunction with employment duties.
      5.   When the minor is traveling through the city from and to
destinations outside the city, with no point of destination within the city,
when such travel is by direct route.
      6.   When the minor is returning home by direct route from and within
thirty (30) minutes from the termination of a school or church activity, or
government sponsored activity or event.
      7.   When the minor is traveling to or from a city or school sponsored
after prom event.
      8.   All contacts with juveniles under this section shall be referred to
the police social worker for follow up contact with their parent or guardian.
(2008 Code § 19-30; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 7
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-7-1: Definitions
5-7-2: Fireworks Allowed As Specified
5-7-3: Sales
5-7-4: Penalty
5-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the terms "consumer fireworks", "display
fireworks", and "novelties" shall have the respective meanings enumerated in
Iowa Code section 727.2, which definitions are incorporated by reference.
Consumer fireworks do not include "novelties" or "display fireworks" as defined
herein. (Ord. 38-17, 11-21-2017)
5-7-2: FIREWORKS ALLOWED AS SPECIFIED:
   A.   Use Of Consumer Fireworks: Consumer fireworks may be used on July 3 and
July 4 from two o'clock (2:00) P.M. until eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and on
the night of December 31 from ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. until twelve thirty
o'clock (12:30) A.M. on the immediate following day. A person shall not use,
explode or discharge consumer fireworks on real property other than that
person's real property or on the real property of a person who has consented to
the use of consumer fireworks on that property. A person that uses, explodes or
discharges consumer fireworks shall have responsibility to clean up all debris
created by the fireworks. A person shall not release or cause to be released an
untethered sky lantern.
   B.   Use Of Display Fireworks:
      1.   Permit: The City Council, through the Fire Chief or his/her
designee, to whom the following authority is delegated, may, upon application
in writing and payment of the permit fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00),
grant a permit for the use of display fireworks by the City, a fair
association, amusement park, or other organization or group of individuals
approved by the City, when such use of display fireworks will be handled by a
competent operator.
      2.   Application For Permit: The application for permit for the use of
display fireworks shall contain the following:
         a.   The name, address, and social security (or tax ID) number of the
applicant.
         b.   The location, date, and time of the display.
         c.   The name and experience of the person or persons who will be
conducting/operating the display, including a copy of any pyrotechnician
license held.
         d.   A statement agreeing to indemnify and hold harmless the City of
Bettendorf from any liability which may arise as a result of the display.
         e.   A signed and dated certificate of insurance, naming the City of
Bettendorf as an additional named insured, in an amount not less than three
million dollars ($3,000,000.00).
      3.   Review Of Application: Upon receipt of the application, the Fire
Chief or his/her designee shall review the proposal, and base their decision on
the following factors:
         a.   The size and location of the display within the City.
         b.   The training and past experiences of the person operating the
display.
         c.   The manner in which the applicant has conducted past displays.
         d.   The likelihood that the display will unreasonably disturb nearby
residents.
         e.   Any special safety considerations.
         f.   The proposed display meets or exceeds the requirements of the
current International Fire Code. (Ord. 38-17, 11-21-2017)
5-7-3: SALES:
The sale of any fireworks shall at all times be conducted in accordance with
all Federal, State and local laws, including, but not limited to, Iowa Code
chapters 100 and 727 and the Administrative Rules adopted by the Iowa State
Fire Marshal relating to the sale, transfer, and purchase of fireworks. For
avoidance of doubt, any person desiring to sell fireworks within the City shall
obtain the applicable license and/or permit, including, but not limited to, a
business license, transient merchant license, building permit, or operational
permit, as prescribed by this Code. (Ord. 38-17, 11-21-2017)
5-7-4: PENALTY:
A person who violates this chapter commits a simple misdemeanor punishable as
follows:
 
First offense        $250.00
Second offense       400.00
Third and subsequent 625.00
 
(Ord. 38-17, 11-21-2017)
CHAPTER 8
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-8-1: Definitions
5-8-2: Licensing Requirements; Fees
5-8-3: Rabies Vaccination Required
5-8-4: Report Of Bites Required
5-8-5: Livestock And Poultry Restricted
5-8-6: Animals Running At Large
5-8-7: Removal Of Excrement
5-8-8: Number Of Animals Regulated
5-8-9: Damage To Property
5-8-10: Barking Dogs
5-8-11: Feeding Wild Deer, Raccoons And Coyote
5-8-12: Mistreatment Of Animals
5-8-13: Wild, Exotic And Dangerous Animals
5-8-14: Vicious Animals
5-8-15: Nuisances; Notice Of Violation; Abatement
5-8-16: Impoundment Procedure; Redemption; Fees
5-8-17: Enforcement; Citations; Inspection
5-8-18: Penalties
5-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are defined as set
forth in this section unless otherwise defined herein:
ADEQUATE FOOD: The provision at suitable intervals as the dietary requirements
of the species so require, of a quantity of wholesome foodstuff suitable for
the species and age sufficient to maintain a reasonable level of nutrition in
each animal. The foodstuff shall be served in a clean receptacle, dish, or
container.
ADEQUATE WATER: Reasonable access to a supply of clean, fresh, potable water
provided in a sanitary manner and provided at suitable intervals for the
species not to exceed twenty four (24) hours at any one interval.
ANIMAL: A living organism, other than human beings, birds, fish, or
invertebrates, domesticated or wild, and distinguished from other living things
by structural characteristics such as locomotion.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Any humane officer employed by a humane society under
contract with the city, any animal control officer under the jurisdiction of
the chief of police, or any other person authorized by the city administrator
to enforce the provisions of this chapter by means of appropriate police
powers.
ANIMAL SHELTER: A facility which is used to house or contain dogs, cats, or
other animals, and which is owned, operated or maintained by the city or
operated under contract with the city for the purpose of humane boarding of
animals impounded under the provisions of this chapter or any other ordinance.
AT HEEL: With reference to a dog, shall mean within six feet (6') of a person
and subject to that person's strict obedience command.
BOARDING KENNEL: A place or establishment other than an animal shelter or pound
where dogs, cats, or other animals, not owned by the proprietor, are sheltered,
fed and watered in return for consideration.
CAT: All members of the feline species regardless of sex.
COMMERCIAL BREEDER: A person engaged in the business of breeding dogs or cats
who sells, exchanges, or leases dogs or cats in return for consideration, or
who offers to do so, whether or not the animals are raised, trained, groomed,
or boarded by the person. A person who owns or harbors three (3) or less
breeding males or females is not a commercial breeder.
COMMERCIAL KENNEL: A kennel which performs grooming, boarding, or training
services for dogs or cats in return for consideration.
COMMISSION: The natural resources commission of the department of natural
resources created and established by the code of Iowa.
DOG: All members of the canine species regardless of sex.
EUTHANASIA: The humane destruction of an animal accomplished by a method that
involves instantaneous unconsciousness and immediate death or a method that
involves anesthesia, produced by an agent which causes painless loss of
consciousness, and death during the loss of consciousness.
FURBEARING ANIMALS: The following which are declared to be furbearing animals
for the purpose of regulation and protection under this chapter: beaver, mink,
otter, muskrat, raccoon, skunk, opossum, spotted skunk or civet cat, weasel,
coyote, bobcat, wolf, groundhog, red fox, gray fox, and any other animals
defined as furbearing by the commission.
GUARD DOG: Any dog trained or used to protect persons or property by attacking
or threatening to attack any person found within the area patrolled by the dog,
such dog being either securely enclosed within the area at all times or under
the continuous control of a trained handler.
HOUSING FACILITIES: Any room, building or area used to contain a primary
enclosure or enclosures.
OWNER: Any person having a right of property in an animal, who keeps or harbors
an animal, who has it in his or her care, who acts as its custodian, or who
knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises owned or
occupied by him or her for three (3) or more days.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, corporation, or association and includes
any officer, employee, or agency thereof.
PET SHOP: An establishment where any dog, cat, rabbit, rodent, fish other than
live bait, bird, or other vertebrate animal is bought, sold, exchanged, or
offered for sale.
PRIMARY ENCLOSURE: Any structure used to immediately restrict an animal to a
limited amount of space, such as a room, pen, cage or compartment.
TAKE: Any pursuing, hunting, killing, trapping, snaring, netting, searching
for, shooting at, taking or lying in wait for, or attempting any of the
foregoing; any animal protected by state laws, regulations or rules adopted by
the commission or this chapter. (2008 Code § 5-1)
5-8-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; FEES:
   A.   Dog License Required; Vaccination; Fee:
      1.   Every dog which is over six (6) months of age shall be licensed by
its owner. Failure to license a dog shall subject the owner to the penalty
provisions of this chapter. Licenses shall be purchased from city hall or the
humane society of Scott County prior to January 31 of each calendar year and
shall expire on December 31 of the same year.
      2.   When an owner applies for a license, he or she shall present a
certificate of current rabies vaccination signed and administered by a licensed
veterinarian which states the date of the vaccination, type of vaccination and
date of revaccination.
      3.   In addition, the owner shall pay the license fee of three dollars
($3.00) for neutered dogs and twenty five dollars ($25.00) for unneutered dogs.
If a veterinarian certifies that a dog is too old to be neutered, the license
fee shall remain three dollars ($3.00).
   B.   Time For Licensing; Prorating Fee:
      1.   In those cases where a dog is not subject to the licensing
requirements because of the dog's age, the owner shall be required to purchase
a license within thirty (30) days after the dog becomes subject to the terms of
this chapter.
      2.   The owner of a dog, which becomes six (6) months old after July 1 of
any calendar year, shall pay one-half (1/2) of the required fee. (1980 Code §
5-2)
   C.   Exceptions To License Requirement: Notwithstanding the licensing
requirements of this chapter, the owner of a dog subject to licensing shall not
be required to obtain a city license if any of the following are true: 1) if
the owner of the dog is a nonresident of the city temporarily residing within
the city (temporary residence shall be residence for 30, or less, continuous
days); or 2) if the dog is brought into the city for the purpose of
participation in a dog show and is removed from the city immediately after the
conclusion of the show; or 3) service dogs used for the assistance of
physically disabled persons. (1980 Code § 5-2; amd. 2015 Code)
   D.   Duplicate License Fee: Upon proof of loss, a duplicate license tag
shall be obtained upon payment of a two dollar ($2.00) replacement fee.
   E.   Transfer Of Ownership; Fee:
      1.   When permanent ownership of a dog is transferred, the new owner
shall, within fourteen (14) days from the date ownership is assumed, make
application for a license.
      2.   The owner shall pay a fee of one dollar ($1.00) for the transfer of
the previous license records. (2008 Code § 5-2)
   F.   Display Of License; Tag And Collar:
      1.   The license tag obtained pursuant to this section shall be securely
attached to a substantial collar, which collar shall be worn by the dog at all
times.
      2.   License tags are not transferable to any other dog.
      3.   Upon demand, the owner of a dog shall display the city license to an
animal control officer or city police officer. (2008 Code § 5-3)
5-8-3: RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Time For Inoculation:
      1.   All dogs, cats, and ferrets shall be inoculated against rabies by a
licensed veterinarian after attaining the age of six (6) months. Such
inoculation shall be readministered at least once every three (3) years for
dogs and cats, once a year for ferrets.
      2.   An owner acquiring a dog, cat or ferret without a current rabies
inoculation certificate shall have the animal inoculated within thirty (30)
days after the animal was acquired or the animal reaches the age of six (6)
months, whichever occurs first.
   B.   Rabies Tags Attached To Collar: The owner or custodian of any animal
required to be inoculated against rabies shall keep a current rabies tag
securely attached to a substantial collar which shall be worn by the animal at
all times. (2008 Code § 5-4)
5-8-4: REPORT OF BITES REQUIRED:
   A.   Report Required; Exception:
      1.   Any person having knowledge of any dog, cat, or ferret bite or
scratch which has caused a skin abrasion upon any person or for which the
victim required medical attention, which bite or scratch occurred within the
city, shall immediately report such fact to the police department.
      2.   This section shall not apply if said bite or scratch occurred while
the animal was being treated, confined, or housed within a veterinary hospital
or clinic and that facility knows such animal is currently inoculated for
rabies and has the certification to prove such inoculation. In such cases,
reporting of the bite or scratch shall be discretionary with the veterinary
hospital or clinic.
   B.   Quarantine; Costs:
      1.   Any animal that has been involved in biting a person or other animal
must be quarantined for ten (10) days from the date of the bite. Such
confinement may be at the premises of the owner if deemed appropriate and
sufficient safeguards are provided to the discretion of the animal control
officer and/or the Scott County health department.
      2.   If an animal is not quarantined at the owner's premises, it shall be
confined at the animal shelter or at a licensed veterinary hospital of the
owner's choosing.
      3.   All costs of the quarantine shall be the owner's liability.
      4.   This section shall not apply to police canines. (2008 Code § 5-5)
5-8-5: LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY RESTRICTED:
   A.   Animals Kept On Agricultural Zoned Property; Exception:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to maintain, keep or harbor any cattle, horses,
jacks, goats, guinea fowl, ostriches, poultry (domestic chickens, turkeys,
geese, and ducks), or similar domestic animals raised for home use or for
profit within the city limits unless the property upon which such animals are
maintained, kept or harbored is zoned as agricultural property.
      2.   This section shall not apply to a bona fide zoological garden, pet
shop, educational institute, circus, carnival, or veterinary hospital treating
such animals.
   B.   Riding Animals On Streets, Public Rights Of Way: It shall be unlawful
for any person to ride any animal upon the public or private sidewalks within
the city, nor shall any person ride any animal upon a public street or right of
way during the hours of sunset to sunrise, except for public parades for which
a permit has been issued by the city.
   C.   Continuation Of Unlawful Keeping Of Livestock:
      1.   The lawful keeping of livestock, which is otherwise unlawful by
reason of the enactment of this chapter, may be continued until such time as
the person no longer keeps livestock upon property within the city upon which
he or she maintained livestock prior to the effective date hereof, or when such
person transfers, sells or otherwise conveys the property upon which such
livestock were maintained prior to the effective date hereof.
      2.   The burden of proving the maintenance of livestock upon a parcel of
land within the city prior to the effective date hereof shall lie with the
person claiming such prior existence.
      3.   Nothing herein shall be deemed to exempt an owner of livestock
within the city limits from the enforcement of nuisance or other laws regarding
the keeping of such livestock. (2008 Code § 5-6)
5-8-6: ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Owner Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian
of any dog, cat, or other animal to fail to keep the same from running at large
within the city. For the purpose of this chapter, an animal shall not be deemed
running at large, even if the animal is not restrained, as long as one of the
following situations applies:
      1.   When the animal is restrained either upon the premises of the owner
or custodian or upon another's premises with the permission of the owner of
that premises, so long as the animal is restrained in such a manner that it
cannot enter on the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, other public areas, or
property not owned by the owner, custodian or permittee.
      2.   When the animal is confined or restrained upon the premises of the
owner or custodian within a secured building, or within a secured pen,
enclosure or similar structure which has secured sides, bottom, and top such
that the animal cannot escape, or within fencing or similar means secured such
that the animal cannot escape and which is fastened by an adequate locking
device.
      3.   When the animal is enclosed within an automobile or other vehicle of
its owner or custodian such that it cannot escape and such that said
confinement does not endanger the animal's health or well being.
      4.   When the animal is being walked off the premises of its owner or
custodian so long as the animal is on a leash not more than six feet (6') in
length and under the control of a person competent to restrain and control the
animal or is at heel.
      5.   When the animal is properly housed in a veterinary hospital or
registered kennel.
   B.   Animals Injured Or Killed On Or Along Public Streets:
      1.   Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, animals injured or
killed on or along public streets or public rights of way shall be deemed
running at large.
      2.   The animal control officer or police officer shall remove or have
removed all such animals and, at his or her discretion, take such an animal
needing medical attention to a veterinarian or animal shelter.
      3.   The owner or custodian of such an animal shall be responsible and
liable for the expenses of medical treatment and care as well as impoundment
fees and any other penalties imposed by this chapter.
   C.   Dogs Or Cats In Heat:
      1.   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
secure enclosure during the period of heat, in such a manner as will prevent
the animal from coming into contact with other animals unless the animal is
used in a planned breeding situation. An animal is deemed to be in heat when it
is in an estrous state or ovulating.
      2.   Nothing in this subsection C shall be construed to prohibit
exercising the animal, provided the animal is restrained on a leash or similar
restraint not more than six feet (6') in length and is under the control of a
person competent to restrain and control the animal or from transporting such
animal within a motor vehicle. (2008 Code § 5-7)
5-8-7: REMOVAL OF EXCREMENT:
   A.   Cleanliness Of Pens Or Yards:
      1.   An owner or custodian of any animal shall keep all structures, pens,
coops, or yards wherein an animal is confined clean and free from excrement and
the odor arising from excrement.
      2.   Such area shall also be clean and free of vermin and anything that
is likely to become putrid, offensive, or injurious to health.
      3.   An area, structure, pen, coop, or yard not maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition may be declared a public nuisance.
   B.   Removal Of Excrement From Public Or Private Property:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for an owner or custodian to permit an animal
to discharge excrement upon any public property, common area, common
thoroughfare, street, sidewalk, alley, play area, park or private property
unless the excrement is immediately picked up and disposed of in an appropriate
refuse container.
      2.   If the owner of private property has given another owner or
custodian permission for their animal to use their private property, then this
section shall not apply to that particular usage.
   C.   Disposal Of Excrement Restricted: Animal excrement shall not be placed
in storm sewers or street gutters, but shall be picked up and disposed of in a
sanitary manner in an appropriate refuse container. (2008 Code § 5-8)
5-8-8: NUMBER OF ANIMALS REGULATED:
   A.   Limitation On Number: No person shall harbor or maintain such number of
animals to create unhealthful or unsanitary conditions for the humans or
animals occupying the premises, or create any other conditions constituting a
nuisance.
   B.   Investigation; Notice; Remedial Action: If such conditions exist, the
Bettendorf police department or the humane society of Scott County is
authorized to make an investigation, and after notice and hearing to the person
or persons occupying or maintaining the residence or premises, or the persons
harboring or maintaining the animals, the chief of police or the chief's
designee may order such number of the animals be removed from the residence or
premises to remedy or correct the unhealthful, unsanitary or other conditions
constituting a nuisance.
   C.   Failure To Comply; Enforcement: Upon the failure of the person or
persons to follow the orders issued by the Bettendorf police department,
appropriate action may be pursued in the courts to enforce the order of the
Bettendorf police department, and/or correct the conditions and/or abate the
nuisance. (2008 Code § 5-9)
5-8-9: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
No person shall allow or permit their animal to damage, injure, or destroy any
shrubbery, plants, flowers, grass, fence, or anything whatsoever upon public or
private property without prior permission from the property owner or authorized
person. (2008 Code § 5-10)
5-8-10: BARKING DOGS:
   A.   Declaration Of Public Nuisance: It shall be unlawful to keep or harbor
any dog which, by frequent, regular, habitual, or continued barking, yelping,
or howling, shall cause serious annoyance to the surrounding neighborhood. Such
action is a violation of this chapter and is also hereby declared a public
nuisance.
   B.   Remedial Action By Police: The animal control officer or a Bettendorf
police officer shall have the authority to use all reasonable means to abate
such nuisance, including, but not limited to, requiring that the owner or
custodian make bona fide efforts to quiet the dog and impoundment of the dog if
the owner or custodian is absent from the premises. If the dog is impounded,
the officer shall attempt to locate and notify the absent owner or custodian by
any reasonable means as soon as possible. (2008 Code § 5-11)
5-8-11: FEEDING WILD DEER, RACCOONS AND COYOTE:
   A.   Prohibition; Exception:
      1.   It is unlawful to feed, provide feed or other attractants, to wild
deer, raccoons and coyote within the city limits.
      2.   This section shall not apply to naturally growing grain, fruit or
vegetable material, gardens, and ornamental plants. (Ord. 26-13, 9-17-2013)
   B.   Penalty: Penalty for violation of this section shall be as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 26-13, 9-17-2013; amd. 2015 Code)
5-8-12: MISTREATMENT OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Cruelty:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to torture, torment, deprive of
necessary sustenance, mutilate, overdrive, overload, overwork, transport in a
cruel or inhumane manner, cruelly beat, cruelly kill, or abandon any animal, or
commit any other act or omission by which unjustifiable pain, distress,
suffering or death is caused or permitted to occur to any animal, unnecessarily
fail to provide any animal with adequate food, adequate water, shelter, or
protection from the weather, whether the acts or omissions in this section are
committed either maliciously, wilfully, or negligently.
      2.   A person who commits the offense of cruelty to animals is guilty of
a simple misdemeanor.
   B.   Court Determine Disposition Of Mistreated Animals: If a person is found
guilty of a violation of this section, the court shall determine the
disposition of the animal or animals involved.
   C.   Poisoning:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to expose any poison, poisonous
meat, or any poisonous substance in any place within the city limits for the
purpose of poisoning any animal.
      2.   A person who violates this subsection C shall be guilty of a simple
misdemeanor.
      3.   This section shall not apply to any person who exposes any such
poison about any premises owned by that person for the purpose of exterminating
insects, spiders, mice, or rats.
      4.   The distribution of any poisonous substance, other than those
specifically for insects, spiders, mice or rats, shall be prima facie evidence
of violations of this section.
   D.   Shooting, Trapping Or Disturbing Dams Or Dens: It shall be unlawful for
any person within the city limits to:
      1.   Wilfully frighten, shoot at, wound, kill, capture, ensnare, net,
trap, or in any manner molest, harass, or injure any bird, fowl or waterfowl,
or in any manner to wilfully molest, damage or injure the nest, eggs, or young
of any such bird, fowl or waterfowl, unless hunting pursuant to a license
issued by the state, on property zoned agricultural, and during a season
authorized by the state.
      2.   Molest or disturb in any manner any muskrat house, beaver dam,
skunk, mink, otter, badger, rabbit, fox, groundhog, weasel, opossum, or raccoon
den except by permission of an officer appointed by the commission; provided,
however, that nothing in this subsection shall prohibit an owner from
destroying any such den, house, or dam for the purpose of protecting his or her
premises.
   E.   Instigating Or Encouraging Animal Fights:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, instigate, encourage,
or permit within the city any dogfight, cockfight, bullfight or other fight
between two (2) or more animals or between animals and humans.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to maintain any place where any animals are
permitted to fight for exhibition, for wages or for sport.
      3.   Ownership of an animal shall not constitute a defense for such acts
or for any violation of this subsection E.
   F.   Abandoning Animals:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any animal or to
cause such to be done, except that a person may deliver a cat or dog to another
person who will accept ownership of such animal or the person may deliver a cat
or dog to an "animal shelter" as defined in this chapter.
      2.   A person who violates this subsection F is guilty of a simple
misdemeanor.
   G.   Capturing Or Killing Furbearing Animals: Except as otherwise provided,
no person shall take, capture, kill, or have in possession any furbearing
animal or any part thereof at any time except during the open season as set by
the department of natural resources under the authority of state law except as
otherwise allowed by law.
   H.   Use Of Traps Regulated:
      1.   Except as otherwise permitted by law, no person shall at any time
use or attempt to use any colony traps in taking, capturing, trapping or
killing any game or furbearing animals.
      2.   Box traps capable of capturing more than one animal at each setting
are prohibited.
      3.   A valid hunting license issued by the state is required for box
trapping cottontail rabbits and squirrels.
      4.   All traps used for the taking of furbearing animals shall comply
with the commission's regulations.
      5.   Police officers, animal control officers, law enforcement officers,
and other persons authorized by the state shall have the authority to
confiscate noncomplying traps when found in use.
   I.   Teasing Confined Animals: It is unlawful for any person to tease or in
any manner to harass any tied, confined, or fenced in animal. (2008 Code § 19-
35)
5-8-13: WILD, EXOTIC AND DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess,
harbor, sell, or in any manner to traffic in the following species of animals:
      1.   All poisonous snakes and poisonous reptiles, gila monsters,
alligators, crocodiles, and caimans.
      2.   Gorillas, chimpanzees, orangutans, baboons, and any other primates.
      3.   Any species of feline not falling within the categories of ordinary
domesticated house cats (felis catus) as established by the American Cat
Association and/or the American Cat Fancier Association.
      4.   Bears of any species.
      5.   Raccoons, porcupines, skunks, badgers, and other furbearing animals,
except ferrets (mustels furo).
      6.   Foxes, wolves, coyotes, or other species of canines other than canis
familiaris. (1980 Code § 19-36)
   B.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to any bona fide zoological
garden, bona fide educational or medical institution, museum, veterinary
hospital, wildlife rescue entity or wildlife rehabilitation entity with an
appropriate permit from the state, any such animals under the jurisdiction of
the commission, game breeders, a circus or carnival licensed by the city, nor
shall it apply to a bona fide research institute or facility using wild, exotic
or dangerous animals for scientific research. In addition, this section shall
not apply to any primate trained and used to assist a disabled person. (1980
Code § 19-36; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   Disposition Of Animals At Large:
      1.   In the event that a wild, exotic or dangerous animal is found at
large, thereby creating a hazard to person or property, such animal may, at the
discretion of the police department or the animal control officer, be destroyed
if it cannot be captured or confined.
      2.   The city shall be under no duty to attempt to confine or capture a
wild, exotic or dangerous animal found at large, nor shall the city have a duty
to notify the owner of such an animal prior to its destruction.
   D.   Seizure Of Animals:
      1.   If a person is found to be keeping, sheltering, or harboring a wild,
exotic or dangerous animal within the city, such animal may be seized
immediately. An animal so seized shall be held for seven (7) days.
      2.   If the person keeping, sheltering or harboring the animal has not
petitioned the court to seek the return of the animal by the end of the seven
(7) day impoundment, the animal shelter shall seek to permanently place the
animal with an organization exempt from the provisions of this section or the
animal shelter shall euthanize the animal.
      3.   The animal shelter shall transfer any animal that requires special
care to a person or facility capable of providing such care. (2008 Code § 19-
36)
5-8-14: VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibition; Definition: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a fierce or vicious animal. For the purpose of this section, the term
"vicious animal" shall mean any animal that, without provocation, bites or
attacks humans or other animals, or in a vicious or terrorizing manner
approaches any person or other animal in an apparent attack posture whether or
not the attack is consummated, or any dog that has been trained for dog/animal
fighting, or any dog that is kept for the purpose of dog/animal fights.
   B.   Keeping For Fighting Or Attacking: No person shall possess or harbor or
maintain care or custody of any dog for the purpose of dogfighting, nor shall
any person train, torment, badger, bait, or use any dog for the purpose of
causing or encouraging the dog to attack human beings or other domestic
animals. (1980 Code § 19-37)
   C.   Police Or Guard Dogs:
      1.   Exception: Subsections A and B of this section shall not apply to
police canines or to guard dogs as defined in section
5-8-1 of this chapter.
      2.   Confinement; Warning Signs:
         a.   Guard dogs shall be confined to an enclosed area adequate to
ensure that they will not escape or shall be under the absolute control of a
handler at all times when not securely enclosed.
         b.   The owner shall post warning signs next to all exterior doors or
gates which state that such a dog is on the premises. Such warning signs shall
be clearly visible from a distance of fifty feet (50'). (1980 Code § 19-37;
amd. 2015 Code)
   D.   Removal Of Animal From City:
      1.   A person harboring or keeping a vicious animal may have the animal
removed from the city.
      2.   If the animal is again found within the city or if the person
chooses not to remove it from the city, an animal control officer shall
immediately seize such vicious animal which shall be held for seven (7) days.
If by the end of the impoundment period, the person keeping, harboring, or
sheltering said vicious animal has not petitioned the court seeking return of
the animal, the animal shelter shall euthanize the animal. (1980 Code § 19-37)
   E.   Violations; Penalties: A person violating subsections A and B of this
section shall be guilty of a simple misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition, the court may order the destruction or other
disposition of the animal involved. (2008 Code § 19-37; amd. 2015 Code)
5-8-15: NUISANCES; NOTICE OF VIOLATION; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Public Nuisance Declared: Any animal which is not confined or kept
under restraint as required by this chapter, and any wild, exotic, dangerous or
vicious animal kept or maintained within the city in violation of this chapter,
and any animal which barks so frequently, regularly, or habitually that it
causes serious annoyance to the surrounding neighborhood, is hereby declared a
public nuisance.
   B.   Notice Ordering Abatement:
      1.   Whenever an animal control officer or police officer determines that
a nuisance exists, the officer may cause a written notice ordering the
abatement of the nuisance to be served upon the owner or custodian. The notice
to abate shall contain a description of what constitutes the nuisance, the
location of the nuisance, a statement of the act or acts necessary to abate the
nuisance, a definite time within which the nuisance shall be abated, which time
shall be reasonable under the circumstance, and a statement that the city will
abate the nuisance if the nuisance is not abated in the manner and within the
time stated and no request for a hearing is made within the time stated.
      2.   Notice to abate shall be served personally upon the owner or
custodian by serving the owner or custodian or any person residing at the
residence who is at least eighteen (18) years old, or by serving the owner or
custodian by certified mail, return receipt requested. If service is by
certified mail, service shall be deemed given when mailed.
   C.   Right Of Appeal; Hearing: Any person aggrieved by the action of this
chapter shall have the following rights of appeal:
      1.   Within five (5) days, the person aggrieved may file a written appeal
to the city administrator. The city administrator shall, within five (5) days,
schedule a hearing, take whatever evidence or information is presented and
shall, within two (2) days thereafter, decide to affirm or reverse the decision
of issuing authority. If the decision is to reverse, the administrator shall
have full power to increase, modify, or revoke the sanction.
      2.   If the person is still aggrieved, further appeal shall be requested
in writing within five (5) days. Such appeal shall be heard by the city council
at its next regularly scheduled meeting. Upon hearing such evidence or
information as shall be produced, the council shall decide whether to affirm,
modify, or reverse the decision of the administrator. No further appeal shall
be granted.
   D.   Failure To Abate; City Action:
      1.   If a person ordered to abate a nuisance neglects or fails to abate
as directed, the city may abate the nuisance.
      2.   If an animal is impounded, the owner or custodian shall be notified
of the impoundment as provided in section
5-8-16 of this chapter. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter,
the impoundment authority shall keep an impounded animal until such time as the
animal control officer or police officer who ordered the abatement notifies the
impoundment authority that the owner or custodian has complied with the order
to abate or has agreed to abate the nuisance in some other manner, in which
case the animal may be released to the owner or custodian after the payment of
any fees or expenses incurred in the care of the animal. If the impoundment is
not notified of the owner or custodian's compliance within twenty one (21) days
of the impoundment after the final appeal, the impounded animal may be disposed
of as otherwise provided by this chapter. (2008 Code § 5-14)
5-8-16: IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURE; REDEMPTION; FEES:
   A.   Animal Shelter:
      1.   The city may establish and maintain a municipal animal shelter or
the city may contract with any nonprofit incorporated society or association
which shall provide and maintain an animal shelter for the enforcement of this
chapter.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the persons authorized by the city to
operate such animal shelter to supervise and control such facility; to cause
the shelter to be kept in a sanitary condition and free from offensive odors;
to provide for adequate food, water and shelter; to provide for the collection
of animals; to handle the destruction or disposition of animals not redeemed;
and to assist in the enforcement and operation of this chapter.
      3.   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforceable by any animal
control officer and by members of the Bettendorf police department.
   B.   Impoundment Procedure: Unrestrained animals found running at large,
nuisance animals, neglected animals, and abandoned animals shall be taken and
impounded in the animal shelter and there confined in a humane manner.
   C.   Notice:
      1.   Upon impounding a licensed animal, the owner or custodian of the
animal shall be given a written notice of the impoundment by the impoundment
authority within two (2) days and the owner shall then have five (5) days to
redeem the animal not counting the day of impoundment.
      2.   If an impounded animal is unlicensed or not displaying a license
pursuant to section
5-8-2 of this chapter, the impoundment authority shall have no obligation to
search for or provide notice to the owner or custodian. (1980 Code § 5-12)
   D.   Claim Fees: A person claiming an impounded dog or cat shall pay any
impound or boarding fees as established by the Scott County Humane Society. In
addition, a license shall be obtained for an unlicensed dog or cat. A person
claiming an animal must also pay any veterinary charges, if any, and such other
costs actually incurred by the animal shelter in the care of the claimed
animal. (1980 Code § 5-12; amd. 2015 Code)
   E.   Diseased Or Injured Animals: No animal need be kept for the period of
notification or impoundment if a licensed veterinarian or an animal control
officer certifies that the animal is so diseased or injured that it is unduly
suffering or cannot survive. In such cases, the animal may be subjected to
humane euthanasia.
   F.   Unclaimed Animals; Disposition; Adoption:
      1.   Animals not reclaimed or redeemed within the time limitations
provided by this chapter shall become the property of the city or animal
shelter and shall be placed for adoption in a suitable home or subjected to
humane euthanasia.
      2.   No unclaimed dog or cat shall be released for adoption to a suitable
home without being sterilized, or without a written agreement from the adopter,
secured by a cash deposit, guaranteeing that such animal will be sterilized.
   G.   Duty To Pay Fees: The refusal to redeem or reclaim any impounded animal
shall not relieve the owner of the duty to pay the impoundment fees, boarding
fees, veterinarian expenses, or any other costs incurred in the care of the
animal. An owner or custodian who refuses to pay such expenses shall be in
violation of this chapter and subject to citation for the same.
   H.   Nonliability: Neither the city nor the animal shelter, nor their agents
and officers enforcing the provisions of this chapter shall be liable for any
accident or subsequent disease that may occur in connection with the
impoundment of any animal pursuant to this chapter. (2008 Code § 5-12)
5-8-17: ENFORCEMENT; CITATIONS; INSPECTION:
   A.   Citations: The officers of any humane society under contract with the
city, as well as the officers of the Bettendorf police department, are
authorized to issue municipal infraction citations charging violations of any
provision of this chapter. The cited person shall receive a copy of the
citation. The officer issuing the citation shall, as soon as practicable, file
a copy of the citation with the court in which the person is required to
appear.
   B.   Unlawful Interference: It is unlawful for any person to interfere with,
hinder, wilfully prevent or attempt to prevent any police officer, animal
control officer, or any person authorized by the city administrator from
enforcing this chapter.
   C.   Inspection Procedures:
      1.   Whenever it becomes necessary to make an inspection to enforce any
of the provisions of, or to perform any duty imposed by, this chapter or other
applicable law, or whenever the animal control officer or other authorized
person has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or
upon any premises any violation of the provisions of this chapter or other
applicable law, the officer is authorized to enter such property at any
reasonable time and to inspect the same and perform any duty imposed upon the
officer by this chapter or other applicable law.
      2.   If the property is occupied, the officer shall first present proper
credentials to the occupant and request entry, explaining the reason entry is
sought.
      3.   If the property is unoccupied, the officer shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person in control of the
property and request entry explaining the reason therefor. If entry is refused,
or the owner or person in control of the property cannot be located after due
diligence, the officer shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to
secure lawful entry and inspect the property.
   D.   Immediate Inspection: Notwithstanding subsection C of this section, if
the animal control officer or police officer has reasonable cause to believe
that the keeping or the maintenance of any animal is so hazardous, unsafe or
dangerous as to require immediate inspection to safeguard the animal or the
public health or safety, the officer shall have the right to immediately enter
and inspect such property, and may use any reasonable means required to effect
such entry and make such investigation, whether the property is occupied or
unoccupied. If occupied, the officer shall first present proper identification
and demand entry explaining the reasons therefor and the purpose of the
inspection. (2008 Code § 5-13)
5-8-18: PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation An Infraction: Unless otherwise provided, any violation of
this chapter shall constitute a municipal infraction and shall be cited and
punishable accordingly. (2008 Code § 5-15; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Fines Imposed: Notwithstanding section
1-4-2 of this code, the following scheduled fines are fixed for municipal
infraction violations:
      1.   Of section
5-8-2 of this chapter (licenses): Twenty dollars ($20.00).
      2.   Of sections
5-8-3 (rabies vaccine),
5-8-6 (running at large), and
5-8-7 (animal waste) of this chapter: First offense twenty five dollars
($25.00), second offense thirty five dollars ($35.00), third offense fifty
dollars ($50.00), fourth or subsequent offenses two hundred dollars ($200.00).
   C.   Fine Imposed By Court: If no scheduled fine is otherwise imposed by
this chapter for a municipal infraction violation, the fine imposed shall be
imposed by the court and by civil penalty as established in section
1-4-2 of this code. (2008 Code § 5-15)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
VEHICLE OPERATION AND TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions Of Words And Phrases
6-1-2: Violations; Notice To Appear; Alternative Procedures
6-1-3: Promise To Appear In Lieu Of Bail
6-1-4: Appearances; Failure To Appear An Offense
6-1-5: Arrest Procedures Not Exclusive
6-1-6: Crossing Guards; Established, Duty To Obey
6-1-7 - 6-1-9: Reserved
6-1-10: School Stop Signs
6-1-11 - 6-1--20A: Reserved
6-1-20B: Insurance Requirements
6-1-21 - 6-1-31: Reserved
6-1-32: Registration Card Carried And Exhibited; Exception
6-1-33 - 6-1-36: Reserved
6-1-37: Display Of Plates
6-1-38: Plates, Method Of Attaching; Imitations Prohibited
6-1-39 - 6-1-45: Reserved
6-1-46: New Title And Registration Upon Transfer Of Ownership
6-1-47 - 6-1-77: Reserved
6-1-78: Injuring Or Tampering With Vehicle
6-1-79 - 6-1-88: Reserved
6-1-89: Abandoned Vehicles
6-1-90 - 6-1-97: Reserved
6-1-98: Operation Without Registration
6-1-99: Fraudulent Use Of Registration
6-1-100 - 6-1-103: Reserved
6-1-104: Penal Offenses Against Title Law
6-1-105 - 6-1-120: Reserved
6-1-121: Parking Position
6-1-122: Reserved
6-1-123: Duty Of Operator Upon Leaving Vehicle Unattended
6-1-124: Generally Prohibited Parking Locations Enumerated
6-1-125: Resident Only Parking
6-1-126: Private Premises; Penalty
6-1-127: Display Of Vehicle For Sale
6-1-128: Blocking Streets, Alleys, Sidewalks; Loading And Unloading
6-1-129: Impoundment Of Vehicles In Violation Of Provisions
6-1-130: Driving On Floodwall
6-1-131: No Parking Zones Enumerated
6-1-132: Limited Parking Zones Generally; Signs
6-1-133: Limited Parking Zones Enumerated
6-1-134: No Parking Zones At Stated Times Enumerated
6-1-135: No Parking Zones Applicable Only To Trucks Enumerated
6-1-136: Parking On Public Ways
6-1-137: Commercial Loading Zones
6-1-138: Parking For Persons With Disabilities
6-1-139: Admitted Violations
6-1-140: Fines
6-1-141: Fire Lanes
6-1-142: Parking Restrictions; Emergency Snow Removal; Cul-De- Sacs
6-1-143: Large Vehicle Parking Allowed
6-1-144: Reserved
6-1-145: Parking Restrictions At Leach Park Area
6-1-146 - 6-1-173: Reserved
6-1-174: Operators Licensed; Operation Of Commercial Motor Vehicles
6-1-174A: Operation Of Vehicle With Expired License
6-1-175 - 6-1-179: Reserved
6-1-180: Instruction Permits
6-1-181 - 6-1-192: Reserved
6-1-193: Restrictions On Licenses
6-1-194: Special Minors' Licenses
6-1-195 - 6-1-215: Reserved
6-1-216: Unlawful Use Of License Or Nonoperator's ID Card
6-1-216B: Use Of Driver's License Or Nonoperator's ID Card By Underage Person
To Obtain Alcohol
6-1-217: Reserved
6-1-218: Operating Without Valid Driver's License Or When Disqualified; Penalty
6-1-219: Permitting Unauthorized Minor To Drive
6-1-220: Permitting Unauthorized Person To Drive
6-1-221 - 6-1-228: Reserved
6-1-229: Obedience To Peace Officers
6-1-230 - 6-1-231: Reserved
6-1-232: Speed Detection Jamming Devices
6-1-233: Reserved
6-1-234: Bicycles, Animals Or Animal Drawn Vehicles
6-1-234A: All-Terrain Vehicles; Highway Use
6-1-235 - 6-1-245: Reserved
6-1-246: Sidewalks
6-1-247: Golf Cart Operation On City Streets
6-1-248: Traffic In Parks
6-1-249 - 6-1-255: Reserved
6-1-256: Obedience To Official Traffic Control Devices
6-1-256A: Avoiding Traffic Control Device
6-1-257 - 6-1-259: Reserved
6-1-260: Interference With Devices, Signs, Or Signals; Unlawful Possession
6-1-261: Reserved
6-1-262: Leaving Scene Of Accident; Damage To Vehicle
6-1-263: Reserved
6-1-264: Striking Unattended Vehicle
6-1-265: Striking Fixtures Upon A Highway
6-1-266: Provisions Refer To Highways; Exceptions
6-1-267 - 6-1-274: Reserved
6-1-275: Operation Of Motorcycles And Motorized Bicycles
6-1-276: Reserved
6-1-277: Reckless Driving
6-1-277A: Careless Driving
6-1-278: Drag Racing Prohibited
6-1-279 - 6-1-283: Reserved
6-1-284: Open Containers In Motor Vehicles; Drivers
6-1-284A: Open Containers In Vehicles; Passengers
6-1-285: Speed Restrictions
6-1-286 - 6-1-287: Reserved
6-1-288: Control Of Vehicle; Reduced Speed
6-1-289 - 6-1-293: Reserved
6-1-294: Minimum Speed Regulation
6-1-295 - 6-1-296: Reserved
6-1-297: Driving On Right Hand Side Of Roadway; Exceptions
6-1-298: Meeting And Turning To Right
6-1-299: Overtaking A Vehicle
6-1-300 - 6-1-301: Reserved
6-1-302: Overtaking On The Right
6-1-303: Limitations On Overtaking On The Left
6-1-304: Prohibited Passing
6-1-305: One-Way Roadways
6-1-306: Roadways Laned For Traffic
6-1-307: Following Too Closely
6-1-308 - 6-1-310: Reserved
6-1-311: Turning At Intersections And Driving Rules For Specific Intersections
6-1-312: Turning On Curve Or Crest Of Grade; U-Turns
6-1-313: Starting Parked Vehicle
6-1-314: When Signal Required
6-1-315: Signal Continuous
6-1-316: Stopping
6-1-317: Signals By Hand And Arm Or Signal Device
6-1-318: Method Of Giving Hand And Arm Signals
6-1-319: Entering Intersections From Different Highways
6-1-320: Left Turns; Yielding
6-1-321: Entering Through Highways
6-1-322: Vehicles Entering Stop Or Yield Intersection
6-1-323: Moving Vehicle Backward On Highway
6-1-323A: Approaching Certain Stationary Vehicles
6-1-324: Operation On Approach Of Emergency Vehicles
6-1-324A: Funeral Processions
6-1-325: Pedestrians Subject To Signals
6-1-326: Pedestrians On Highways
6-1-327: Pedestrians' Right-Of-Way
6-1-328: Crossing At Other Than Crosswalk
6-1-329: Duty Of Driver; Pedestrians Crossing Or Working On Highways
6-1-330: Use Of Crosswalks
6-1-331: Pedestrians Soliciting Rides Or Business
6-1-332: Pedestrians' Right-Of-Way On Sidewalks
6-1-333: Blind Pedestrians, Duty Of Drivers
6-1-334 - 6-1-340: Reserved
6-1-341: Obedience To Signal Of Train
6-1-342: Stop At Certain Railroad Crossings; Posting Warning
6-1-343: Certain Vehicles Must Stop
6-1-344 - 6-1-352: Reserved
6-1-353: Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk; Right-Of-Way
6-1-354: Stopping On Traveled Way
6-1-355 - 6-1-361: Reserved
6-1-362: Unattended Motor Vehicle
6-1-363: Obstruction To Driver's View
6-1-364: Reserved
6-1-365: Coasting Prohibited
6-1-366: Controlled Access Facilities; Unlawful Use; Facilities Established
6-1-367: Following Fire Apparatus
6-1-368: Crossing Fire Hose
6-1-369: Putting Debris On Highway
6-1-370: Reserved
6-1-371: Clearing Up Wrecks
6-1-372: School Buses; Discharging Pupils; Stopping Requirements
6-1-373 - 6-1-380: Reserved
6-1-381: Movement Of Unsafe Or Improperly Equipped Vehicles
6-1-382 - 6-1-383: Reserved
6-1-384: When Lighted Lamps Required
6-1-385: Headlamps On Motor Vehicles
6-1-386: Headlamps On Motorcycles And Motorized Bicycles
6-1-387: Rear Lamps
6-1-388: Illuminating Plates
6-1-389 - 6-1-393: Reserved
6-1-394: Lamp Or Flag On Projecting Load
6-1-395 - 6-1-396: Reserved
6-1-397: Lamps On Bicycles
6-1-398: Lamps On Other Vehicles And Equipment
6-1-399 - 6-1-401: Reserved
6-1-402: Spot Lamps
6-1-403: Auxiliary Driving Lamps
6-1-404: Signal Lamps And Signal Devices
6-1-404A: Light Restricting Devices Prohibited
6-1-405 - 6-1-407: Reserved
6-1-408: Backup Lamps
6-1-409: Mandatory Lighting Equipment
6-1-410 - 6-1-414: Reserved
6-1-415: Required Usage Of Lighting Devices
6-1-416 - 6-1-418: Reserved
6-1-419: Number Of Driving Lamps Required Or Permitted
6-1-420: Number Of Lamps Lighted
6-1-421: Reserved
6-1-422: Red Light In Front; Rear Lights
6-1-423: Flashing Lights
6-1-424 - 6-1-429: Reserved
6-1-430: Brake, Hitch And Control Requirements
6-1-431: Reserved
6-1-432: Horns And Warning Devices
6-1-433: Sirens And Bells Prohibited
6-1-434: Bicycle Sirens Or Whistles
6-1-435: Sound Amplification Systems
6-1-436: Muffles, Prevention Of Noise
6-1-437: Mirrors
6-1-438: Windshields And Windows
6-1-439: Windshield Wipers
6-1-440: Restrictions As To Tire Equipment
6-1-441: Metal Tires Prohibited
6-1-442: Projections On Wheels
6-1-443: Reserved
6-1-444: Safety Glass
6-1-445: Safety Belts And Safety Harnesses; Use Required
6-1-446: Child Restraint Devices
6-1-447 - 6-1-454: Reserved
6-1-455: Projecting Loads On Passenger Vehicles
6-1-456 - 6-1-457: Reserved
6-1-458: Loading Beyond Front
6-1-459: Reserved
6-1-460: Spilling Loads On Highways
6-1-461: Reserved
6-1-462: Drawbars And Safety Chains
6-1-463 - 6-1-470: Reserved
6-1-471: Load Limits On Certain Bridges
6-1-472: Reserved
6-1-473: Truck Routes Established; Vehicles Required To Conform; Permit For
Exceptions; Weighing Vehicles; Signs
6-1-474 - 6-1-483: Reserved
6-1-484: Offenses By Owners
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND PHRASES:
   A.   The words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the same meanings
ascribed in Iowa Code chapter 321, 2013, or as thereafter amended.
   B.   All references to the Iowa Code shall refer to the 2013 enacted version
thereof, or as subsequently amended. (2008 Code § 17-1; amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-2: VIOLATIONS; NOTICE TO APPEAR; ALTERNATIVE PROCEDURES:
Whenever a peace officer of the City has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has violated any provision of this chapter punishable as an offense, the
officer may either:
   A.   Immediately arrest the person and take him before a Magistrate; or
   B.   Without arresting the person, prepare in duplicate a written summons to
appear in court containing the name and address of the person, the operator's
or commercial driver's license number if any, the registration number if any of
his vehicle, the offense charged, and the time and place where such person
shall appear in court.
   C.   If the officer prepares a summons pursuant to this section, the alleged
offender shall be requested to sign it in duplicate, and if he does sign, he
may be released without arrest. In case a summons is issued, the signing of it
constitutes a written promise to appear as stated in the summons. The duplicate
summons shall be presented to the person summoned. (2008 Code § 17-2)
6-1-3: PROMISE TO APPEAR IN LIEU OF BAIL:
In lieu of bail, a Magistrate may release a person arrested for a violation of
this chapter, upon the arrestee's written promise to appear in court for trial
at the time and place designated by the Magistrate. (2008 Code § 17-3)
6-1-4: APPEARANCES; FAILURE TO APPEAR AN OFFENSE:
Any person wilfully violating a summons to appear in court as provided in this
chapter is guilty of an offense, regardless of the disposition of the charge
upon which he was summoned. An appearance in response to a summons may be made
either in person or by counsel. (2008 Code § 17-4)
6-1-5: ARREST PROCEDURES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The provisions of this chapter governing arrest shall govern a peace officer in
making arrests without a warrant for violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter committed in his presence, but the procedure prescribed shall not be
exclusive of any other method prescribed by law for the arrest and prosecution
of a person. (2008 Code § 17-5)
6-1-6: CROSSING GUARDS; ESTABLISHED, DUTY TO OBEY:
The Chief of Police shall have the authority to assign crossing guards to duty
at such times and places as he may deem necessary for the protection of
children proceeding to and from school. No person shall disobey the traffic
control instructions of a crossing guard in the performance of their duty.
(2008 Code § 17-6)
6-1-7 - 6-1-9: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-10: SCHOOL STOP SIGNS:
School stop signs shall be placed in locations visible to motorists and shall
be displayed at such times and places as are approved by the Chief of Police
for the purpose of protecting children attending school. (2008 Code § 17-10)
6-1-11 - 6-1-20A: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-20B: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Notwithstanding chapter 321A, Code of Iowa, which requires certain
persons to maintain proof of financial responsibility, a person shall not drive
a motor vehicle on the highways of this State unless financial liability
coverage, as defined in section 321.1, subsection 24B, Code of Iowa, is in
effect for the motor vehicle and unless the driver has in the motor vehicle the
proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the motor vehicle, or if
the vehicle is registered in another state, other evidence that financial
liability coverage is in effect for the motor vehicle.
   B.   It shall be conclusively presumed that a motor vehicle driven upon a
parking lot which is available to the public without charge or which is
available to customers or invitees of a business or facility without charge was
driven on the highways of this State in order to enter the parking lot, and
this section shall be applicable to such a motor vehicle. As used in this
section, "parking lot" includes access roads, drives, lanes, aisles, entrances,
and exits to and from a parking lot described in this paragraph.
   C.   This section does not apply to the operator of a motor vehicle owned by
or leased to the United States, this State or another state, or any political
subdivision of this State or of another state, or to a motor vehicle which is
subject to section 325A.6, Code of Iowa.
   D.   This section shall be applied and enforced in accordance with section
321.20B4 - 9 Code of Iowa.
   E.   Violations of this section shall be punished as stated in this
subsection:
      1.   For violations of this section occurring in situations not in
conjunction with a motor vehicle accident the penalty shall be two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00).
      2.   For violations of this section occurring in situations related to
motor vehicle accidents, the penalty shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 04-17, 4-18-2017)
6-1-21 - 6-1-31: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-32: REGISTRATION CARD CARRIED AND EXHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
A vehicle's registration card shall at all times be carried in the vehicle to
which it refers and shall be shown to any peace officer upon the officer's
request. This section shall not apply when the registration card is being used
for the purpose of making application for renewal of registration or upon a
transfer of registration for that vehicle. (2008 Code § 17-32; amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-33 - 6-1-36: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-37: DISPLAY OF PLATES:
   A.   Registration plates issued for a motor vehicle other than a motorcycle,
motorized bicycle or a truck-tractor shall be attached to the motor vehicle,
one (1) in the front and the other in the rear. The registration plate issued
for a motorcycle or other vehicle required to be registered hereunder shall be
attached to the rear of the vehicle. The registration plate issued for a truck-
tractor shall be attached to the front of the truck-tractor. The special plate
issued to a dealer shall be attached on the rear of the vehicle when operated
on the highways of this State.
   B.   Registration plates issued for a motor vehicle which is model year 1948
or older, and reconstructed or specially constructed vehicles built to resemble
a model year 1948 vehicle or older, other than a truck registered for more than
five (5) tons, motorcycle, or truck-tractor, may display one (1) registration
plate on the rear of the vehicle if the other registration plate issued to the
vehicle is carried in the vehicle at all times when the vehicle is operated on
a public highway.
   C.   It is unlawful for the owner of a vehicle to place any frame around or
over the registration plate which does not permit full view of all numerals and
letters printed on the registration plate. (2008 Code § 17-37; amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-38: PLATES, METHOD OF ATTACHING; IMITATIONS PROHIBITED:
Every registration plate shall at all times be securely fastened in a
horizontal position to the vehicle for which it is issued so as to prevent the
plate from swinging and at a height of not less than twelve inches (12") from
the ground, measuring from the bottom of the plate, in a place and position to
be clearly visible and shall be maintained free from foreign materials and in a
condition to be clearly legible. An imitation plate or plates imitating or
purporting to imitate the official registration plate of any other state or
territory of the United States or of any foreign government shall not be
fastened to the vehicle. (2008 Code § 17-38)
6-1-39 - 6-1-45: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-46: NEW TITLE AND REGISTRATION UPON TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP:
The purchaser or transferee of a vehicle subject to registration under Iowa
Code chapter 321 shall, within thirty (30) calendar days after purchase or
transfer, apply for and obtain a new registration and a new certificate of
title for the vehicle, in accordance with the provisions of Iowa Code chapter
321. (2008 Code § 17-46)
6-1-47 - 6-1-77: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-78: INJURING OR TAMPERING WITH VEHICLE:
No person either individually or in association with one or more other persons
shall wilfully injure or tamper with any vehicle or break or remove any part or
parts of or from a vehicle without the consent of the owner thereof. (2008 Code
§ 17-78)
6-1-79 - 6-1-88: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-89: ABANDONED VEHICLES:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the terms listed shall have the
meanings ascribed:
    ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any of the following:
      1.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than twenty four (24) hours and lacks current registration plates or two (2) or
more wheels or other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
      2.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more
than twenty four (24) hours.
      3.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked on private property or has
been placed on private property without the consent of the owner or person in
control of the property for more than twenty four (24) hours.
      4.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of ten (10) days.
      5.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police authority
to create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
      6.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Iowa Code section
321J.4B by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the impoundment fees
after notification by the person or agency responsible for carrying out the
impoundment order.
   PROPERTY: Any real property within the city which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the public
as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
   VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, tractors, buggies and
wagons.
   B.   Abandonment Prohibited:
      1.   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the city, and no person
shall leave any vehicle at any place within the city for such a time and under
such circumstances as to cause the vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
      2.   A reasonable amount of time, not less than ten (10) days, will be
given to the owner of any abandoned or inoperable vehicle on private property
to abate the violation.
   C.   Inoperable Vehicles On Private Property; When Allowed: No person in
charge or control of any property within the city, whether as owner, tenant,
occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled,
nonoperating, wrecked, junked or discarded vehicle to remain on such property
longer than forty eight (48) hours; and no person shall leave any such vehicle
on any property within the city for a longer time than seventy two (72) hours.
However, this provision shall not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building, a
vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and
manner when necessary to the operation of the business enterprise or to a
vehicle in an appropriate storage place of depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the city.
   D.   Removal And Disposal: The removal and disposal of abandoned vehicles
shall be in accordance with the provisions of Iowa Code chapter 321. (2008 Code
§ 17-89)
6-1-90 - 6-1-97: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-98: OPERATION WITHOUT REGISTRATION:
No person shall operate, nor shall an owner knowingly permit to be operated
upon any highway any vehicle required to be registered and titled hereunder
unless there shall be attached thereto and displayed thereon when and as
required by this chapter a valid registration card and registration plate or
plates issued therefor for the current registration year and unless a
certificate of title has been issued for such vehicle, except as otherwise
expressly permitted in this chapter or Iowa Code chapter 321. (2008 Code § 17-
98)
6-1-99: FRAUDULENT USE OF REGISTRATION:
A person shall not knowingly lend to another a registration card, registration
plate, special plate, or permit issued to the person if the other person
desiring to borrow the card, plate, or permit would not be entitled to the use
of it. A person shall not knowingly permit the use of a registration card,
registration plate, special plate, or permit issued to the person by one not
entitled to it, nor shall a person knowingly display upon a vehicle a
registration card, registration plate, special plate, or permit not issued for
that vehicle under Iowa Code chapter 321. (2008 Code § 17-99)
6-1-100 - 6-1-103: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-104: PENAL OFFENSES AGAINST TITLE LAW:
It is unlawful for any person to commit any of the following acts:
   A.   To operate any motor vehicle upon the highways upon which the
certificate of title has been canceled, or while a certificate of registration
of a motor vehicle is suspended or revoked.
   B.   For a dealer or a person acting on behalf of a dealer to acquire,
purchase, hold or display for sale a motor vehicle without having obtained a
manufacturer's or importer's certificate or a certificate of title, or
assignments thereof, unless otherwise provided in Iowa Code chapter 321.
   C.   To fail to surrender a certificate of title, registration card, or
registration plates upon cancellation, suspension, or revocation of the
certificate or registration by the state department of transportation and
notice as prescribed in Iowa Code chapter 321.
   D.   To sell, offer for sale, or transfer a motor vehicle, trailer, or
semitrailer, except as provided in Iowa Code section 321.47 or 321.48, without
obtaining a certificate of title in the name of the seller or transferor or
without delivering to the purchaser or transferee a certificate of title or a
manufacturer's or importer's certificate duly assigned to the purchaser or
transferee as provided in this chapter.
   E.   To violate any of the other provisions of this chapter or any lawful
rules adopted pursuant to Iowa Code chapter 321.
   F.   For a manufactured or mobile home retailer to sell or transfer a mobile
home or manufactured home without delivering to the purchaser or transferee a
certificate of title or a manufacturer's or importer's certificate properly
assigned to the purchaser, or to transfer a mobile home or manufactured home
without disclosing to the purchaser the owner of the mobile home or
manufactured home in a manner prescribed by the state department of
transportation pursuant to rules, or to fail to apply for and obtain a
certificate of title for a used mobile home or manufactured home, titled in
Iowa, acquired by the manufactured or mobile home retailer within thirty (30)
days from the date of acquisition as required under Iowa Code section 321.45,
subsection 4. (2008 Code § 17-104; amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-105 - 6-1-120: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-121: PARKING POSITION:
   A.   Except where angle parking is permitted and except on one- way streets,
every vehicle stopped or parked upon the roadway where there is an adjacent
curb shall be so stopped or parked with the right hand wheels of such vehicle
parallel with and within eighteen inches (18") of the right hand curb.
   B.   On one-way streets, every vehicle stopped or parked on the left hand
side of the roadway where there is an adjacent curb shall be so stopped or
parked with the left hand wheels of such vehicle parallel with and within
eighteen inches (18") of the left hand curb. (2008 Code § 17-121)
6-1-122: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-123: DUTY OF OPERATOR UPON LEAVING VEHICLE UNATTENDED:
No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine or, when standing upon any
perceptible grade, without effectively setting the brake thereon and turning
the front wheels to the curb or side of the street. (2008 Code § 17-123)
6-1-124: GENERALLY PROHIBITED PARKING LOCATIONS ENUMERATED:
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   A.   On a sidewalk.
   B.   In front of a public or private driveway.
   C.   Within an intersection.
   D.   Within five feet (5') of a fire hydrant.
   E.   On a crosswalk.
   F.   Within ten feet (10') upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway.
   G.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within ten feet (10') of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings.
   H.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing,
except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red light.
   I.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within
seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly signposted.
   J.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
   K.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street.
   L.   Within a highway tunnel.
   M.   At any place, including private property, where the owner thereof has
consented in writing and where official signs prohibit stopping or parking.
   N.   Within fifteen feet (15') of either side of the entrance of any
theater, auditorium, hotel or other building where large assemblages of people
are being held, except in loading or unloading passengers or freight, and then
only for such length of time as is necessary for such purposes. (2008 Code §
17-124)
   O.   In front of a bike path, fitness trail, curb cut, curb ramp, or jogging
path entrance on public or private property in a manner that blocks access
thereto. (2008 Code § 17-124; amd. 2015 Code)
   P.   In front of any mailbox so as to interfere with the delivery of United
States postal service mail.
   Q.   On or adjacent to the Bettendorf floodwall. (2008 Code § 17-124)
6-1-125: RESIDENT ONLY PARKING:
   A.   City Authority; Parking Permits:
      1.   The city council shall designate those streets or portions of
streets where resident only parking shall be in effect at all times or during
specified hours.
      2.   The resident or residents of dwelling units located within two
hundred feet (200') of such a designated area may obtain from the city police
department for each owned vehicle a parking permit which shall allow parking on
that street in compliance with any posted restriction. These permits shall not
be transferable to other vehicles.
      3.   The city police department may also issue visitor parking permits
for any dwelling unit which is within two hundred feet (200') of such an area.
Visitor parking permits may be displayed only on vehicles not registered to
residents of the dwelling and may be transferred between vehicles. Visitor
parking permits may be displayed only by persons visiting in the home of the
residents to whom the permit was issued.
   B.   Fee Set By Resolution: The city council shall set the fee for such
permits, if any, by resolution.
   C.   Resident Only Parking Zones At All Times: The following areas are
hereby established as resident only parking zones at all times:
Central Avenue, on the north side, from 14th Street to 15th Street.
   D.   Resident Only Parking; Time Restricted:
Brown Street, on both sides, from the 1500 block through the 1600 block, Monday
through Friday, 7:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M.
16th Street, on the west side, from Brown Street to Mississippi Boulevard,
Monday through Friday, 7:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M.
(2008 Code § 17-125)
6-1-126: PRIVATE PREMISES; PENALTY:
   A.   Private Property Of Another Person:
      1.   No person shall, within the city, park or leave unattended any
vehicle on premises to which any other person has the right or possession.
      2.   Every person convicted of violating subsection A1 of this section
shall be punished by a fine of not more than five dollars ($5.00).
   B.   Private Property Within Commercial Or Industrial Zoning District:
      1.   No person shall park or leave unattended any vehicle on private
property located within a commercial or industrial zoning district without the
consent of the owner where the owner of said property has posted signs approved
by the chief of police which meet the following conditions:
         a.   The signs shall be at least twenty four inches (24") high and
thirty six inches (36") wide.
         b.   The signs shall state that parking thereon without the consent of
the owner is a violation of the city ordinance.
         c.   The signs shall state that the fine for violation of this
subsection B is twenty dollars ($20.00).
      2.   Every person convicted of violating subsection B1 of this section
shall be punished by a fine of not more than twenty dollars ($20.00). (2008
Code § 17-126)
6-1-127: DISPLAY OF VEHICLE FOR SALE:
It shall be unlawful to stop, park or place a vehicle on any street or alley
for display or sale purposes. (2008 Code § 17-127)
6-1-128: BLOCKING STREETS, ALLEYS, SIDEWALKS; LOADING AND UNLOADING:
No vehicle shall be allowed to block any alley, street, or sidewalk, except for
vehicles loading and unloading, and for emergency vehicles when such vehicles
are being used in the line of duty. A vehicle shall be presumed to be loading
or unloading when its emergency flashers are on and a sign labeled "loading" is
placed in plain view on the dashboard. No vehicle loading shall be allowed to
fully block a city street for more than five (5) minutes. (2008 Code § 17-128)
6-1-129: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES IN VIOLATION OF PROVISIONS:
Any vehicle parked upon any street, alley, or public place in the city in
violation of these provisions may be removed to a place of storage designated
by the chief of police. (2008 Code § 17-129)
6-1-130: DRIVING ON FLOODWALL:
Except for emergency vehicles or maintenance vehicles, no vehicle shall be
driven on or across the Bettendorf floodwall. (2008 Code § 17-130)
6-1-131: NO PARKING ZONES ENUMERATED:
   A.   No Parking Places: No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any
of the following designated places except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control signal:
Barcelona Street, both sides, from 53rd Avenue to Field Sike Drive.
Belmont Road, on both sides, from Devils Glen Road to Middle Road.
Brentwood Drive, on both sides, from 53rd Avenue to a point 471 feet south of
53rd Avenue.
Brown Street, on the north side, from 13th Street to 14th Street.
Brown Street, on the north side, from 200 feet east of 14th Street to 280 feet
east of 14th Street.
Calvert Drive, on both sides, from 14th Street southwesterly to Mississippi
Boulevard.
Cedarview Court, on the east side, from the centerline of Tanglefoot Lane south
along the east side around the exterior circumference of the cul-de-sac to the
west side of Cedarview Court; then north to a point 618 feet south of the
centerline of Tanglefoot Lane.
Cedarview Court, on the west side, from Willowwood Drive to 50 feet north of
Willowwood Drive.
Cedarwood Court, on the east and north sides, from Tanglefoot Lane to a point
195 feet south and east.
Cedarwood Court, on the west side, from 75 feet south of Maplewood Drive to
Tanglefoot Lane.
Cedarwood Court, on the west side, from 700 feet south of Tanglefoot Lane to
Tanglefoot Lane.
Central Avenue, on the north side, from 18th Street to a point 200 feet east of
its intersection with 18th Street.
Central Avenue, on the north side, from 18th Street to a point 200 feet west of
its intersection with 18th Street.
Central Avenue, on the north side, from 21st Street to 23rd Street.
Central Avenue, on the north side, from 26th Street to a point 70 feet east of
26th Street.
Central Avenue, on the south side, from 14th Street to Devils Glen Road.
Central Lane, on both sides, from Central Avenue to a point 715 feet south of
Central Avenue.
Championship Drive, on both sides, from Forest Grove Drive to Competition
Drive.
Charles Court, on both sides, from North Ridge Circle to 45 feet west of the
end of the median.
Cody Street, on the north side, from 23rd Street to 175 feet west.
Competition Court, on both sides, from Competition Drive to the end.
Competition Dr., on both sides, from Middle Rd. to 150 feet west of Friendship
Path.
Competition Drive, on both sides, from Middle Road to Forest Grove Drive.
Corral Court, on the west side, from 62 feet north of the centerline of Belmont
Road to the centerline of Belmont Road.
Creek Hill Drive, on the south side, from 39th Street to a point 220 feet east
of 39th Street.
Crow Creek Road, on both sides, from Middle Road to Valley Drive.
Crow Creek Road, on both sides, from Utica Ridge Road to Bunker Hill Drive.
Crow Creek Road, on both sides, from 18th Street to a point 55 feet west of
18th Street.
Crow Creek Road, on the north side, from Utica Ridge Road to Hamilton Drive.
Crow Creek Road, on the north side, from 18th Street to a point 110 feet east
of 18th Street.
Crow Creek Road, on the south side, from 18th Street to a point 170 feet east
of 18th Street.
Depot Street, on the north side, from 1,200 feet west of 31st Street to 850
feet west of 31st Street.
Depot Street, on the south side, from 1,200 feet west of 31st Street to 1,100
feet west of 31st Street.
Devils Glen Road, both sides, from State Street to Forest Grove Drive.
Devils Glen Road, on both sides, from State Street to 350 feet north of 53rd
Avenue.
Dodd's Drive, on the northeast side, from the west intersection of Valley View
Drive to the east intersection of Valley View Drive.
Dundee Lane, on the east and south sides, from Maplecrest Road to a point 1,150
feet east of 29th Street.
Dundee Lane, on the west and north sides, from Maplecrest Road to a point 1,185
feet east of 29th Street.
Eastmere Drive, on the east side, from 6th Street, north to the city limits.
Eastwood Court, on both sides, from the centerline of Tanglefoot Lane south
along the east side around the exterior circumference of the cul-de-sac to the
west side of Eastwood Court, then north to the centerline of Tanglefoot Lane.
Falcon Avenue, on the north side, starting at 18th Street, and continuing to
53rd Avenue.
Field Sike Drive, both sides, from Barcelona Street to Devils Glen Road.
Friendship Path, on both sides, from Forest Grove Drive to Competition Drive.
George Thuenen Drive, on both sides, from Lady Luck Parkway to State Street.
Gilbert Street, on the north side, from 12th Street to a point 120 feet west of
13th Street.
Gilbert Street, on the north side, from 250 feet east of the center of 15th
Street to 16th Street.
Gilbert Street, on the south side, from 12th Street to 16th Street.
Golden Valley Drive, on the south and west sides, from Utica Ridge Road to
Tanglefoot Lane.
Golden Valley Drive, on the south side, from Utica Ridge Road to a point 185
feet east of Utica Ridge Road.
Golden Valley Drive, west side, from 245 feet south of centerline of Tanglefoot
Lane to 385 feet south of centerline of Tanglefoot Lane.
Grant Street, on the north side, from 6th Street to 8th Street.
Grant Street, on the north side, from 12th Street to 15th Street.
Grant Street, on the north side, from 18th Street to 19th Street.
Grant Street, on the north side, from 23rd Street to 26th Street.
Grant Street, on the north side, from 26th Street to 27th Street.
Grant Street, on the south side, from 400 feet east of 6th Street to 26th
Street.
Grove Crossing, on the west side, from the intersection at Jakes Lane to the
intersection of Shanes Way.
Happy Joe Drive, on both sides, from 480 feet west of Tech Drive to Middle
Road.
Hawthorne Drive, east side, from Hillside Drive to Cypress Drive.
Hawthorne Drive, on both sides, from Hillside Drive to Summit Hills Drive.
Hillside Drive, on both sides, from Olympia Drive to Hawthorne Drive.
Hillside Drive, on the south side, from Hawthorne Drive to a point 250 feet
west of Hawthorne Drive.
Holly Drive, on both sides, from 50 feet south of Hillside Drive to Hillside
Drive.
Hopewell Avenue, both sides, from Devils Glen Road to Middle Road.
Horizon Court, on the south side, from 400 feet west of Hawthorne Drive to
Hawthorne Drive.
Indiana Avenue, on the north side, from 1,250 feet east of Barr Street to 900
feet west of Middle Road.
International Drive, on both sides, from 75 feet south of Forest Grove Drive to
Forest Grove Drive.
Isle Parkway, on both sides, from 270 feet west of 141/2 Street to George
Thuenen Drive.
Johnathan Avenue, on the north side, from Devils Glen Road to a point 560 feet
west of Devils Glen Road.
Johnathan Avenue, on the south side, from Devils Glen Road to a point 105 feet
west of Devils Glen Road.
Joshua Street, on the east and west sides, 112 feet south from Hopewell Avenue.
Kimberly Ridge Road at Lincoln Road.
Kimberly Road, on both sides, from Mississippi Boulevard northerly to Middle
Road.
Kimberly Road, on the east side, from Middle Road north to the City limits.
Kohles Court, on the south side, from 23rd Street to the alley east of 23rd
Street.
Kynnelworth Avenue, on both sides, from 18th Street to Kynnelworth Drive.
Kynnelworth Drive, on the northwest side, from Kynnelworth Avenue to a point
541 feet southwest of Kynnelworth Avenue.
Lincoln Road, on both sides, from Kimberly Road to 1230 Lincoln Road.
Lincoln Road, on both sides, from 18th Street to a point 300 feet east of its
intersection with 18th Street.
Lincoln Road, on both sides, from 18th Street to a point 300 feet west of its
intersection with 18th Street.
Lincoln Road, on both sides, west of Kimberly Road for 55 feet west of the
nearest west curb line.
Lincoln Road, on the north side, from the driveway at 1620 Lincoln Road to a
point 80 feet east.
Lincoln Road, on the south side, from 1230 Lincoln Road to 14th Street.
Linden Lane, on the east side, from the Hillside Drive intersection to a point
40 feet north of Hillside Drive.
Linden Lane, on the west side, from Hillside Drive to Spruce Hills Drive.
Magnolia Drive, on the east side, from Cypress Drive to Hillside Drive.
Maiden Lane, on both sides.
Mallard Court, from the driveway at 4190 Mallard Court to 20 feet south.
Maplewood Drive, on the east and north sides, from Tanglefoot Lane to Cedarview
Court.
Maplewood Drive, on the south side, from 80 feet west of Cedarview Court to
Cedarview Court.
Middle Road, on both sides, from Kimberly Road to Indiana Avenue.
Mississippi Boulevard, on both sides, from 13th Street to 14th Street.
Mississippi Boulevard, on the north side, from 12th Street to 13th Street.
Mississippi Boulevard, on the north side, from 15th Street back of curbs to 35
feet east and west of 15th Street.
Moencks Road from Valley Drive to Crow Creek Road.
New Lexington Drive, south side, from New Lexington Court to 45 feet west of
the centerline of New Lexington Court.
Oakbrook Drive, on both sides, from Middle Road to the south intersection of
Oakbrook Place.
Olympia Drive, on the east side, from Middle Road to a point 200 feet north of
its intersection with Middle Road.
Olympia Drive, on the east side, from 117 feet south of Hillside Drive to a
point 98 feet north of Hillside Drive.
Olympia Drive, on the west side, from Middle Road to Spruce Hills Drive.
Ontario Dr., on the south side, from Pandit Dr. to 120 feet east of E. Slate
Creek Dr.
Parkway Drive, on the side closest to Duck Creek, for its entire length.
Parkwild Drive, on the north side, from 45 feet east of Fairview Drive to 70
feet west of Fairview Drive.
Parkwild Drive, on the northwest side, from 70 feet east of 31st Street to 70
feet west of 31st Street.
Parkwild Drive, on the south side, from Prairie Lane to Devils Glen Road.
Parkwild Drive, on the southeast side, from Tanglefoot Lane to Fairview Drive.
Quail Ridge Road, on the northeast side, from Belmont Road to 100 feet north of
Belmont Road.
Quail Ridge Road, on the south side, from 689 feet north of the centerline of
Belmont Road to the centerline of Belmont Road.
Quail Ridge Road, on the south side, from 689 feet north of the centerline of
Belmont Road to Woodfield Drive.
Rambling Court, on the south side, from 75 feet east of the centerline of
Rambling Road to the centerline of Rambling Road.
Rambling Road, on the east side, from the centerline of Trail's End Road to the
centerline of Silver Spur Road.
Ridge Point, on the east side, from Belmont Road to Middle Road.
Ridgeway Court, on the south side, from 21st Street west to the turnaround.
River Drive, on both sides, from west City limits to 8th Street.
Riverview Lane, on both sides, from the south right-of- way line of Central
Avenue, in a southerly direction to a point 720 feet from its intersection with
Central Avenue.
Shoreline Drive, on the west side, from 62nd Street Court to River Bend Road.
Silver Oaks Lane, on the east side, from the centerline of Tanglewood Road
north 380 feet.
Silver Spur Court, on the east side, from 93 feet south of the centerline of
Silver Spur Road to the centerline of Silver Spur Road.
Silver Spur Road, on the south side, from 194 feet east of the centerline of
Rambling Road to the centerline of Spencer Drive.
South Grant Street, on both sides, from Grant Street to River Drive.
Spencer Drive, on the east side, from 160 feet north of the centerline of
Silver Spur Road to the centerline of Trail's End Road.
Spruce Hills Drive, on both sides, from Middle Road to the west City limits.
Stafford Boulevard, east side, from Middle Road to a point 200 feet north of
Middle Road.
Stafford Boulevard, on the west side, from Middle Road to Maplecrest Road.
State Street, on both sides, from Fenno Road to the east City limits.
State Street, on both sides, from 26th Street to the west City limits of
Riverdale.
State Street, on the north side, from 12th Street to 25 feet east of 14th
Street.
State Street, on the north side, from 70 feet west of 11th Street to 11th
Street.
State Street, on the north side, from 70 feet west of 17th Street to 17th
Street.
State Street, on the south side, from 917 State Street to 943 State Street.
State Street, on the south side, from 12th Street to 15th Street.
State Street, on the south side, from 18th Street to a point 50 feet east of
its intersection with 18th Street.
State Street, on the south side, from 200 feet east of 16th Street to George
Thuenen Drive.
Stender Street, on the south side, from 23rd Street to 24th Street.
Tanglefoot Lane, on both sides, from Utica Ridge Road to 200 feet east of YMCA
entrance.
Tanglewood Road, both sides, from Devils Glen Road to Middle Road.
Tech Drive, on both sides, from Happy Joe Drive to Victoria Street.
Towne Pointe Drive (3300 block), on the east side, from Belmont Road to 3487
Towne Pointe Drive.
Trail's End Road, on the north side, from Woodcrest Drive to 255 feet west of
the centerline of Spencer Drive.
Trail's End Road, on the north side, from 255 feet west of the centerline of
Spencer Drive to the centerline of Rambling Road.
Utica Ridge Road, on both sides, from Summit Hills Drive to Crow Creek Road.
Valley Drive, on both sides, from Fenno Road to the east City limits.
Valley View Drive, on the southwest side, from Valley Drive to the west
intersection with Dodd's Drive.
Victoria Street, on both sides, from 300 feet south of Maplecrest Road to
Maplecrest Road.
Vogel Court, on both sides, from Devils Glen Road to a point 85 feet east of
Devils Glen Road.
Welshire Drive, on both sides, from Spruce Hills Drive to 132 feet north of
Spruce Hills Drive.
Whispering Hill Drive, on both sides, from Buckskin Trail to a point 500 feet
north and west.
Willow Drive, on both sides, from Tech Drive to 330 feet east of Tech Drive.
Willow Drive, on the east side, from Maplecrest Road to 440 feet east of Tech
Drive.
Willowwood Drive, on the north side, from Cedarview Court to a point 400 feet
west of the centerline of Cedarview Court.
Willowwood Drive, on the south side, from Cedarview Court west along the south
side around the exterior circumference of the cul-de-sac to the north side of
Willowwood Drive.
Winston Drive, on the south side, from 100 feet west of the centerline of
Devils Glen Road to Devils Glen Road.
Woodland Lane, on the west side, from Hillside Drive to a point 100 feet north
of Hillside Drive.
6th Street, on the east side, from River Drive north to Eastmere Drive.
6th Street, on the west side, from River Drive to 137 feet north of River
Drive.
6th Street, on the west side, from the alley south of Grant Street to a point
34 feet south of the alley south of Grant Street.
8th Street, on the east side, from State Street to Grant Street.
8th Street, on the west side, from State Street to 90 feet north of the
centerline of State Street.
12th Street, on both sides, from State Street to the Mississippi River.
12th Street, on the west side, from the alley south of Grant Street to Grant
Street.
13th Street, on both sides, from Gilbert Street to State Street.
13th Street, on both sides, from Mississippi Boulevard to State Street.
13th Street, on the east side, starting at 125 13th Street, and continuing
south to the end of 13th Street.
14th Street, both sides, from Middle Road to 200 feet south of the
intersection.
14th Street, both sides, from Mississippi Boulevard northerly to Central
Avenue.
14th Street, on both sides, from Mississippi Boulevard to State Street.
15th Street, both sides, from 190 feet south of Central Avenue to 340 feet
south of Central Avenue.
16th Street, on both sides, from Gilbert Street to State Street.
16th Street, on the east side, from Grant Street to the alley north of Brown
Street.
16th Street, on the east side, from Mississippi Boulevard to the alley
immediately south of Mississippi Boulevard.
16th Street, on the east side, from State Street to Grant Street.
16th Street, on the west side, from 120 feet south of Grant Street to Grant
Street.
17th Street, on both sides, from 424 feet south of Central Avenue to Central
Avenue.
17th Street, on the east side, 30 feet south and 30 feet north of alley,
located 1/2 block north of Grant Street.
17th Street, on the west side, from Brown Street to Mississippi Boulevard.
17th Street, on the west side, from Brown Street to the alley north of Grant
Street.
18th Street, on both sides, from a point 200 feet north of its intersection
with Central Avenue to a point 200 feet south of its intersection with Central
Avenue.
18th Street, on both sides, from State Street to 50 feet north of Brown Street.
18th Street, on both sides, to a point 200 feet south of its intersection with
Middle Road to Glen Eagles Drive.
18th Street, on the west side, from 70 feet south of Mississippi Boulevard to
70 feet north of Mississippi Boulevard.
20th Street, on the east side, from State Street to Grant Street.
21st Street, on the west side, from State Street to Central Avenue.
23rd Street, on both sides, from State Street to a point 296 feet south of
State Street.
23rd Street, on the east side, from a point 60 feet south of Glenn Street to a
point 70 feet north of Glenn Street.
23rd Street, on the east side, from a point 360 feet north of Lincoln Road to
the Duck Creek Bridge.
23rd Street, on the east side, from Central Avenue to a point 55 feet north of
Central Avenue.
23rd Street, on the east side, from Grant Street to 50 feet north from the back
of curb of Grant Street.
23rd Street, on the east side, from Lincoln Road to a point 360 feet north of
Lincoln Road.
23rd Street, on the east side, from State Street to the alley north of Grant
Street.
23rd Street, on the east side, from the Duck Creek Bridge to Middle Road.
23rd Street, on the east side, from 55 feet north of Coleman Street to 75 feet
south of Coleman Street.
23rd Street, on the east side, from 55 feet south of Oak Lane to 55 feet north
of Oak Lane.
23rd Street, on the west side, from State Street to Middle Road.
25th Street, on the west side, from the Oak Street intersection extending 115
feet north.
26th Street, on both sides, from Central Avenue to a point 50 feet north of
Central Avenue.
26th Street, on the east side, from 25 feet south of the alley north of Central
Avenue to the alley north of Central Avenue.
26th Street, on the west side, from State Street to 520 feet north of Eddy
Street.
27th Street, on the east side, from Central Avenue to 600 feet south of Erin
Street.
27th Street, on the east side, from Grant Street to State Street.
27th Street, on the west side, from State Street to a point 50 feet north of
State Street.
27th Street, on the west side, from the south line of Central Avenue to 63 feet
south of the south line of Central Avenue.
29th Street, on the east side, from Middle Road to a point 400 feet north of
Middle Road.
31st Street, on both sides, from Parkwild Drive north 35 feet as measured from
the marked crosswalk.
31st Street, on both sides, from 300 feet south of State Street to State
Street.
33rd Street, on both sides, from its junction with U.S. Highway 67, southerly
to its southern terminus.
39th Street, on the east side, from a point 100 feet south of Creek Hill Drive
to a point 230 foot east of Creek Hill Drive.
39th Street, on the west side, from State Street to a point 230 feet east of
Creek Hill Drive.
53rd Avenue, on both sides, from Remington Road to Judge Road.
53rd Avenue, on both sides, from the west City limits to Remington Road.
56th Avenue West, on both sides, from 18th Street west to the city limits.
   B.   Thirty Five Foot Distance: No person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle on the approach side a distance of thirty five feet (35') in advance of
stop signs and on the exit side for a distance of thirty five feet (35') beyond
the far crosswalk at the following designated places except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer:
Asbury Street at Tanglefoot Lane.
Avalon Drive at Spruce Hills Drive.
Bellevue Avenue west of 23rd Street.
Broadlawn Drive at 6th Street.
Brookside Drive at 18th Street.
Brown Street at 13th Street.
Brown Street at 14th Street.
Cedarview Court at Tanglefoot Lane.
Cedarwood Court at Tanglefoot Lane.
Central Avenue east of 23rd Street.
Clover Hills Road at Tanglefoot Lane.
Coleman Street at 23rd Street.
Cypress Drive at Hillside Drive.
Deerbrook Drive at Devils Glen Road.
Devils Glen Court at Devils Glen Road.
Eastwood Court at Tanglefoot Lane.
Echodale Drive at 18th Street.
El Dorado Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
Fairview Drive at Parkwild Drive.
Greenwood Avenue at River Drive.
Halcyon Drive at Devils Glen Road.
Harmony Drive at Spruce Hills Drive.
Hawthorne Drive at Hillside Drive.
Hillcrest Drive at Spruce Hills Drive.
Holiday Court at Devils Glen Road.
Holiday Court, both sides, around the cul-de-sac from the first radius return
of the cul-de-sac on the north side of Holiday Court to the last radius return
of the cul-de- sac on the south side.
Holmes Street at east approach to 6th Street.
Hyperion Road at Spruce Hills Drive.
Kimberly Ridge Road at Lincoln Road.
Kingsway Drive at 18th Street.
Lincoln Road at 23rd Street.
Linden Lane at Devils Glen Road.
Linden Lane at Spruce Hills Drive.
Magnolia Drive at Hillside Drive.
Magnolia Drive at Spruce Hills Drive.
Manchester Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
Maplewood Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
Midland Hill at Tanglefoot Lane.
Mississippi Boulevard at 13th Street.
New Lexington Drive at 18th Street.
Oak Street west of 23rd Street.
Oakory Lane at Devils Glen Road.
Oakwood Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
Olympia Drive at Spruce Hills Drive.
Oxford Drive at Spruce Hills Drive.
Parkdale Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
Parkwild Drive at Devils Glen Road.
Parkwild Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
Pinehurst Drive at 18th Street (both intersections).
Pleasant Drive at Devils Glen Road.
Rolling Hills Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
Rollingwood Court at Tanglefoot Lane.
South Hampton Drive at Spruce Hills Drive.
South Hampton Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
Southview Drive at 18th Street (both intersections).
Summit Hills Drive at Spruce Hills Drive.
Tam-O-Shanter North at Tanglefoot Lane.
Tanglefoot Court at Tanglewood Lane.
Tanglefoot Terrace at Tanglefoot Lane.
Utica Ridge Road at Spruce Hills Drive.
Wakonda Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
Waveland Drive at 18th Street (both intersections).
Weindruch Road at State Street.
Welshire Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
Westmar Drive at Spruce Hills Drive.
Westwood Road at Spruce Hills Drive.
Windsor Drive at Spruce Hills Drive.
Winston Drive at Devils Glen Road.
Woodland Lane at Spruce Hills Drive.
Woodmayr Road at Spruce Hills Drive.
4th Street at River Drive.
8th Street at Grant Street.
10th Street at Grant Street.
10th Street at State Street.
11th Street at Grant Street.
11th Street at State Street.
12th Street at Grant Street.
12th Street at State Street.
15th Street at Central Avenue.
15th Street at Grant Street.
15th Street at Mississippi Boulevard.
15th Street at State Street.
16th Street at Grant Street.
16th Street at State Street.
17th Street at Grant Street.
17th Street at State Street.
19th Street at Grant Street.
19th Street at State Street.
20th Street at Grant Street.
20th Street at State Street.
21st Street at Grant Street.
22nd Street at Grant Street.
261/2 Street at State Street.
27th Street at State Street.
28th Street at State Street.
281/2 Street at State Street.
29th Street at State Street.
30th Street at State Street.
33rd Street at State Street.
39th Street at State Street.
42nd Street at State Street.
62nd Street Court at State Street.
   C.   Thirty Foot Distance: No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle on
approach side a distance of thirty feet (30') in advance of near crosswalks,
and on the exit side for a distance of thirty feet (30') beyond the far
crosswalks at the following designated places except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic control signal:
26th Street at State Street.
35th Street at State Street.
   D.   Fifty Five Foot Distance: No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle
on approach side a distance of fifty five feet (55') in advance of near
crosswalks and on exit side a distance of fifty five feet (55') beyond the far
crosswalks at the following designated places except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer:
Grant Street, on north side, at 8th Street.
Grant Street, on north side, at 10th Street.
Grant Street, on north side, at 15th Street.
Grant Street, on north side, at 17th Street.
Grant Street, on north side, at 19th Street.
Grant Street, on north side, at 20th Street.
Grant Street, on north side, at 21st Street.
Grant Street, on north side, at 22nd Street.
State Street, on north side, at 8th Street.
   E.   Signs Posted: Signs containing the applicable parking limitations shall
be placed in appropriate places on the streets to inform the public of the
places where parking is prohibited or restricted.
   F.   Emergency Vehicle Exception: Nothing contained herein shall be deemed
to prohibit the parking of emergency vehicles in a no parking or parking
restricted zone when such parking is necessary to respond to an emergency or to
enforce provisions of this chapter. (2008 Code § 17-131; amd. Ord. 06-13, 3-19-
2013; Ord. 08-13, 4-2-2013; Ord. 17-13, 8-20-2013; Ord. 10-14, 5-6-2014; Ord.
23-14, 11-4-2014; Ord. 05-15, 4-7-2015; Ord. 21-15, 10-6-2015; Ord. 02-16, 1-
19-2016; Ord. 04-16, 2-16-2016; Ord. 13-16, 6-7-2016; Ord. 14-16, 6-21-2016;
Ord. 29-16, 12-20-2016; Ord. 02-17, 2-21-2017; Ord. 24-17, 7-5-2017; Ord. 13-
18, 6-19-2018; Ord. 27-18, 12-18-2018; Ord. 11-19, 6-4-2019; Ord. 05-20, 4-7-
2020; Ord. 09-21, 5-18-2021; Ord. 14-21, 7-20-2021; Ord. 13-22, 9-6-2022; Ord.
18-22, 10-4-2022; Ord. 20-23, 9-5-2023; Ord. 23-23, 10-17-2023)
6-1-132: LIMITED PARKING ZONES GENERALLY; SIGNS:
   A.   No person shall park a vehicle for a consecutive period of time longer
than that indicated in any of the places designated in section
6-1-133 of this chapter.
   B.   Signs indicating the specific parking limitation shall be placed in
appropriate locations marking the zone and providing notice to the public of
the specific parking limitation whenever the restriction alters the general
requirement that parking on streets is limited to twelve (12) consecutive
hours. (2008 Code § 17-132)
6-1-133: LIMITED PARKING ZONES ENUMERATED:
No person shall park a vehicle for a consecutive period of time longer than
that indicated in any of the following places:
TEN MINUTES:
State Street, north side, from 135 feet east of the center of 10th Street to
170 feet east of the center of 10th Street.
State Street, north side, from 598 feet east of the center of 23rd Street to
628 feet east of the center of 23rd Street.
TEN MINUTES, 6:30 A.M. - 6:30 P.M.:
Grant Street, north side, from 16th Street to 80 feet east of 16th Street.
Grant Street, north side, from 80 feet west of 16th Street to 16th Street.
State Street, north side, from 230 feet east of 21st Street to 320 feet east of
21st Street.
State Street, south side, from 35 feet east of 10th Street to 100 feet east of
10th Street.
State Street, south side, from 140 feet west of 11th Street to 50 feet west of
11th Street.
State Street, south side, from 170 feet east of 10th Street to 140 feet west of
11th Street.
State Street, south side, from 190 feet east of 17th Street to a point 220 feet
east of 17th Street.
FIFTEEN MINUTES:
Brown Street, on the south side, from 200 feet west of 16th Street, to 16th
Street.
16th Street, on the west side, from the alley north of Grant Street to Brown
Street.
THIRTY MINUTES:
16th Street, on the west side, from Grant Street to the alley north of Grant
Street.
ONE HOUR:
State Street, north side, from 15th Street to 16th Street.
State Street, north side, from 17th Street to 230 feet east of 21st Street.
State Street, north side, from 320 feet east of 21st Street to 26th Street.
State Street, south side, from 8th Street to 35 feet east of 10th Street.
State Street, south side, from 50 feet west of 11th Street to 12th Street.
State Street, south side, 15th Street to 16th Street.
State Street, south side, 17th Street to 21st Street.
State Street, south side, 23rd Street to 26th Street.
10th Street, on the east side, from State Street to Grant Street.
10th Street, on the west side, from the alley south of Grant Street to Grant
Street.
11th Street, on both sides, from State Street to Grant Street.
17th Street, on both sides, from State Street to Grant Street.
19th Street, on both sides, from State Street to Grant Street.
20th Street, on the west side, from State Street to Grant Street.
ONE HOUR, 6:00 A.M. - 6:00 P.M.:
State Street, north side, 11th Street to 12th Street.
State Street, north side, 16th Street to 17th Street.
State Street, south side, 16th Street to 200 feet east of 16th Street.
TWO HOURS:
Brown Street, on the south side, from 160 feet west of 15th Street to 15th
Street.
Central Avenue, on the north side, from 70 feet east of 26th Street to 146 feet
east of 26th Street.
Grant Street, on the north side, from 15th Street to 80 feet west of 16th
Street.
Grant Street, on the north side, from 80 feet east of 16th Street to 18th
Street.
State Street, on the north side, from 10th Street to a point 20 feet west of
11th Street excepting the existing 10 minute limited parking.
15th Street, on the west side, from the alley north of Grant Street to Brown
Street.
17th Street, on the east side, from Grant Street to Brown Street.
21st Street, on the east side, from State Street to Grant Street.
(2008 Code § 17-133)
TWO HOURS, 8:00 A.M. - 5:00 P.M.:
Quail Ridge Road, on the north side, from Belmont Road to Fairfield Drive.
19th Street, from Grant Street to Mississippi Boulevard.
20th Street, from Grant Street to Mississippi Boulevard.
(2008 Code § 17-133; amd. Ord. 05-13, 3-19-2013)
TWELVE HOURS:
Municipal parking lot, adjacent to and east of the Bettendorf City Hall.
On any street in the city.
(2008 Code § 17-133)
6-1-134: NO PARKING ZONES AT STATED TIMES ENUMERATED:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any of the following
designated places except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control
signal, during any of the times indicated:
8:00 A.M. - 4:00 P.M., WHEN SCHOOL IS IN SESSION:
Lincoln Road, on both sides, from 130 feet east of Broadview Drive to 286 feet
east of Broadview Drive.
Maplecrest Road, on both sides, from 18th Street to 170 feet west of Willow
Drive.
Mississippi Boulevard, on the south side, from 120 feet west of 15th Street to
170 feet east of 15th Street.
18th Street, on the west side, from 30 feet south of Parkway Drive to 540 feet
north of Lincoln Road.
(2008 Code § 17-134; amd. Ord. 08-20, 4-21-2020)
6-1-135: NO PARKING ZONES APPLICABLE ONLY TO TRUCKS ENUMERATED:
The following no parking zones apply to trucks with a gross vehicle weight of
more than three (3.0) tons:
Brown Street, on the north side, from 14th Street to 200 feet east of 14th
Street.
Mississippi Boulevard, on both sides, between 14th Street and 16th Street.
State Street, on the north side, from 102 feet west of 15th Street to 15th
Street.
State Street, on the north side, from 85 feet west of 16th Street to 16th
Street.
State Street, on the north side, from 80 feet west of 17th Street to 17th
Street.
State Street, on the north side, from 93 feet west of 19th Street to 19th
Street.
State Street, on the north side, from 106 feet west of 20th Street to 20th
Street.
State Street, on the north side, from 73 feet west of 21st Street to 21st
Street.
State Street, on the north side, from 150 feet east of 23rd Street to 305 feet
east of 23rd Street.
State Street, on the south side, from 23rd Street to 300 feet east of 23rd
Street.
State Street, on the south side, from 410 feet west of 26th Street to 26th
Street.
(2008 Code § 17-135)
6-1-136: PARKING ON PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Prohibition: No person shall park a motor vehicle, trailer or
semitrailer on the portion of the street between the abutting property line and
the curb or, where no curb exists, the edge of the pavement, except on a
driveway/approach constructed pursuant to the provisions of section
7-2-4 of this code. For purposes of this section, "the pavement" shall mean the
improved portion of a street which is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or for parking.
   B.   Exception: Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this
section, parking shall be allowed within said areas on the following public
streets:
Valley Drive, on both sides, from a point 900 feet east of Criswell Street to
the east city limits.
(2008 Code § 17-136)
6-1-137: COMMERCIAL LOADING ZONES:
   A.   Restrictions: The locations designated in subsection C of this section
shall be designated as commercial loading zones, and within these zones parking
shall be prohibited between the designated hours, except that commercial
loading is permitted during such time period subject to the restriction that no
vehicle shall park in any such loading zone for the purpose of loading and
unloading at any one time to exceed fifteen (15) minutes.
   B.   Signs Posted: Signs indicating the parking limitation shall be placed
in appropriate places on the streets to inform the public of the parking limits
prescribed by this section. (2008 Code § 17-137)
   C.   Commercial Loading Zones Designated:
State Street, on the south side, from 55 feet east of the center of 15th Street
to a point 90 feet east of the center of 15th Street, 6:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M.
2244 State Street (1 commercial loading zone parking space 6:00 A.M. to 5:00
P.M.).
(2008 Code § 17-137; amd. Ord. 11-15, 5-19-2015)
6-1-138: PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
   A.   Persons With Disabilities Zones On City Streets: The council shall by
resolution establish zones designated "Persons With Disabilities Parking Only",
which shall be limited to the use of vehicles transporting persons having
physical disabilities, or vehicles used by personnel providing support services
to any person having a disability. The beginning of each persons with
disabilities parking zone shall be designated by posting of a sign to provide
notice of the zone, and the zone shall exist for a distance of fourteen feet
(14') from such sign so as to enable one vehicle to park within the zone, with
the front bumper of such vehicle to be parked immediately adjacent to the
persons with disabilities parking zone. When the zone is to be larger than
fourteen feet (14'), a second sign shall be posted marking the end of the zone.
   B.   Persons With Disabilities Zones Off City Streets: The chief of police
may, with the consent of the owners thereof, establish persons with
disabilities parking areas, in addition to those required under state law, for
persons with disabilities for off street public parking facilities provided by
the state or a political subdivision of the state or off street, privately
owned, public parking facilities.
   C.   Penalty For Violation: Any vehicle occupying a "Persons With
Disabilities Parking Only Zone" not in compliance with subsection A of this
section shall subject the owner of the vehicle to the penalty provisions of
this code. (2008 Code § 17-138; amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-139: ADMITTED VIOLATIONS:
In all cases of violations of the provisions of this chapter regulating the
standing or parking of vehicles, such parking violations which are admitted may
be charged and collected upon a notice of fine, payable to the city clerk. Such
violations which are not admitted or the fine paid within seven (7) days after
the date of the violation shall be deemed denied, and the violations shall be
prosecuted the same as any other violation of this code. The date of the notice
of fine shall be presumptive evidence of the date of the violation. (2008 Code
§ 17-139)
6-1-140: FINES:
The penalty for violation of this chapter regulating the standing or parking of
vehicles which are charged upon a notice of fine shall be as follows:
   A.   Violations of sections
6-1-121 and
6-1-133 of this chapter: The sum of five dollars ($5.00).
   B.   Violations of section
6-1-138 of this chapter: The sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   C.   All other violations of this chapter regulating the standing or parking
of vehicles: The sum of five dollars ($5.00) unless otherwise stated in this
chapter. (2008 Code § 17-140)
6-1-141: FIRE LANES:
   A.   Prohibition: Parking of motor vehicles or otherwise obstructing fire
lanes shall be prohibited at all times. (2008 Code § 17-141; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Nuisance Declared: Any motor vehicle obstructing or which may obstruct
the movement of any emergency vehicle is declared to be a nuisance per se and
the motor vehicle shall be removed and impounded. (2008 Code § 17-141)
6-1-142: PARKING RESTRICTIONS; EMERGENCY SNOW REMOVAL; CUL-DE- SACS:
   A.   Snow Emergency, Power To Declare Conferred:
      1.   The mayor, or in the mayor's absence the mayor pro tem, with advice
of the city administrator and the director of public works, is hereby granted
the power to declare a "snow emergency" whenever snow or ice accumulations or
forecast accumulations of snow or ice, or when drifting snow has or is likely
to render various streets impassable for ordinary passenger cars; and when it
is necessary to prohibit or restrict parking on city streets.
      2.   A snow emergency declaration shall state the beginning time for the
snow emergency. The snow emergency shall not begin until four (4) hours after
its declaration. The city administrator shall inform quadcity area radio and
television stations that the snow emergency parking regulations for Bettendorf
will be in effect and request public service announcements to be made. Such
other actions to inform the public of its duties during the emergency may be
taken as are deemed by the city administrator to be advisable.
      3.   Appropriate signs giving motorists notice of this section shall be
posted.
      4.   Cancellation of a snow emergency declaration, in whole or in part,
shall be made in the same manner as the declaration is announced by the mayor.
   B.   Parking Of Vehicles: When a snow emergency is declared, it shall be the
duty of any person having a vehicle parked on a city street to remove it within
four (4) hours of the declaration and parking shall be permitted only as
follows:
      1.   On all streets on which parking is allowed on both sides under
current ordinance, vehicles shall be parked on the even street numbered side of
the street on even days of the month until after the changeover time.
      2.   On all streets on which parking is allowed on both sides under
current ordinance, vehicles shall be parked on the odd street numbered side of
the street on odd days of the month until after the changeover time.
      3.   On all streets where parking is allowed on one side only under
current ordinance, vehicles shall park on the side parking is allowed only on
odd days of the month until after the changeover time. Parking shall not be
allowed on the even days of the month.
      4.   No parking shall be allowed in the cul-de-sac portion (turnaround
area) of a dead end street.
      5.   For the purpose of this section, "even days of the month" shall be
defined as starting at seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on the even day of the month
and ending at seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day.
      6.   For the purpose of this section, "odd days of the month" shall be
defined as starting at seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on the odd day of the month
and ending at seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day.
      7.   All other parking regulations and prohibitions shall remain in
effect.
   C.   Changeover Time: The changeover time referred to in subsection B of
this section shall be between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. following a snow emergency declaration. During the hours
between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M., vehicles may be
parked on either side of a street on which parking normally would be allowed on
both sides.
   D.   Towing Of Improperly Parked Vehicles: Any vehicle found to be parked
where not permitted during a snow emergency may be towed away on orders of the
chief of police.
   E.   Fine: Violation of the provisions of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   F.   Cul-De-Sacs: No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in the cul-
de-sac portion (turnaround area) of a dead end street after a snowfall with a
total accumulation of two inches (2") or more until the paved portion of the
cul-de-sac has been cleared of snow.
   G.   Certain Streets: No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle on the
following streets after a snowfall with a total accumulation of two inches (2")
or more until the paved portion of the street has been cleared of snow:
Ginger Creek Road from Hopewell Avenue to end
Orchard Drive from Tanglewood Road to Tanglefoot Lane
Partridge Circle from Parkwild Drive to end
   H.    Public Parking Lots: No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in
the 15th Street and 18th Street public parking lots between the hours of twelve
o’clock (12:00) A.M. and eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. after a snowfall with a
total accumulation of two inches (2") or more until the lot has been cleared of
snow. (2008 Code § 17-142; amd. Ord. 02-23, 1-3-2023; Ord. 03-23, 1-3-2023)
6-1-143: LARGE VEHICLE PARKING ALLOWED:
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except a truck with a gross
vehicle weight of three (3.0) tons or more at any of the following designated
places except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or a traffic control signal:
State Street, on the south side, from 300 feet east of 23rd Street to 410 feet
west of 26th Street.
(2008 Code § 17-143)
6-1-144: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-145: PARKING RESTRICTIONS AT LEACH PARK AREA:
   A.   No vehicle shall park on the grass, sidewalk, or other area designated
and signed as no parking in Leach Park.
   B.   In the area described as follows:
A parcel of railroad right of way located between 12th and 13th Streets,
Bettendorf, Iowa, bordered on the north by Gilbert Street and on the south by
main track;
such area being leased to the city for parking lot, no vehicle may park
therein, except for vehicles pulling boat trailers. (2008 Code § 17-145)
6-1-146 - 6-1-173: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-174: OPERATORS LICENSED; OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   Operator's License Required: A person, except those expressly exempted,
shall not operate any motor vehicle upon a highway unless the person has a
motor vehicle license issued by the state department of transportation valid
for the vehicle's operation.
   B.   Operating Commercial Motor Vehicles: A person operating a commercial
motor vehicle shall not have more than one motor vehicle license. A nonresident
may operate a commercial motor vehicle if the nonresident has been issued a
license by another state, a nonresident commercial driver's license, or a motor
vehicle license issued by a foreign jurisdiction which the federal highway
administration has determined to be issued in conformity with the federal
commercial driver testing and licensing standards, if the license, commercial
driver's license, or motor vehicle license is valid for the vehicle operated.
No person shall operate a commercial motor vehicle upon the highway without
having been issued a motor vehicle license valid for the vehicle operated.
(2008 Code § 17-174)
   C.   Immediate Possession Of License: A licensee shall have the licensee's
motor vehicle license in immediate possession at all times when operating a
motor vehicle and shall display the same, upon demand of a judicial magistrate,
district associate judge, district judge, peace officer, or examiner of the
state department of transportation. However, a person charged with violating
this subsection shall not be convicted if the person produces in court, within
a reasonable time, a motor vehicle license issued to that person and valid for
the vehicle operated at the time of the person's arrest or at the time the
person was charged with a violation of this section. Upon dismissal, the court
or clerk of the court shall assess the costs of the action against the
defendant named on the citation. (2008 Code § 17-174; amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-174A: OPERATION OF VEHICLE WITH EXPIRED LICENSE:
A person shall not operate a motor vehicle upon a highway with an expired motor
vehicle license. (2008 Code § 17-174A)
6-1-175 - 6-1-179: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-180: INSTRUCTION PERMITS:
   A.   Driver's Instruction Permit:
      1.   Issuance Of Permit; Limitations:
         a.   A person who is at least eighteen (18) years of age and who,
except for the person's lack of instruction in operating a motor vehicle, would
be qualified to obtain a driver's license, shall, upon meeting the requirements
of Iowa Code section 321.186 other than a driving demonstration, and upon
paying the required fee, be issued an instruction permit by the state
department of transportation. Subject to the limitations in this subsection, an
instruction permit entitles the permittee, while having the permit in the
permittee's immediate possession, to operate a motor vehicle, other than a
commercial motor vehicle or as a chauffeur or a motor vehicle with a gross
vehicle weight rating of sixteen thousand one (16,001) or more pounds, upon the
highways for a period not to exceed four (4) years from the licensee's birthday
anniversary in the year of issuance. If the applicant for an instruction permit
holds a driver's license issued in this state valid for the operation of a
motorized bicycle or a motorcycle, the instruction permit shall be valid for
such operation without the need of an accompanying person.
         b.   A permittee shall not be penalized for failing to have the
instruction permit in immediate possession if the permittee produces in court,
within a reasonable time, an instruction permit issued to the permittee and
valid at the time of the permittee's arrest or at the time the permittee was
charged with failure to have the permit in the permittee's immediate
possession.
      2.   Person Accompanying Permittee:
         a.   Except as otherwise provided, a permittee who is eighteen (18)
years of age or older must be accompanied by a person issued a driver's license
valid for the vehicle operated who is a member of the permittee's immediate
family if the family member is at least twenty one (21) years of age, an
approved driver education instructor, a prospective driver education instructor
who is enrolled in a practitioner preparation program with a safety education
program approved by the state board of education, or a person at least twenty
five (25) years of age, and who is actually occupying a seat beside the driver.
         b.   However, if the permittee is operating a motorcycle in accordance
with this section or Iowa Code section 321.180B, the accompanying person must
be within audible and visual communications distance from the permittee and be
accompanying the permittee on or in a different motor vehicle. Only one
permittee shall be under the immediate supervision of an accompanying qualified
person.
   B.   Commercial Driver's Instruction Permit: A person who holds a class A,
B, C, or D driver's license, upon meeting each of the following requirements,
shall be eligible to apply for a commercial driver's instruction permit valid
for the operation of a commercial motor vehicle, except a vehicle transporting
hazardous materials requiring placarding, when the permittee is accompanied by
a person properly licensed to operate a commercial motor vehicle and actually
occupying a seat beside the permittee. An applicant must be at least eighteen
(18) years of age and qualified to obtain a valid commercial driver's license
including the requirements of Iowa Code section 321.188 other than the
knowledge examination and driving skills tests. The commercial driver's
instruction permit shall be valid for a period not to exceed six (6) months. A
commercial driver's instruction permit may be renewed only once in any two (2)
year period. If the applicant for a commercial driver's instruction permit
holds a driver's license issued in this state valid for the operation of a
commercial or noncommercial vehicle, the commercial driver's instruction permit
shall be valid for such operation without the need of an accompanying person.
   C.   Chauffeur's Instruction Permit: A person, upon meeting each of the
following requirements, shall be eligible to apply for a chauffeur's
instruction permit valid for the operation of a motor vehicle, other than a
commercial motor vehicle, as a chauffeur when the permittee is accompanied by a
person, possessing a valid class D driver's license or commercial driver's
license valid for the operation of the motor vehicle and the accompanying
person is actually occupying a seat beside the permittee. An applicant must be
at least eighteen (18) years of age; otherwise qualified to obtain a class D
driver's license, and must meet the requirements of Iowa Code section 321.186
other than a driving demonstration. The chauffeur's instruction permit shall be
valid for a period not to exceed two (2) years from the licensee's birthday
anniversary in the year of issuance and shall be returned to the state
department of transportation upon issuance of a class D driver's license or
commercial driver's license. If the applicant for a chauffeur's instruction
permit holds a driver's license issued under this chapter, the chauffeur's
instruction permit shall be valid in the same manner as the driver's license
would be for the operation of motor vehicles without the need of an
accompanying person.
   D.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Permits: The instruction permit,
chauffeur's instruction permit, and commercial driver's instruction permit are
subject to suspension or revocation for the same reasons and in the same manner
as suspension or revocation of a driver's license.
   E.   Motorcycle Instruction Permit Not Renewable: A motorcycle instruction
permit issued under this section is not renewable. (2008 Code § 17-180; amd.
2015 Code)
6-1-181 - 6-1-192: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-193: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSES:
It is unlawful for a person to operate a motor vehicle in any manner in
violation of the restrictions imposed on a restricted license issued to that
person. (2008 Code § 17-193)
6-1-194: SPECIAL MINORS' LICENSES:
   A.   Driver's License Issued For Travel To And From School: Upon
certification of a special need by the school board, superintendent of the
applicant's school, or principal, if authorized by the superintendent, the
state department of transportation may issue a class C or M driver's license to
a person between the ages of fourteen (14) and eighteen (18) years whose
driving privileges have not been suspended, revoked, or barred under this
chapter or Iowa Code chapter 321J during, and who has not been convicted of a
moving traffic violation or involved in a motor vehicle accident for, the six
(6) month period immediately preceding the application for the special minor's
license and who has successfully completed an approved driver education course.
However, the completion of a course is not required if the applicant
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the department that completion of the
course would impose a hardship upon the applicant. The department shall adopt
rules defining the term "hardship" and establish procedures for the
demonstration and determination of when completion of the course would impose a
hardship upon an applicant.
      1.   The driver's license entitles the holder, while having the license
in immediate possession, to operate a motor vehicle other than a commercial
motor vehicle or as a chauffeur:
         a.   During the hours five o'clock (5:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. over the most direct and accessible route between the licensee's residence
and schools of enrollment or the closest school bus stop or public
transportation service, and between schools of enrollment, for the purpose of
attending duly scheduled courses of instruction and extracurricular activities
within the school district.
         b.   To a service station for the purpose of refueling, so long as the
service station is the station closest to the route the licensee is traveling
on under subsection A1a of this section.
         c.   At any time when the licensee is accompanied in accordance with
Iowa Code section 321.180B, subsection 1.
      2.   Unless accompanied in accordance with Iowa Code section 321.180B,
subsection 1, a person issued a driver's license pursuant to this section must
limit the number of unrelated minor passengers in the motor vehicle when the
licensee is operating the motor vehicle to one. For purposes of this section,
"unrelated minor passenger" means a passenger who is under eighteen (18) years
of age and who is not a sibling of the driver, a stepsibling of the driver, or
a child who resides in the same household as the driver.
      3.   Each application shall be accompanied by a statement from the school
board, superintendent, or principal, if authorized by the superintendent, of
the applicant's school. The statement shall be upon a form provided by the
state department of transportation. The school board, superintendent, or
principal, if authorized by the superintendent, shall certify that a need
exists for the license and that the board, superintendent, or principal
authorized by the superintendent is not responsible for actions of the
applicant which pertain to the use of the driver's license. Upon receipt of a
statement of necessity, the department shall issue the driver's license. The
fact that the applicant resides at a distance less than one mile from the
applicant's school of enrollment is prima facie evidence of the nonexistence of
necessity for the issuance of a license. The school board shall develop and
adopt a policy establishing the criteria that shall be used by a school
district administrator to approve or deny certification that a need exists for
a license. The student may appeal to the school board the decision of a school
district administrator to deny certification. The decision of the school board
is final. The driver's license shall not be issued for purposes of attending a
public school in a school district other than either of the following:
         a.   The district of residence of the parent or guardian of the
student.
         b.   A district which is contiguous to the district of residence of
the parent or guardian of the student, if the student is enrolled in the public
school which is not the school district of residence because of open enrollment
under Iowa Code section 282.18 or as a result of an election by the student's
district of residence to enter into one or more sharing agreements pursuant to
the procedures in Iowa Code chapter 282.
      4.   a.   A person issued a driver's license under this section shall not
use an electronic communication device or an electronic entertainment device
while driving a motor vehicle unless the motor vehicle is at a complete stop
off the traveled portion of the roadway. This subsection does not apply to the
use of electronic equipment which is permanently installed in the motor vehicle
or to a portable device which is operated through permanently installed
equipment.
         b.   For the period beginning July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011,
peace officers shall issue only warning citations for violations of subsection
A4a of this section. The state department of transportation, in cooperation
with the state department of public safety, shall establish educational
programs to foster compliance with the requirements of subsection A4a of this
section.
   B.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License: A driver's license issued under
this section is subject to suspension or revocation for the same reasons and in
the same manner as suspension or revocation of any other driver's license. The
state department of transportation may also suspend a driver's license issued
under this section upon receiving satisfactory evidence that the licensee has
violated the restrictions of the license or has been involved in one or more
accidents chargeable to the licensee. The department may suspend a driver's
license issued under this section upon receiving a record of the licensee's
conviction for one violation. The department shall revoke the license upon
receiving a record of conviction for two (2) or more violations of a law of
this state or a city ordinance regulating the operation of motor vehicles on
highways other than parking violations as defined in Iowa Code section 321.210.
After a person licensed under this section receives two (2) or more convictions
which require revocation of the person's license under this section, the
department shall not grant an application for a new driver's license until the
expiration of one year.
   C.   Citations For Violation Of Restrictions: A person who violates the
restrictions imposed under subsection A1 or A4 of this section may be issued a
citation under this section and shall not be issued a citation under Iowa Code
section 321.193. A violation of the restrictions imposed under subsection A1 or
A4 of this section shall not be considered a moving violation. (2008 Code § 17-
194; amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-195 - 6-1-215: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-216: UNLAWFUL USE OF LICENSE OR NONOPERATOR'S ID CARD:
It is unlawful for any person:
   A.   To display or cause or permit to be displayed or have in the person's
possession a canceled, revoked, suspended, fictitious, or fraudulently altered
motor vehicle license or nonoperator's identification card.
   B.   To lend that person's motor vehicle license or nonoperator's
identification card to another person or knowingly permit the use of the
license by another.
   C.   To display or represent as one's own a motor vehicle license or
nonoperator's identification card not issued to that person.
   D.   To fail or refuse to surrender to the state department of
transportation upon its lawful demand a motor vehicle license or nonoperator's
identification card which has been suspended, revoked, or canceled.
   E.   To permit an unlawful use of a motor vehicle license or nonoperator's
identification card issued to that person. (2008 Code § 17-216)
6-1-216B: USE OF DRIVER'S LICENSE OR NONOPERATOR'S ID CARD BY UNDERAGE PERSON
TO OBTAIN ALCOHOL:
It is unlawful for a person who is under the age of twenty one (21) to alter or
display or have in the person's possession a fictitious or fraudulently altered
driver's license or nonoperator's identification card and to use the license to
violate or attempt to violate Iowa Code section 123.47 or subsection 5-5C-3B of
this code. (2008 Code § 17-216B; amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-217: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-218: OPERATING WITHOUT VALID DRIVER'S LICENSE OR WHEN DISQUALIFIED;
PENALTY:
A person whose driver's license or operating privilege has been denied,
canceled, suspended, or revoked as provided in Iowa Code chapters 321 and 321A
or as provided in Iowa Code section 252J.8 or 901.5, subsection 10, and who
operates a motor vehicle upon the highways of this state while the license or
privilege is denied, canceled, suspended, or revoked, commits a simple
misdemeanor. (2008 Code § 17-218)
6-1-219: PERMITTING UNAUTHORIZED MINOR TO DRIVE:
No person shall cause or knowingly permit the person's child or ward under the
age of eighteen (18) years to drive a motor vehicle upon any highway when such
minor is not authorized hereunder or in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter. (2008 Code § 17-219)
6-1-220: PERMITTING UNAUTHORIZED PERSON TO DRIVE:
A person shall not knowingly authorize or permit a motor vehicle owned by the
person or under the person's control to be driven upon a highway by a person
who is not issued a driver's license valid for the vehicle's operation. (2008
Code § 17-220; amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-221 - 6-1-228: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-229: OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS:
No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control, or regulate traffic. (2008 Code § 17-229)
6-1-230 - 6-1-231: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-232: SPEED DETECTION JAMMING DEVICES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   SPEED DETECTION JAMMING DEVICE: Any active or passive device, instrument,
mechanism, or equipment that is designed or intended to interfere with,
disrupt, or scramble the radar or laser that is used by a peace officer to
measure the speed of motor vehicles. "Speed detection jamming device" does not
include equipment that is legal under federal communications commission
regulations, such as a citizens' band radio, a ham radio, or other similar
electronic equipment.
   SPEED MEASURING DEVICE: Includes, but is not limited to, devices commonly
known as radar speed meters or laser speed meters.
   B.   Prohibition: A person shall not sell, operate, or possess a speed
detection jamming device, except as otherwise provided in this section, when
the device is in a vehicle operated on the highways of this state or the device
is held for sale in this state.
   C.   Exception: This section does not apply to speed measuring devices
purchased by, held for purchase for, or operated by, peace officers using the
devices in performance of their official duties.
   D.   Authority To Seize: A speed detection jamming device sold, operated, or
possessed in violation of subsection B of this section may be seized by a peace
officer and is subject to forfeiture as provided by Iowa Code chapter 809 or
809A. (2008 Code § 17-232; amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-233: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-234: BICYCLES, ANIMALS OR ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES:
   A.   Animals Or Animal Drawn Vehicles: A person riding an animal or driving
an animal drawing a vehicle upon a roadway is subject to the provisions of this
chapter applicable to the driver of a vehicle except those provisions of this
chapter which by their nature can have no application.
   B.   Riding Bicycles:
      1.   A person, including a peace officer, riding a bicycle on the street
is subject to the provisions of this chapter and has all the rights and duties
under this chapter applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those
provisions of this chapter which by their nature can have no application or
those provisions for which specific exceptions have been set forth regarding
police bicycles.
      2.   A person propelling a bicycle on the street shall not ride other
than upon or astride a permanent and regular seat attached to the bicycle.
      3.   A person shall not use a bicycle on the street to carry more persons
at one time than the number of persons for which the bicycle is designed and
equipped.
      4.   This section does not apply to the use of a bicycle in a parade
authorized by proper permit. (2008 Code § 17-234)
6-1-234A: ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES; HIGHWAY USE:
   A.   Conditions For Driving On Highway: All-terrain vehicles shall not be
operated on a highway unless one or more of the following conditions apply:
      1.   The operation is between sunrise and sunset and is incidental to the
vehicle's use for agricultural purposes.
      2.   The operation is incidental to the vehicle's use for the purpose of
surveying by a licensed engineer or land surveyor.
      3.   The all-terrain vehicle is operated by an employee or agent of a
political subdivision or public utility for the purpose of construction or
maintenance on or adjacent to the highway.
      4.   The all-terrain vehicle is operated by an employee or agent of a
public agency as defined in Iowa Code section 34.1 for the purpose of providing
emergency services or rescue.
      5.   The all-terrain vehicle is operated for the purpose of mowing,
installing approved trail signs, or providing maintenance on a snowmobile or
all-terrain vehicle trail designated by the department of natural resources.
   B.   Driver's License Required: A person operating an all- terrain vehicle
on a highway shall have a valid driver's license and the vehicle shall be
operated at speeds of thirty five (35) miles per hour or less.
   C.   Use By Landowner: An all-terrain vehicle that is owned by the owner of
land adjacent to a highway, other than an interstate road, may be operated by
the owner of the all- terrain vehicle, or by a member of the owner's family, on
the portion of the highway right of way that is between the shoulder of the
roadway, or at least five feet (5') from the edge of the roadway, and the
owner's property line. (2008 Code § 17-234A)
6-1-235 - 6-1-245: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-246: SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle upon any
sidewalk. (2008 Code § 17-246)
6-1-247: GOLF CART OPERATION ON CITY STREETS:
   A.   Use Of City Streets: Golf carts may be operated on city streets by
persons possessing a valid driver's license. However, a golf cart shall not be
operated upon a city street which is a primary thoroughfare through the city
but shall be allowed to cross a city street which is a primary thoroughfare
through the city. (2008 Code § 17-247; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Safety Requirements: The golf carts shall be equipped with a slow
moving vehicle sign and a bicycle safety flag and operate on the streets only
from sunrise to sunset.
   C.   Brakes: Golf carts operated on city streets shall be equipped with
adequate brakes.
   D.   Registration Not Required: Golf carts are not subject to the
registration provisions of this chapter. (2008 Code § 17-247)
6-1-248: TRAFFIC IN PARKS:
   A.   Vehicles Restricted: No person shall operate a motor vehicle or
motorized vehicle on bicycle paths, fitness trails, jogging paths or park
grounds except roads and parking lots. No such operation shall be allowed when
the park is closed. This section shall not be construed to prohibit public
safety vehicles from operating in the parks at any time.
   B.   Park Hours: All parks shall close at ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M.
each day and shall open no earlier than five thirty o'clock (5:30) A.M. unless
otherwise authorized by the board of park commissioners. All parks shall have
the hours of operation posted.
   C.   Speed Limit: The maximum speed permitted of any motor vehicle in a city
park shall be fifteen (15) miles per hour.
   D.   Vehicle Registration And Driver's License: All motor vehicles required
to be registered by the state or this code shall likewise require such
registration prior to operation on a city park road or parking area. No person
shall operate a motor vehicle on a city park road or parking area without first
being licensed therefor, as required by the state or this code. (2008 Code §
17-248)
6-1-249 - 6-1-255: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-256: OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Compliance Required: No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any official traffic control device placed in accordance with
the provisions of Iowa Code chapter 321, unless at the time otherwise directed
by a peace officer subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle.
   B.   Certain Intersections: The driver of a vehicle approaching the
following intersections shall not be permitted to turn right or to turn left
when facing a steady red indication from the traffic signal light controlling
vehicular traffic in his lane:
Kimberly Road and Middle Road: Approaching Middle Road from the south on
Kimberly Road.
6th Street, River Drive, and South Grant Street: Approaching River Drive and
South Grant Street from the north on 6th Street.
(2008 Code § 17-256)
6-1-256A: AVOIDING TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE:
It is unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel across private
property to avoid an official traffic control device. (2008 Code § 17-256A)
6-1-257 - 6-1-259: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-260: INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES, SIGNS, OR SIGNALS; UNLAWFUL POSSESSION:
   A.   Defacing; Penalty; Restitution: A person who wilfully and
intentionally, without lawful authority, attempts to or in fact alters,
defaces, injures, knocks down, or removes an official traffic control device,
an authorized warning sign or signal or barricade, whether temporary or
permanent, a railroad sign or signal, an inscription, shield or insignia on any
of such devices, signs, signals, or barricades, or any other part thereof,
shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a simple misdemeanor and shall be
required to make restitution to the affected jurisdiction.
   B.   Illegal Possession; Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person to
have in the person's possession any official traffic control device except by
legal right or authority. Any person convicted of unauthorized possession of
any official traffic control device shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty
of a simple misdemeanor. (2008 Code § 17-260)
6-1-261: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-262: LEAVING SCENE OF ACCIDENT; DAMAGE TO VEHICLE:
The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in damage to a
vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall immediately stop such
vehicle at the scene of such accident or as close thereto as possible but shall
forthwith return to and in every event shall remain at the scene of such
accident until the driver has fulfilled the requirements of Iowa Code section
321.263. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary. (2008 Code § 17-262)
6-1-263: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-264: STRIKING UNATTENDED VEHICLE:
The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle which is unattended
shall immediately stop and shall then and there either locate and notify the
operator or owner of such vehicle of the name and address of the driver and
owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle or shall leave in a
conspicuous place in the vehicle struck a written notice giving the name and
address of the driver and of the owner of the vehicle doing the striking and a
statement of the circumstances thereof. (2008 Code § 17-264)
6-1-265: STRIKING FIXTURES UPON A HIGHWAY:
The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in damage to property
legally upon or adjacent to a highway shall take reasonable steps to locate and
notify the owner, a peace officer, or person in charge of the damaged property
of the damage and shall inform the person of the driver's name and address and
the registration number of the vehicle causing the damage and shall, upon
request and if available, exhibit the driver's license and shall report the
accident when and as required in Iowa Code section 321.266. (2008 Code § 17-
265; amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-266: PROVISIONS REFER TO HIGHWAYS; EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter relating to the operation of vehicles refer
exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon highways, except:
   A.   Where a different place is specifically referred to in a given section.
   B.   The provisions of sections
6-1-126,
6-1-137,
6-1-138,
6-1-141, 6-1-256A, 6-1-262, 6-1-264, 6-1-265, 6-1-277, and 6-1-277A of this
chapter shall apply upon highways and elsewhere throughout the city. (2008 Code
§ 17-266)
6-1-267 - 6-1-274: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-275: OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORIZED BICYCLES:
   A.   General: The motor vehicle laws apply to the operators of motorcycles
and motorized bicycles to the extent practically applicable.
   B.   Riders:
      1.   Motorized Bicycles: A person operating a motorized bicycle on the
highways shall not carry any other person on the vehicle.
      2.   Motorcycles: A person shall not operate or ride a motorcycle on the
highways with another person on the motorcycle unless the motorcycle is
designed to carry more than one person. The additional passenger may ride upon
the permanent and regular seat if designed for two (2) persons, or upon another
seat firmly attached to the motorcycle at the rear of the operator. The
motorcycle shall be equipped with footrests for the passenger unless the
passenger is riding in a sidecar or enclosed cab. The motorcycle operator shall
not carry any person nor shall any other person ride in a position that will
interfere with the operation or control of the motorcycle or the view of the
operator.
   C.   Sitting Position: A person operating a motorcycle or motorized bicycle
shall ride only upon the vehicle's permanent and regular attached seat. Every
person riding upon the vehicle shall be sitting astride the seat, facing
forward with one leg on either side of the vehicle.
   D.   Use Of Traffic Lanes: Persons shall not operate motorcycles or
motorized bicycles more than two (2) abreast in a single lane. Except for
persons operating such vehicles two (2) abreast, a motor vehicle shall not be
operated in a manner depriving a motorcycle or motorized bicycle operator of
the full use of a lane. A motorcycle or motorized bicycle shall not be operated
between lanes of traffic or between adjacent lines or rows of vehicles. The
operator of a motorcycle or motorized bicycle shall not overtake and pass in
the same lane occupied by the vehicle being overtaken unless the vehicle being
overtaken is a motorcycle or motorized bicycle.
   E.   Headlights On: A person shall not operate a 1977 or later model year
motorcycle or any model year motorized bicycle upon the highways without
displaying at least one lighted headlamp of the type described in Iowa Code
section 321.409.
   F.   Packages: The operator of a motorcycle or motorized bicycle shall not
carry any package, bundle, or other article which prevents the operator from
keeping both hands on the handlebars. (2008 Code § 17-275)
   G.   Parades: The provisions of this section do not apply to motorcycles or
motorized bicycles when used in a parade authorized by proper permit from the
chief of police.
   H.   Bicycle Safety Flags Required On Motorized Bicycles: When operated on a
highway, a motorized bicycle shall have a bicycle safety flag which extends not
less than five feet (5') above the ground attached to the rear of the motorized
bicycle. The bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area of
not less than thirty (30) square inches, and be Day-Glo in color. (2008 Code §
17-275; amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-276: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-277: RECKLESS DRIVING:
No person shall drive any vehicle in such manner as to indicate either a wilful
or a wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property. (2008 Code § 17-
277)
6-1-277A: CARELESS DRIVING:
A person commits careless driving if the person intentionally operates a motor
vehicle on a public or private road or highway in any one of the following
ways:
   A.   Creates or causes unnecessary tire squealing, skidding, or sliding upon
acceleration or stopping.
   B.   Simulates a temporary race.
   C.   Causes any wheel or wheels to unnecessarily lose contact with the
ground.
   D.   Causes the vehicle to unnecessarily turn abruptly or sway. (2008 Code §
17-277A)
6-1-278: DRAG RACING PROHIBITED:
No person shall engage in any motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition of
speed on any street or highway and no person shall aid or abet any motor
vehicle speed contest or speed exhibition on any street or highway, except that
a passenger shall not be considered as aiding and abetting. "Motor vehicle
speed contest" or "exhibition of speed" are defined as one or more persons
competing in speed in excess of the applicable speed limit in vehicles on the
public street. (2008 Code § 17-278)
6-1-279 - 6-1-283: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-284: OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES; DRIVERS:
   A.   A driver of a motor vehicle upon a public street or highway shall not
possess in the passenger area of the motor vehicle an open or unsealed bottle,
can, jar, or other receptacle containing an alcoholic beverage. "Passenger
area" means the area designed to seat the driver and passengers while the motor
vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to the driver
or a passenger while in their seating positions, including the glove
compartment. An open or unsealed receptacle containing an alcoholic beverage
may be transported in the trunk of the motor vehicle. An unsealed receptacle
containing an alcoholic beverage may be transported behind the last upright
seat of the motor vehicle if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk. A person
convicted of a violation of this section is guilty of a simple misdemeanor
punishable as a scheduled violation under Iowa Code section 805.8A, subsection
14, paragraph e.
   B.   A person under the age of twenty one (21) who violates this section is
guilty of a violation of Iowa Code section 123.47. (2008 Code § 17-284; amd.
2015 Code)
6-1-284A: OPEN CONTAINERS IN VEHICLES; PASSENGERS:
   A.   Possession In Passenger Area; Transporting:
      1.   A passenger in a motor vehicle upon a public street or highway shall
not possess in the passenger area of the motor vehicle an open or unsealed
bottle, can, jar, or other receptacle containing an alcoholic beverage.
      2.   "Passenger area" means the area of a motor vehicle designed to seat
the driver and passengers while the motor vehicle is in operation and any area
that is readily accessible to the driver or a passenger while in their seating
positions, including the glove compartment.
      3.   An open or unsealed receptacle containing an alcoholic beverage may
be transported in the trunk of the motor vehicle. An unsealed receptacle
containing an alcoholic beverage may be transported behind the last upright
seat of the motor vehicle if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk.
   B.   Exceptions: This section does not apply to a passenger being
transported in a motor vehicle designed, maintained, or used privately for the
transportation of persons for compensation, or a passenger being transported in
the living quarters of a mobile home, motor home, mobile homes, travel
trailers, or fifth wheel travel trailers. (2008 Code § 17-284A)
   C.   Penalty: A person convicted of a violation of this section is guilty of
a simple misdemeanor, punishable as a scheduled violation under Iowa Code
section 805.8A, subsection 14. (2008 Code § 17-284A; amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-285: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Careful And Prudent Speed: Any person driving a motor vehicle on a
highway shall drive the same at a careful and prudent speed not greater than
nor less than is reasonable and proper, having due regard to the traffic,
surface and width of the highway and of any other conditions then existing, and
no person shall drive any vehicle upon a highway at a speed greater than will
permit the person to bring it to a stop within the assured clear distance
ahead, such driver having the right to assume, however, that all persons using
said highway will observe the law.
   B.   Maximum Speeds: Unless otherwise provided by this chapter or other city
ordinances and appropriately posted, the maximum permissible speed of any motor
vehicle shall be as follows:
      1.   Business District: In a business district, twenty (20) miles per
hour.
      2.   Residence Or School District: In a residence or school district,
twenty five (25) miles per hour.
      3.   Suburban District: In a suburban district, forty five (45) miles per
hour.
      4.   Alleys: In all alleys, no matter where located within the city,
fifteen (15) miles per hour.
      5.   City Parks: In city parks, no matter where located within the city,
fifteen (15) miles per hour.
      6.   Interstate 74: On Interstate 74, from the Iowa side point where the
suspension portion of the bridge over the Mississippi River begins, through the
corporate limits of the city, fifty five (55) miles per hour.
      7.   Interstate 80: On Interstate 80 through the corporate limits of the
city, sixty five (65) miles per hour. (2008 Code § 17-285)
      8.   Maximum Speeds On Specific Streets: The following maximum speed
limits are hereby established for the following streets:
            Barcelona Street, from 53rd Avenue to Field Sike Drive, 25 miles
per hour.
            Barr Street, from Mount Joy Avenue to Indiana Avenue, 35 miles per
hour.
            Belmont Road, from Devils Glen Road to Middle Road, 35 miles per
hour.
            Belmont Road, from Middle Road to the west city limits of
Riverdale, 35 miles per hour.
            Belmont Road, from the west city limits of Riverdale to a point 1/
2 mile west of Valley Drive (West Court), 25 miles per hour.
            Belmont Road, from Valley Drive to a point 1/2 mile west of Valley
Drive, 35 miles per hour.
            Criswell Street from Forest Grove Drive to Valley Drive, 40 miles
per hour.
            Crow Creek Road, from Middle Road to Valley Drive, 35 miles per
hour, except as modified in subsection B9 of this section.
            Crow Creek Road, from 18th Street to Devils Glen Road, 30 miles per
hour.
            Devils Glen Road, from State Street to 500 feet north of 53rd
Avenue, 35 miles per hour, except as modified in subsection B9 of this section.
            Devils Glen Road, from 500 feet north of 53rd Avenue to 1,320 feet
north of Forest Grove Drive, 35 miles per hour.
            Elm Street, from 35th Street to 42nd Street, 25 miles per hour.
            Field Sike Drive, from Devils Glen Road to Barcelona Street, 25
miles per hour.
            Forest Grove Drive, from Devils Glen Road to the east city limits,
40 miles per hour.
            Forest Grove Drive, from the west city limits to 1,000 feet east of
Eagle Ridge Road, 35 miles per hour.
            Gilbert Street, from 16th Street to 12th Street, 35 miles per hour.
            Grant Street, from South Grant Street (on S curve) to 13th Street,
35 miles per hour.
            Grant Street, from 13th Street to 26th Street, 30 miles per hour.
            South Grant Street (on S curve), from 6th Street to Grant Street,
35 miles per hour.
            Greenbrier Drive, from Spruce Hills Drive to Tanglefoot Lane, 30
miles per hour.
            Heatherstone Road, from Crow Creek Road to Taylor Avenue, 15 miles
per hour for vehicles with a gross weight on any 1 axle of a vehicle or of a
combination of axles exceeding 6,000 pounds.
            Hopewell Avenue, from a point 110 feet west of Whispering Hills
Drive to Middle Road, 35 miles per hour.
            Hopewell Avenue, from Devils Glen Road to a point 110 feet west of
Whispering Hills Drive, 30 miles per hour.
            Indiana Avenue, from Barr Street to Middle Road, 40 miles per hour.
            Indiana Avenue, from Middle Road easterly 800 feet, 45 miles per
hour.
            Kimberly Road, from Mississippi Boulevard to a point 650 feet north
of Duck Creek, 35 miles per hour.
            Lincoln Road, from Kimberly Road to 14th Street, 35 miles per hour.
            Maplecrest Road, from 18th Street to 29th Street, 30 miles per
hour.
            Middle Road, from Belmont Road to 710 feet south of centerline of
53rd Avenue, 35 miles per hour.
            Middle Road, from Hopewell Avenue to Indiana Avenue, 40 miles per
hour.
            Middle Road, from Kimberly Road to 700 feet west of Oakbrook Drive,
30 miles per hour.
            Middle Road, from 700 feet west of Oakbrook Drive to Belmont Road,
35 miles per hour.
            Middle Road, from 710 feet south of centerline of 53rd Avenue to
945 feet north of centerline of 53rd Avenue, 20 miles per hour.
            Middle Road, from 945 feet north of centerline of 53rd Avenue to
Hopewell Avenue, 35 miles per hour.
            Moencks Road, from Valley Drive to Crow Creek Road, 30 miles per
hour.
            Mount Joy Avenue, from west city limits to Barr Street, 35 miles
per hour.
            River Drive, from the west city limits to 6th Street, 45 miles per
hour.
            River Drive, from 6th Street to 8th Street, 35 miles per hour.
            Spruce Hills Drive, from the west city limits to Utica Ridge Road,
40 miles per hour.
            Spruce Hills Drive, from Utica Ridge Road to Middle Road, 30 miles
per hour.
            State Street, from the city limits of the city bordering the east
city limits of the city of Riverdale, Iowa, to the eastern corporate city
limits of Bettendorf, 55 miles per hour.
            State Street, from 8th Street to 14th Street, 35 miles per hour.
            State Street, from 14th Street to 26th Street, 30 miles per hour.
            State Street, from 26th Street to 29th Street, 35 miles per hour.
            State Street, from 29th Street to the city limits bordering the
west city limits of the city of Riverdale, Iowa, 40 miles per hour.
            Tanglefoot Lane, from Utica Ridge Road to Devils Glen Road, 35
miles per hour.
            Tanglewood Road, from Devils Glen Road to Middle Road, 25 miles per
hour.
            Utica Ridge Road, from Spruce Hills Drive to Crow Creek Road, 35
miles per hour.
            Valley Drive, from the point of its intersection with the city of
Riverdale to the eastern corporate city limits of Bettendorf, 35 miles per
hour.
            6th Street, from State Street to Broadlawn Avenue, 30 miles per
hour.
            13th Street, from Mississippi Boulevard to State Street, 35 miles
per hour.
            14th Street, from Central Avenue to Middle Road, 30 miles per hour.
            14th Street, from State Street to Mississippi Boulevard, 25 miles
per hour.
            14th Street, from 200 feet south of the center of Central Avenue to
25 feet north of the center of Central Avenue, 15 miles per hour.
            18th Street, from Crow Creek Road to 53rd Avenue, 35 miles per
hour.
            18th Street, from State Street to Tanglefoot Lane, 30 miles per
hour, except as modified in subsection B9 of this section.
            18th Street, from Tanglefoot Lane to Crow Creek Road, 30 miles per
hour.
            18th Street, from 53rd Avenue to Barcelona Street, 25 miles per
hour.
            23rd Street, from Central Avenue to 300 feet north of Lincoln Road,
30 miles per hour.
            23rd Street, from 300 feet north of Lincoln Road to Middle Road, 35
miles per hour.
            29th Street, from Middle Road to Tanglefoot Lane, 30 miles per
hour.
            35th Street, from State Street south to Elm Street, 25 miles per
hour.
            42nd Street, from State Street south to Elm Street, 25 miles per
hour.
            53rd Avenue, from west city limits to 400 feet west of Middle Road,
45 miles per hour.
            53rd Avenue, from 400 feet east of Middle Road to Judge Road, 35
miles per hour.
            53rd Avenue, from 400 feet west of Middle Road to 400 feet east of
Middle Road, 20 miles per hour.
            76th Avenue, from the west city limits to Devils Glen Road, 40
miles per hour.
(2008 Code § 17-285; amd. Ord. 07-13, 3-19-2013; Ord. 23-16, 11-15-2016; Ord.
20-24, 9-17-2024)
      9.   Maximum Speeds At Certain Times: Notwithstanding the above
provisions, the following maximum speed limits are hereby established for the
following streets at the times stated:
            7:00 A.M. - 5:00 P.M. WHEN SCHOOL IS IN SESSION:
            18th Street, from Avalon Drive to Sutton Place, 25 miles per hour.
At all other times, the speed limit shall be as established in subsection B8 of
this section.
            18th Street, from Southview, north, to Tanglefoot Lane, 25 miles
per hour. At all other times, the speed limit shall be as established in
subsection B8 of this section.
            18th Street from 225 feet north of Elmwood Drive to 275 feet north
of Lincoln Avenue, 25 miles per hour. At all other times, the speed limit shall
be as established in subsection B8 of this section.
            Crow Creek Road from Shadowbrook Drive to 800 feet east of
Shadowbrook Drive, 25 miles per hour. At all other times, the speed limit shall
be as established in subsection B8 of this section.
            Devils Glen Road from Raleigh Avenue to 400 feet north of Lundy
Lane, 25 miles per hour. At all other times, the speed limit shall be as
established in subsection B8 of this section.
            Forest Grove Drive from 2,315 feet east of Middle Road to 200 feet
east of Spring Creek Drive, 25 miles per hour. At all other times, the speed
limit shall be as established in subsection B8 of this section.
            Hopewell Avenue from 230 feet west of the west school entrance of
Hopewell Elementary School to 50 feet west of Emery Court, 25 miles per hour.
At all other times, the speed limit shall be as established in subsection B8 of
this section.
            Maplecrest Rd from 170 feet east of 18th Street to 420 feet east of
Victoria St, 25 miles per hour. At all other times, the speed limit shall be as
established in subsection B8 of this section.
            Tanglefoot Lane from Wakonda Drive to 170 feet east of Tanglefoot
Terrace, 25 miles per hour. At all other times, the speed limit shall be as
established in subsection B8 of this section. (2008 Code § 17-285; amd. Ord.
09-20, 4-21-2020; Ord. 11-20, 8-18-2020; Ord. 15-21, 7-20-2021; Ord. 04-25, 2-
18-2025)
6-1-286 - 6-1-287: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-288: CONTROL OF VEHICLE; REDUCED SPEED:
A person operating a motor vehicle shall have the vehicle under control at all
times and shall reduce the speed to a reasonable and proper rate:
   A.   When approaching and passing a person walking in the traveled portion
of the public highway.
   B.   When approaching and passing an animal which is being led, ridden, or
driven upon a public highway.
   C.   When approaching and traversing a crossing or intersection of public
highways, or a bridge, sharp turn, curve, or steep descent, in a public
highway.
   D.   When approaching and passing an emergency warning device displayed in
accordance with rules adopted under Iowa Code section 321.449, or an emergency
vehicle displaying a revolving or flashing light.
   E.   When approaching and passing a slow moving vehicle displaying a
reflective device as provided by Iowa Code section 321.383.
   F.   When approaching and passing through a signposted construction or
maintenance zone upon the public highway. (2008 Code § 17-288)
6-1-289 - 6-1-293: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-294: MINIMUM SPEED REGULATION:
No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law. Peace officers are
hereby authorized to enforce this provision by directions to drivers, and in
the event of apparent wilful disobedience to this provision and refusal to
comply with direction of an officer in accordance herewith the continued slow
operation by a driver shall be unlawful. (2008 Code § 17-294)
6-1-295 - 6-1-296: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-297: DRIVING ON RIGHT HAND SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Exceptions To Driving On Right: A vehicle shall be driven upon the
right half of the roadway upon all roadways of sufficient width, except as
follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement.
      2.   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the roadway, provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the roadway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
      3.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon.
      4.   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic.
   B.   Slow Moving Vehicles: Any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right hand lane then available for traffic upon all
roadways, or as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the
roadway, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction or when preparing for a left turn at an intersection, an alley,
private road or driveway.
   C.   Roadways Having Four Or More Lanes:
      1.   A vehicle shall not be driven upon any roadway having four (4) or
more lanes for moving traffic and providing for two-way movement of traffic, to
the left of the centerline of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the
center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use such
lanes, or except as permitted under subsection A of this section.
      2.   This subsection C shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing
of the centerline in making a left turn into or from an alley, private road, or
driveway. (2008 Code § 17-297)
6-1-298: MEETING AND TURNING TO RIGHT:
Except as otherwise provided in section
6-1-297 of this chapter, vehicles or persons on horseback meeting each other on
any roadway shall yield one-half (1/2) of the roadway by turning to the right.
(2008 Code § 17-298; amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-299: OVERTAKING A VEHICLE:
The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions, and
special rules hereinafter stated:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
   B.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle and shall not increase the speed of the overtaken vehicle
until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle. (2008 Code § 17-299)
6-1-300 - 6-1-301: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-302: OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of another
vehicle which is making or about to make a left turn.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and, allowing sufficient
clearance, pass another vehicle proceeding in the same direction either upon
the left or upon the right on a roadway with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for four (4) or more lines of moving traffic when such
movement can be made in safety. No person shall drive off the pavement or upon
the shoulder of the roadway in overtaking or passing on the right. (2008 Code §
17-302)
6-1-303: LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT:
A vehicle shall not be driven to the left side of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless
the left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a
sufficient distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely
made without interfering with the safe operation of a vehicle approaching from
the opposite direction or a vehicle overtaken. The overtaking vehicle shall
return to the right hand side of the roadway before coming within three hundred
feet (300') of a vehicle approaching from the opposite direction when traveling
on a roadway having a legal speed limit in excess of thirty (30) miles per
hour, and the overtaking vehicle shall return to the right hand side of the
roadway before coming within one hundred feet (100') of a vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction when traveling on a roadway having a legal speed
limit of thirty (30) miles per hour or less. (2008 Code § 17-303)
6-1-304: PROHIBITED PASSING:
No vehicle shall, in overtaking and passing another vehicle or at any other
time, be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following conditions:
   A.   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the highway
where the driver's view along the highway is obstructed for a distance of
approximately seven hundred feet (700').
   B.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of any narrow bridge,
viaduct, or tunnel, when so signposted, or when approaching within one hundred
feet (100') of or traversing any intersection or railroad grade crossing.
   C.   Where official signs are in place directing that traffic keep to the
right or a distinctive centerline or off centerline is marked, which
distinctive line also so directs traffic as declared in the sign manual adopted
by the state department of transportation. (2008 Code § 17-304)
6-1-305: ONE-WAY ROADWAYS:
The following roadways are designated and signposted for one- way traffic and
vehicles shall be driven only in the direction designated:
Calvert Drive from 14th Street to the southbound lane of Kimberly Road is
designated as a one-way street on which traffic shall proceed only in a
southwesterly direction.
Grant Street from 6th Street to 26th Street is designated as a one-way street
on which traffic shall proceed only in a westerly direction.
Kimberly Road, one-way southerly on the westerly two (2) lanes of Kimberly Road
from the intersection of Mississippi Boulevard and 13th Street to Middle Road,
one-way northerly on the easterly two (2) lanes of Kimberly Road from the
intersection of Mississippi Boulevard and 14th Street to Middle Road.
River Drive from 6th Street to 8th Street is designated as a one-way street on
which traffic shall proceed only in an easterly direction.
South Grant Street from 6th Street to Grant Street is designated as a one-way
street on which traffic shall proceed only in a southwesterly direction.
Stafford Boulevard from Middle Road to Maplecrest Road is designated as a one-
way street on which traffic shall proceed only in a northerly direction.
State Street from 8th Street to 26th Street is designated as a one-way street
on which traffic shall proceed only in an easterly direction.
The alley between Central and Bellevue Streets and bounded on its terminus by
26th Street and Maiden Lane is designated as a one-way alley on which traffic
shall proceed only in a westerly direction.
Willow Drive from Maplecrest Road to four hundred forty feet (440') east of
Tech Drive is designated as a one-way street on which traffic shall proceed
only in a southerly direction.
13th Street from Mississippi Boulevard to State Street is designated as a one-
way street on which traffic shall proceed only in a southerly direction.
14th Street from State Street to three hundred seventy feet (370') north of
Mississippi Boulevard is designated as a one-way street on which traffic shall
proceed only in a northerly direction.
21st Street from State Street to Grant Street is designated as a one-way street
on which traffic shall proceed only in a northerly direction.
(2008 Code § 17-305)
6-1-306: ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC:
   A.   Rules: Whenever any roadway has been divided into three (3) or more
clearly marked lanes for traffic, the following rules in addition to all others
consistent herewith shall apply:
      1.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
      2.   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes, a vehicle
shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is
clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn or
where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving
in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of
such allocation.
      3.   Official signs may be erected directing slow moving traffic to use a
designated lane or allocating specified lanes to traffic moving in the same
direction and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
      4.   Vehicles moving in a lane designated for slow moving traffic shall
yield the right-of-way to vehicles moving in the same direction in a lane not
so designated when such lanes merge to form a single lane.
      5.   A portion of a highway provided with a lane for slow moving vehicles
does not become a roadway marked for three (3) lanes of traffic. (Ord. 04-17,
4-18-2017)
6-1-307: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway. (2008 Code §
17-307)
6-1-308 - 6-1-310: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-311: TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS AND DRIVING RULES FOR SPECIFIC INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Rules: The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection, or
an intersection into an alley, private road or driveway shall do as follows:
      1.   Both the approach for a right turn and the right turn shall be made
as close as practical to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      2.   The approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a two-way
street shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway street
nearest the centerline thereof and, after entering the intersection, the left
turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection to the right of the
centerline of the roadway being entered.
      3.   The approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way
street shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest
the centerline thereof and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to depart from the intersection as close as practical to
the left hand curb or edge of the roadway being entered.
      4.   The approach for a left turn from a one-way street into a two-way
street shall be made as close as practical to the left hand curb or edge of the
roadway and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as
to depart from the intersection to the right of the centerline of the roadway
being entered.
      5.   The approach for a left turn from a one-way through street into a
one-way street shall be made as close as practical to the left hand curb or
edge of the roadway and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall
be made so as to depart from the intersection as close as practical to the left
hand curb or edge of the roadway being entered.
      6.   Both the approach for a left turn and the left turn from a two-way
street into an alley, driveway or private road shall be made in that portion of
the right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof.
      7.   Both the approach for a left turn and the left turn from a one-way
street into an alley, driveway or private road shall be made as close as
practical to the left hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   B.   Obey Lane Markings At Specific Intersections: The driver of a vehicle
approaching or crossing the following intersections shall obey the lane
markings as designated herein:
Barcelona Street and 53rd Avenue:
Approaching Barcelona Street from the west on 53rd Avenue, the right lane shall
proceed straight ahead only; the center lane shall proceed straight ahead only;
the left lane shall turn left only.
Belmont Road and Devils Glen Road:
Approaching Belmont Road and Maple Glen Drive from the north on Devils Glen
Road, the right lane shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the
left lane shall either proceed straight ahead or turn left.
Approaching Belmont Road and Maple Glen Drive from the south on Devils Glen
Road, the right lane shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the
left lane shall either proceed straight ahead or turn left.
Approaching Devils Glen Road from the east on Belmont Road, the right lane
shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the left lane shall turn
left only.
Approaching Devils Glen Road from the west on Maple Glen Drive, the right lane
shall proceed straight ahead, turn left or turn right.
Belmont Road and Middle Road:
Approaching Belmont Road from the northeast on Middle Road, the right lane
shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall
proceed straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching Belmont Road from the southwest on Middle Road, the right lane
shall turn right only; the center lane shall proceed straight ahead only; the
left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching Middle Road from the northwest on Belmont Road, the right lane
shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the left lane shall turn
left only.
Approaching Middle Road from the southeast on Belmont Road, the right lane
shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the two (2) left lanes shall
turn left only.
Belmont Road and Ridge Pointe Road:
Approaching Ridge Pointe Road from the northwest on Belmont Road, the right
lane shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall
proceed straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Crow Creek Park and Devils Glen Road:
Approaching Crow Creek Park south entrance from the north on Devils Glen Road,
the right lane shall proceed straight ahead only; and the left lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn left.
Approaching Crow Creek Park south entrance from the south on Devils Glen Road,
the right lane shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right and the left
lane shall proceed straight ahead.
Approaching Devils Glen Road from the east on Crow Creek Park south entrance,
the right lane shall turn right or turn left.
Crow Creek Road and Middle Road:
Approaching Crow Creek Road from the north on Middle Road, the right lane shall
proceed straight ahead or turn right; the left lane shall turn left.
Approaching Crow Creek Road from the south on Middle Road, the right lane shall
turn right only; the left lane shall proceed straight ahead or turn left.
Approaching Middle Road from the east on Crow Creek Road, the right lane shall
proceed straight ahead or turn right; the left lane shall turn left only.
Crow Creek Road and Moencks Road:
Approaching Moencks Road from the east on Crow Creek Road, the right lane shall
proceed straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching Moencks Road from the west on Crow Creek Road, the right lane shall
turn right only; the left lane shall proceed straight ahead only.
Crow Creek Road and Valley Drive:
Approaching Crow Creek Road from the northeast on Valley Drive, the right lane
shall turn right only; the left lane shall proceed straight ahead only.
Approaching Valley Drive from the west on Crow Creek Road, the right lane shall
turn right only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Devils Glen Road and Holiday Court:
Approaching Holiday Court from the north on Devils Glen Road, the right lane
shall turn right only; the center lane and the left lane shall proceed straight
ahead.
Devils Glen Road and Middle Road:
Approaching Devils Glen Road from the east on Middle Road, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed
straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching Devils Glen Road from the west on Middle Road, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed
straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching Middle Road from the north on Devils Glen Road, the right lane
shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall
proceed straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching Middle Road from the south on Devils Glen Road, the right lane
shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall
proceed straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Devils Glen Road and State Street:
Approaching Devils Glen Road from the east on State Street, the right lane
shall turn right only; the right center lane and left center lane shall proceed
straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching Devils Glen Road from the west on State Street, the right lane
shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall
proceed straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching State Street from the north on Devils Glen Road, the right lane
shall proceed straight ahead or turn right; the left lane shall turn left only.
Devils Glen Road and Tanglefoot Lane:
Approaching Devils Glen Road from the east on Tanglefoot Lane, the right lane
shall turn right only; the center lane shall proceed straight ahead only; and
the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching Devils Glen Road from the west on Tanglefoot Lane, the right lane
shall turn right only; the center lane shall proceed straight ahead only; and
the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching Tanglefoot Lane from the north on Devils Glen Road, the right lane
shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall
proceed straight ahead only; and the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching Tanglefoot Lane from the south on Devils Glen Road, the right lane
shall proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed
straight ahead only; and the left lane shall turn left only.
Devils Glen Road and 53rd Avenue:
Approaching Devils Glen Road from the east on 53rd Avenue, the right lane shall
proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed straight
ahead only; and the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching Devils Glen Road from the west on 53rd Avenue, the right lane shall
proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed straight
ahead only; and the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching 53rd Avenue from the north on Devils Glen Road, the right lane
shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall
proceed straight ahead only; and the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching 53rd Avenue from the south on Devils Glen Road, the right lane
shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; and the left lane shall turn
left only.
George Thuenen Drive at State Street:
Approaching George Thuenen Drive from the west on State Street, the right lane
shall turn right only; the left lane shall either proceed straight ahead or
turn left; the two (2) center lanes shall proceed straight ahead only.
Approaching State Street from the south on George Thuenen Drive, the right lane
shall turn right only; the left lane shall proceed straight ahead only.
Happy Joe Drive at Middle Road:
Approaching Middle Road from the northwest on Happy Joe Drive, the right lane
shall turn right only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Hugo Road and 53rd Avenue:
Approaching Hugo Road from east on 53rd Avenue, the right lane shall proceed
straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed straight ahead.
Approaching Hugo Road from the west on 53rd Avenue, the right lane shall
proceed straight ahead; the center lane shall turn left only.
Approaching 53rd Avenue from the north on Hugo Road, the right lane shall
either turn right or turn left.
Kimberly Road and Lincoln Road:
Approaching Kimberly Road from the east on Lincoln Road, the right lane shall
turn right only; the left lane shall either proceed straight ahead or turn
left.
Approaching Lincoln Road from the north on Kimberly Road, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed
straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching Lincoln Road from the south on Kimberly Road, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed
straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Kimberly Road and Middle Road:
Approaching Kimberly Road from east on Middle Road, the right lane shall either
proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed straight
ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching Middle Road from the south on Kimberly Road, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed
straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Kimberly Road and private entrance one thousand two hundred sixty feet south of
Lincoln Road (north entrance to Slavens Manor):
Approaching the private entrance one thousand two hundred sixty feet (1,260')
south of Lincoln Road from the south on Kimberly Road, the right lane and the
center lane shall proceed straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left
only.
Kimberly Road and private entrance two thousand one hundred feet south of
Lincoln Road (south entrance to Slavens Manor):
Approaching the private entrance two thousand one hundred feet (2,100') south
of Lincoln Road from the south on Kimberly Road, the right lane and the center
lane shall proceed straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Lincoln Road and Kimberly Ridge Road:
Approaching Kimberly Ridge Road from the west on Lincoln Road, the right lane
shall turn right only; the left lane shall either proceed straight ahead or
turn left.
Middle Road and AAA Court:
Approaching Middle Road from the north on AAA Court, the right lane shall turn
right only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Middle Road and Oakbrook Drive:
Approaching Middle Road from the north on Oakbrook Drive, the right lane shall
turn right only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Middle Road and Olympia Drive:
Approaching Middle Road from the north on Olympia Drive, the right lane shall
turn right only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Middle Road and private entrance five hundred feet east of Kimberly Road
(Bishop's entrance to Duck Creek Plaza):
Approaching the private entrance five hundred feet (500') east of Kimberly Road
from the east on Middle Road, the right lane shall either proceed straight
ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed straight ahead only; the
left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching the private entrance five hundred feet (500') east of Kimberly Road
from the west on Middle Road, the right lane shall either proceed straight
ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed straight ahead only; the
left lane shall turn left only.
Middle Road and private entrance one thousand one hundred twenty feet east of
Kimberly Road (Holiday Inn/Younker's entrance to Duck Creek Plaza):
Approaching the private entrance one thousand one hundred twenty feet (1,120')
east of Kimberly Road from the east on Middle Road, the right lane shall either
proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed straight
ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching the private entrance one thousand one hundred twenty feet (1,120')
east of Kimberly Road from the west on Middle Road, the right lane shall either
proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed straight
ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Middle Road and Ridge Pointe Road:
Approaching Ridge Pointe Road from the west on Middle Road, the right lane
shall turn right only; the left lane shall proceed straight ahead.
Middle Road and the east intersection with the Interstate Highway 74 exit
ramps:
Approaching Middle Road from the south on the east Interstate Highway 74 exit
ramp, the left lane shall turn left only; the left center lane shall either
turn left or proceed straight ahead; the right lane shall turn right only.
Approaching the east Interstate Highway 74 exit ramp intersection from the
east, the right lane shall turn right only; the center lane and the left lane
shall proceed straight ahead only.
Approaching the east Interstate Highway 74 exit ramp intersection from the
west, the right lane and the center lane shall proceed straight ahead only; the
left lane shall turn left only.
Middle Road and the west intersection with the Interstate Highway 74 exit
ramps:
Approaching the west Interstate Highway 74 exit ramp intersection from the east
on Middle Road, the right lane and the center lane shall proceed straight ahead
only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching the west Interstate Highway 74 exit ramp intersection from the west
on Middle Road, the left lane and the center lane shall proceed straight ahead
only; the right lane shall turn right only.
Middle Road and 14th Street:
Approaching Middle Road from the south on 14th Street, the right lane shall
turn right only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Spruce Hills Drive and Learning Campus Drive:
Approaching Learning Campus Drive from the west on Spruce Hills Drive, the
right lane and the center lane shall proceed straight ahead only; the left lane
shall turn left only.
Approaching Spruce Hills Drive from the north on Learning Campus Drive, the
right lane shall turn right only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Spruce Hills Drive and Middle Road:
Approaching Middle Road from the north on Spruce Hills Drive, the left lane
shall turn left only; the center lane shall proceed straight ahead only; the
right lane shall turn right only.
Approaching Middle Road from the south on 23rd Street, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed
straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching Spruce Hills Drive and 23rd Street from the east on Middle Road,
the right lane shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center
lane shall proceed straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching Spruce Hills Drive and 23rd Street from the west on Middle Road,
the right lane shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center
lane shall proceed straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Spruce Hills Drive and the east intersection with the Interstate Highway 74
exit ramps:
Approaching the east Interstate Highway 74 exit ramp intersection from the
south on the Interstate Highway 74 exit ramps, the right lane shall turn right
only; the center lane shall either proceed straight ahead or turn left; the
left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching the east Interstate Highway 74 exit ramp intersection from the west
on Spruce Hills Drive, the right and center lanes shall proceed straight ahead
only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Spruce Hills Drive and Utica Ridge Road:
Approaching Spruce Hills Drive from the north on Utica Ridge Road, the left
lane shall either proceed straight ahead or turn left; the right lane shall
turn right only.
Approaching Spruce Hills Drive from the south on Utica Ridge Road, the right
lane shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the left lane shall
turn left only.
Approaching Utica Ridge Road from the east on Spruce Hills Drive, the right
lane shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall
proceed straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching Utica Ridge Road from the west on Spruce Hills Drive, the right
lane shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the right center lane
shall proceed straight ahead only; the left center lane and the left lane shall
turn left only.
Utica Ridge Road and Tanglefoot Lane:
Approaching Tanglefoot Lane from the north on Utica Ridge Road, the right lane
shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the left lane shall turn
left only.
Approaching Tanglefoot Lane from the south on Utica Ridge Road, the left lane
shall turn left only; the center lane shall proceed straight ahead only; the
right lane shall turn right only.
Approaching Utica Ridge Road from the east on Tanglefoot Lane, the right lane
shall turn right only; the left lane shall either proceed straight ahead or
turn left.
6th Street and River Drive:
Approaching River Drive from the north on 6th Street, the left lane shall turn
left only; the right lane shall turn right only.
13th Street and State Street:
Approaching State Street from the north on 13th Street, the left lane shall
turn left only and, after entering in the intersection, shall depart from the
intersection in the left lane or the left center lane of State Street.
Approaching State Street from the north on 13th Street, the center lane shall
turn left only and, after entering in the intersection, shall depart from the
intersection in the center or right center lane of State Street.
Approaching State Street from the north on 13th Street, the right lane shall
turn left only and, after entering the intersection, shall depart from the
intersection in the right hand lane of State Street.
14th Street and Grant Street:
Approaching Grant Street from the south on 14th Street, the two (2) left lanes
shall turn left only; the two (2) right lanes shall proceed straight ahead
only.
Approaching 14th Street from the east on Grant Street, the right lane shall
turn right only; the right center, left center and left lanes shall proceed
straight ahead only.
14th Street and State Street:
Approaching State Street from the south on 14th Street (I-74 exit ramp), the
right lane shall turn right only; the left lane and the center lane shall
proceed straight ahead only.
Approaching 14th Street from the west on State Street: the northernmost lane
shall turn left only, and shall commit to one of the three (3) westernmost
lanes of 14th Street; the second northernmost lane shall turn left only, and
shall commit to the easternmost lane of 14th Street; the remaining three (3)
lanes of State Street shall proceed straight only.
   18th Street and Central Avenue:
Approaching Central Avenue from the north on 18th Street, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the left lane shall turn left
only.
Approaching Central Avenue from the south on 18th Street, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the left lane shall turn left
only.
Approaching 18th Street from the east on Central Avenue, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the left lane shall turn left
only.
Approaching 18th Street from the west on Central Avenue, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the left lane shall turn left
only.
18th Street and Grant Street:
Approaching Grant Street from the north on 18th Street, the right lane shall
turn right only; the left lane shall proceed straight ahead only.
Approaching Grant Street from the south on 18th Street, the right lane shall
proceed straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching 18th Street from the east on Grant Street, the right lane shall
turn right only; the left lane shall either proceed straight ahead or turn
left; the two (2) center lanes shall proceed straight ahead only.
18th Street and Learning Campus Drive:
Approaching 18th Street from the west on Learning Campus Drive, the right lane
shall proceed straight ahead or turn right; the left lane shall turn left only.
18th Street and Lincoln Road:
Approaching 18th Street from the east on Lincoln Road, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the left lane shall turn left
only.
Approaching 18th Street from the west on Lincoln Road, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the left lane shall turn left
only.
18th Street and Middle Road:
Approaching Middle Road from the north on 18th Street, the right lane shall
turn right only; the left lane shall turn left only; the center lane shall
proceed straight ahead only.
Approaching Middle Road from the south on 18th Street, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the left lane shall turn left
only.
Approaching 18th Street from the east on Middle Road, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed
straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching 18th Street from the west on Middle Road, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed
straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
18th Street and Spruce Hills Drive:
Approaching Spruce Hills Drive from the north on 18th Street, the right lane
shall proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed
straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching Spruce Hills Drive from the south on 18th Street, the right lane
shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall
proceed straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching 18th Street from the east on Spruce Hills Drive, the right lane
shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall
proceed straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching 18th Street from the west on Spruce Hills Drive, the right lane
shall either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall
proceed straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
18th Street and Tanglefoot Lane:
Approaching 18th Street from the east on Tanglefoot Lane, the right lane shall
turn right only; the center lane shall proceed straight ahead only; the left
lane shall turn left only.
Approaching 18th Street from the west on Tanglefoot Lane, the right lane shall
turn right only; the center lane shall proceed straight ahead only; the left
lane shall turn left only.
23rd Street and Grant Street:
Approaching Grant Street from the south on 23rd Street, the right lane shall
proceed straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching 23rd Street from the east on Grant Street, the right lane shall
turn right only; the left lane shall either proceed straight ahead or turn
left; the two (2) center lanes shall proceed straight ahead only.
23rd Street and State Street:
Approaching State Street from the south on 23rd Street, the right lane shall
turn right only; the left lane shall proceed straight ahead only.
26th Street and State Street:
Approaching 26th Street from the east on State Street, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed
straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching 26th Street from the west on State Street, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed
straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
29th Street and Middle Road:
Approaching 29th Street from the east on Middle Road, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed
straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching 29th Street from the west on Middle Road, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed
straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
53rd Avenue and 18th Street:
Approaching 18th Street from the east on 53rd Avenue, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed
straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching 18th Street from the west on 53rd Avenue, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the center lane shall proceed
straight ahead only; the left lane shall turn left only.
Approaching 53rd Avenue from the north on 18th Street, the right lane shall
either proceed straight ahead or turn right; the left lane shall either proceed
straight ahead or turn left.
Approaching 53rd Avenue from the south on 18th Street, the right lane shall
turn right only, the center lane shall proceed straight ahead only; the left
lane shall turn left only.
(2008 Code § 17-311)
6-1-312: TURNING ON CURVE OR CREST OF GRADE; U-TURNS:
   A.   Curve Or Crest Of Grade: No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any curve, or upon the approach to, or near the
crest of, a grade or hill, where such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of
any other vehicle approaching from either direction within five hundred feet
(500').
   B.   U-Turns: No person shall turn a vehicle around at any other place in a
street if the turning operation obstructs traffic. (2008 Code § 17-312)
6-1-313: STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. (2008 Code § 17-
313)
6-1-314: WHEN SIGNAL REQUIRED:
No person shall turn a vehicle from a direct course upon a highway unless and
until such movement can be made with reasonable safety and then only after
giving a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn if any pedestrian may be
affected by such movement, or after giving an appropriate signal in the manner
hereinafter provided in the event any other vehicle may be affected by such
movement. (2008 Code § 17-314)
6-1-315: SIGNAL CONTINUOUS:
A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given continuously during
not less than the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by the vehicle before
turning when the speed limit is forty five (45) miles per hour or less and a
continuous signal during not less than the last three hundred feet (300') when
the speed limit is in excess of forty five (45) miles per hour. (2008 Code §
17-315)
6-1-316: STOPPING:
No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without first
giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the driver of any
vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give such signal.
(2008 Code § 17-316)
6-1-317: SIGNALS BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE:
   A.   Manner Of Signaling: The signals required under the provisions of this
chapter may be given either by means of the hand and arm as provided in section
6-1-318 of this chapter, or by a mechanical or electrical directional signal
device or light and conforming to the provisions of Iowa Code chapter 321.
   B.   Directional Signal Devices: Directional signal devices shall be
designed with a white, yellow or amber lamp or lamps to be displayed on the
front of vehicles and with a lamp or lamps of red, yellow or amber to be
displayed on the rear of vehicles. Such devices shall be capable of clearly
indicating any intention to turn either to the right or to the left and shall
be visible and understandable during both daylight and darkness from a distance
of at least one hundred feet (100') from the front and rear of a vehicle
equipped therewith.
   C.   Signal Devices Required On Vehicles; Exception:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale or operate
on the highways any vehicle subject to registration under the provisions of
this chapter which has never been registered in this or any other state prior
to January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with a directional signal
device of a type in compliance with the provisions of subsection B of this
section.
      2.   Motorcycles, motorized bicycles and semitrailers and trailers less
than forty inches (40") in width are exempt from the provisions of this
section.
   D.   Signals In Proper Working Condition: When a vehicle is equipped with a
directional signal device, such device shall at all times be maintained in good
working condition. No directional signal device shall project a glaring or
dazzling light. All directional signal devices shall be self- illuminated when
in use while other lamps on the vehicle are lighted.
   E.   Disabled Vehicles; Display Signals: Whenever any vehicle or combination
of vehicles is disabled or for other reason may present a vehicular traffic
hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, overtaking or passing, the
operator then may display on the vehicle or combination of vehicles four (4)
directional signals of a type complying with the provisions of this section
relating to directional signal devices in simultaneous operation. (2008 Code §
17-317)
6-1-318: METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS:
All signals herein required which may be given by hand and arm shall when so
given be given from the left side of the vehicle, and the following manner and
interpretation thereof is suggested:
   A.   Left turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally.
   B.   Right turn: Hand and arm extended upward.
   C.   Stop or decrease of speed: Hand and arm extended downward. (2008 Code §
17-318)
6-1-319: ENTERING INTERSECTIONS FROM DIFFERENT HIGHWAYS:
   A.   When two (2) vehicles enter an intersection from different highways or
public streets at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the
left shall yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right.
   B.   The foregoing rule is modified at through highways and otherwise as
hereinafter stated in this chapter. (2008 Code § 17-319)
6-1-320: LEFT TURNS; YIELDING:
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an intersection or
into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right of way to all
vehicles approaching from the opposite direction which are within the
intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard, then
said driver, having so yielded and having given a signal when and as required
by this chapter, may make such left turn. (2008 Code § 17-320)
6-1-321: ENTERING THROUGH HIGHWAYS:
The driver of a vehicle shall stop or yield as required by this chapter at the
entrance to a through highway and shall yield the right of way to other
vehicles which have entered the intersection from said through highway or which
are approaching so closely on said through highway as to constitute a hazard,
but said driver having so yielded may proceed cautiously and with due care
enter said through highway. (2008 Code § 17-321)
6-1-322: VEHICLES ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTION:
   A.   Stop Streets:
      1.   Stop Required: The driver of a vehicle approaching a stop
intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop at the first opportunity at
either the clearly marked stop line or before entering the crosswalk or before
entering the intersection or at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection. Before proceeding, the driver shall yield the
right of way to any vehicle on the intersecting roadway which has entered the
intersection or which is approaching so closely as to constitute an immediate
hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the intersection.
      2.   Full Stop; Streets Enumerated: The following intersections are
hereby designated as stop intersections by listing the stop street at its
intersection with the through street:
         Adam Court at Tanglewood Road.
         Addyson Drive at 53rd Avenue.
         Adele Lane at Devils Glen Road.
         Alcoa Avenue at Lincoln Road.
         Alcoa Avenue at 14th Street.
         Alvie Lane at Spring Creek Drive.
         Amber Court at Crow Creek Road.
         Amesbury Drive at Crow Creek Road.
         Anderson Court at 18th Street.
         Andrew Court at Parkdale Drive.
         Apple Valley Drive at Aspen Hills Drive.
         Apple Valley Drive at Crow Creek Road.
         Appleton Road at Moencks Road.
         Applewood Drive at Dodd’s Drive.
         Applewood Drive at Lewis Court.
         Archer Drive at Hopewell Avenue.
         Asbury Street at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Ashford Road at Raleigh Avenue.
         Aspen Hills Drive at Apple Valley Drive.
         Aspen Valley Drive at 31st Street.
         Atwood Court at Crow Creek Road.
         Avalon Drive, eastbound, at 18th Street.
         Avalon Drive, northbound, at Spruce Hills Drive.
         Barcelona Street at 53rd Avenue.
         Baron Court at 18th Street.
         Bear Tooth Court at State Street.
         Beaver Meadows Lane at 53rd Avenue.
         Bellevue Avenue at 14th Street.
         Bellevue Avenue at 18th Street.
         Bellevue Avenue at 19th Street.
         Bellevue Avenue at 23rd Street.
         Bellevue Avenue at 26th Street.
         Bellevue Avenue at 30th Street.
         Belmont Place at Belmont Road.
         Belmont Road at Devils Glen Road.
         Belmont Road at Valley Drive.
         Black Lions Circle at Devils Glen Road.
         Brentwood Drive at 53rd Avenue.
         Bristol Drive at Greenbrier Drive.
         Broadlawn Avenue at Eastmere Drive.
         Broadview Drive at Lincoln Road.
         Broadview Drive at 14th Street.
         Brookside Drive at 18th Street.
         Brookview Court at Middle Road.
         Brown Street at 4th Street.
         Brown Street at 6th Street.
         Brown Street at 8th Street.
         Brown Street at 10th Street.
         Brown Street at 12th Street.
         Brown Street at 13th Street.
         Brown Street at 14th Street.
         Brown Street at 16th Street.
         Brown Street at 17th Street.
         Brown Street at 18th Street.
         Brunswick Drive at Queens Drive.
         Buckingham Avenue at 18th Street.
         Bunker Hill Drive at Crow Creek Road.
         Bunker Hill Drive at Terrace Park Drive.
         California Drive at Hopewell Avenue.
         Calvert Drive at Kimberly Road.
         Cambridge Drive at 29th Street.
         Camden Drive at 29th Street.
         Cedarview Court at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Cedarwood Court at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Central Avenue at Devils Glen Road.
         Central Avenue at 14th Street.
         Central Avenue at 18th Street.
         Central Avenue at 23rd Street.
         Central Lane at Central Avenue.
         Century Heights Avenue at Middle Road.
         Charter Oaks Drive at Moencks Road.
         Cherry Hills Road at Welshire Drive.
         Cherrywood Drive at 53rd Avenue.
         Cindy Court at Greenbrier Drive.
         Clemons Road at Moencks Road.
         Clover Hills Drive, northbound, at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Coachman Road at Crow Creek Road.
         Coachman Road at Middle Road.
         Coachman Road at Surrey Drive.
         Cobblestone Drive at Devils Glen Road.
         Cody Street at 18th Street.
         Cody Street at 23rd Street.
         Cody Street at 29th Street.
         Coleman Street at 23rd Street.
         Corral Court at Belmont Road.
         Crestview Drive at Hillside Drive.
         Criswell Street at Forest Grove Drive.
         Criswell Street at Valley Drive.
         Crow Creek Court at Crow Creek Road.
         Crow Creek Road at Amesbury Drive.
         Crow Creek Road at Devils Glen Road.
         Crow Creek Road at Greenbrier Drive.
         Crow Creek Road at Middle Road.
         Crow Creek Road at Utica Ridge Road.
         Crow Creek Road at Valley Drive.
         Crow Creek Road at 18th Street.
         Crow Creek Road, eastbound, at Stone Haven Drive.
         Crow Creek Road, westbound, at Stone Haven Court.
         Crow Lake Drive at Devils Glen Road.
         Custer Terrace at Brown Street.
         Cypress Drive at Hillside Drive.
         Danbury Drive at Greenbrier Drive.
         Davenshire at Greenbrier Drive.
         Davis Street at Crow Creek Road.
         Davis Street at 48th Avenue.
         Dawn Court at 29th Street.
         Deckard Drive at Dolan Drive.
         Deer Springs Drive at Streamside Drive.
         Deerbrook Drive at Deertrail Road.
         Deerbrook Drive at Devils Glen Road.
         Deertrail Road at Deerbrook Drive.
         Deertrail Road at Devils Glen Road.
         Depot Street at 35th Street.
         Devils Glen Court at Devils Glen Road.
         Devils Glen Road at Hopewell Avenue.
         Devils Glen Road, northbound, at Forest Grove Drive.
         Dodd’s Drive at Moencks Road.
         Dolan Drive at Deckard Drive.
         Dolan Drive at Hopewell Avenue.
         Dove Court at Hawk Drive.
         Dundee Lane at Maplecrest Road.
         Dundee Lane at 29th Street.
         Eagle Ridge Road at Field Sike Drive.
         Eagle Ridge Road at Forest Grove Drive.
         Eagle Ridge Road, southbound, at Eagle Ridge Court.
         East Berry Court at 18th Street.
         East Creekside Lane at Field Sike Drive.
         East Crest Avenue at 18th Street.
         East Dale Court at 18th Street.
         East Kingston Circle and North Richmond Circle at Wyndham Drive.
         Eastwood Court at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Echodale Drive at 18th Street.
         Eldorado Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Elmwood Avenue at 18th Street.
         Elmwood Drive at 18th Street.
         Elmwood Lane at Elmwood Avenue.
         Elmwood Lane at Elmwood Drive.
         Elmwood Lane at Middle Road.
         Emery Court at Hopewell Avenue.
         Evergreen Place at Moencks Road.
         Fairlane Drive at 14th Street.
         Fairmeadows Drive at Parkway Drive.
         Fairmeadows Drive, northbound, at Middle Road.
         Falcon Avenue at 18th Street.
         Falcon Avenue at 53rd Avenue.
         Fawn Lane at Devils Glen Road.
         Field Sike Drive at Devils Glen Road.
         Forest Grove Drive at Devils Glen Road.
         Forest Grove Drive at Middle Road.
         Forest Hills Road, east, at Lincoln Road.
         Forest Hills Road, west, at Lincoln Road.
         Friendship Path at Forest Grove Drive.
         Genesis Way at Forest Grove Drive,
         George Thuenen Drive at State Street.
         Glen Eagles Drive at 18th Street.
         Glenbrook Circle North at Devils Glen Road.
         Glenn Street at 23rd Street.
         Glenn Street, eastbound, at 26th Street.
         Glenview Drive at 29th Street.
         Golden Valley Drive at Magnolia Court.
         Golden Valley Drive at Utica Ridge Road.
         Golden Valley Drive at Welshire Drive.
         Golf Course Road at Forest Grove Drive.
         Grandview Drive at Belmont Road.
         Grant Street at 4th Street.
         Grant Street at 6th Street.
         Grayhawk Court at Tanglewood Road.
         Grayhawk Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Greenbrier Drive at Crow Creek Road.
         Greenbrier Drive at Davenshire Drive.
         Greenbrier Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Greenbrier Drive, southbound, at Spruce Hills Drive.
         Greenfield Road at Hollow View Drive.
         Greenfield Road at Pleasant Drive.
         Greenview Court at Saint David Drive.
         Greenview Drive at Saint David Drive.
         Greenway Drive at Hillside Drive.
         Greenwood Avenue at River Drive.
         Halcyon Drive at Devils Glen Road.
         Hall Street at 8th Street.
         Hall Street at 10th Street.
         Hamilton Drive at Crow Creek Road.
         Happy Joe Drive at Middle Road.
         Harmony Drive at Olympia Drive.
         Harmony Drive, northbound, at Spruce Hills Drive.
         Hartford Court at Halcyon Drive.
         Hartford Drive, east, at Halcyon Drive.
         Hawk Drive at 18th Street.
         Hawthorne Drive at Hillside Drive.
         Heather Glen Avenue at Barcelona Street.
         Heather Glen Avenue at 18th Street.
         Heather Lane at Hillside Drive.
         Heather Lane at Parkway Drive.
         Heatherstone Road at Crow Creek Road.
         Heatherstone Road at Whitepost Road.
         Heights Court/Middle Road at Lincoln Road.
         Hickory Lane at Olympia Drive.
         Highland Park Drive at 14th Street.
         Hillcrest Avenue at Olympia Drive.
         Hillcrest Drive, northbound, at Spruce Hills Drive.
         Hillside Court at Hillside Drive.
         Hillside Drive at Olympia Drive.
         Holiday Court at Devils Glen Road.
         Hollow View Drive at Halcyon Drive.
         Holly Drive at Hillside Drive.
         Holmes Street at Mississippi Boulevard.
         Holmes Street at 6th Street.
         Holmes Street at 8th Street.
         Holmes Street at 10th Street.
         Holmes Street at 12th Street.
         Hopewell Avenue at Criswell Street.
         Hopewell Avenue at Middle Road.
         Hugo Road at 53rd Avenue.
         Hunter Road at 18th Street.
         Hyperion Drive, southbound, at Spruce Hills Drive.
         Indiana Avenue at Wells Ferry Road.
         Indiana Avenue, eastbound, at Middle Road.
         International Drive at Forest Grove Drive.
         Interstate Highway 80 exit ramps at Middle Road.
         Isle Parkway at George Thuenen Drive.
         Iverness Drive at Somerset Drive.
         Iverness Drive at South Hampton Drive.
         Jakes Lane at Forest Grove Drive.
         Jenny Lane at Moencks Road.
         Johnathan Avenue at Devils Glen Road.
         Jones Street at 8th Street.
         Jones Street at 10th Street.
         Joshua Street at Hopewell Avenue.
         Judge Road at 53rd Avenue.
         Julie Ann Road at Hopewell Avenue.
         Kerr’s Lane at Moencks Road.
         Kimberly Ridge Road at Lincoln Road.
         Kings Drive at Brunswick Drive.
         Kings Drive at Greenbrier Drive.
         Kingsway Drive at 18th Street.
         Kohles Court at 23rd Street.
         Kynnelworth Avenue at 18th Street.
         Lake View Court at Blackberry Lane in Copper Ridge 1st Addition.
         Lake View Drive at Devils Glen Road.
         Learning Campus Drive at Spruce Hills Drive.
         Learning Campus Drive, westbound, at private entrance four hundred
fifty feet (450') west of 18th Street.
         Lewis Court at Moencks Road.
         Lexington Court at New Lexington Drive.
         Lincoln Court at Lincoln Road.
         Lincoln Place at 14th Street.
         Lincoln Road at 14th Street.
         Lincoln Road at 18th Street.
         Lincoln Road at 23rd Street.
         Lindbergh Drive at Crow Creek Road.
         Linden Lane at Hillside Drive.
         Lindenwood Drive at 18th Street.
         Little Cabin Road at Criswell Street in Old Hunter Woods 1st Addition.
         Lockwood Court at Crow Creek Road.
         Lockwood Drive at 53rd Avenue.
         Lundy Lane at Devils Glen Road.
         Lundy Lane at Wynnewood Road.
         Magnolia Court at Golden Valley Drive.
         Magnolia Drive at Hillside Drive.
         Magnolia Drive at Magnolia Court.
         Magnolia Drive at Spruce Hills Drive.
         Magnolia Drive at Summit Hills Drive.
         Manchester Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Maple Glen Drive, northbound, at Devils Glen Road.
         Maple Glen Drive, southbound, at Devils Glen Road.
         Maplecrest Road at Devils Glen Road.
         Maplecrest Road at Somerset Drive.
         Maplecrest Road at 18th Street.
         Maplecrest Road at 29th Street.
         Maplewood Drive at Cedarview Court.
         Maplewood Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Marynoel Avenue at Devils Glen Road.
         Marynoel Avenue at Field Sike Drive.
         Mayfield Drive at Crow Creek Road.
         Mayfield Drive at 53rd Avenue.
         Meadowlane Drive at 14th Street.
         Meghan Avenue at Criswell Street.
         Meridith Drive at 53rd Avenue.
         Meridith Way at 53rd Avenue.
         Midland Hill Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Millwood Lane at Crow Creek Road.
         Mississippi Boulevard at 6th Street.
         Mississippi Boulevard at 8th Street.
         Mississippi Boulevard at 13th Street.
         Mississippi Boulevard at 14th Street.
         Mississippi Boulevard at 15th Street.
         Mississippi Boulevard at 18th Street.
         Mississippi Boulevard at 21st Street.
         Mississippi Boulevard at 23rd Street.
         Mississippi Boulevard, southbound, at Holmes Street.
         Moencks Road at Crow Creek Road.
         Moencks Road at Valley Drive.
         Montclair Court at Crow Creek Road.
         Muirfield Avenue at Middle Road.
         Nathan Court at Stone Haven Drive.
         Navajo Drive at 18th Street.
         New Lexington Drive at Aspen Hills Drive.
         New Lexington Drive at 18th Street.
         Newport Court at Amesbury Drive.
         Nicholas Court at Stone Haven Drive.
         Norfolk Court at Crow Creek Road.
         Norfolk Drive at Crow Creek Road.
         North Oak Street at 19th Street.
         North Ridge Circle at 53rd Avenue.
         North Street at Moencks Road.
         North Street at 18th Street.
         North Street at 19th Street.
         North Willow Court at Maplecrest Road.
         Norwood Drive at Middle Road.
         Nottingham Lane at Forest Grove Drive.
         Oak Lane at 23rd Street.
         Oak Street at 18th Street.
         Oak Street at 19th Street.
         Oak Street at 23rd Street.
         Oak Street at 26th Street.
         Oak Street at 30th Street.
         Oakbrook Drive, southbound, at Middle Road.
         Oakory Lane at Devils Glen Road.
         Oakwood Drive, northbound, at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Old Ivy Court at Moencks Road.
         Olympia Drive at Middle Road.
         Olympia Drive, northbound, at Spruce Hills Drive.
         Ontario Drive at Slate Creek Drive.
         Orchard Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Orchard Drive at Tanglewood Road.
         Oregon Drive at Hopewell Avenue.
         Oxford Drive at Windsor Drive.
         Oxford Drive, southbound, at Spruce Hills Drive.
         Palmera Court at 23rd Street.
         Pandit Drive at 53rd Avenue.
         Parkdale Drive at Brookside Drive.
         Parkdale Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Parkway Drive at Middle Road.
         Parkway Drive at 18th Street.
         Parkwild Drive at Devils Glen Road.
         Parkwild Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Pepperwood Lane at Charter Oaks Drive.
         Pepperwood Lane at Crow Creek Road.
         Pigeon Creek Road at Hopewell Avenue.
         Pinehill Road at Utica Ridge Road.
         Pinehurst, northbound, at 18th Street.
         Pinehurst, southbound, at 18th Street.
         Pinnacle Pines Court at Lincoln Road.
         Pius Lane at Central Avenue.
         Pleasant Drive at Devils Glen Road.
         Pleasant Drive at Hollowview Drive.
         Pleasant Drive at Wynnewood Road and Greenfield Road.
         Plum Tree Road at Deer Springs Drive.
         Plymouth Drive at Greenbrier Drive.
         Prairie Lane, eastbound, at Parkwild Drive.
         Prairie Vista Circle at Greenbrier Drive.
         Prairie Vista Drive at Amesbury Drive.
         Prairie Vista Drive at Greenbrier Drive.
         Providence Drive at Greenbrier Drive.
         Quail Ridge Road at Belmont Road.
         Queens Court at 18th Street.
         Queens Drive at Greenbrier Drive.
         Raleigh Avenue at Devils Glen Road.
         Remington Road at 53rd Avenue.
         Remington Road North at Hopewell Avenue.
         Richmond Court at Crow Creek Road.
         Ridge Pointe at Belmont Road.
         Ridge Pointe at Middle Road.
         Riverview Lane at Central Avenue.
         Rolling Hills Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Rollingwood Court at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Saint Andrews Circle at 18th Street.
         St. Charles Court at Lundy Lane.
         St. James Avenue at Devils Glen Road.
         St. John’s Court at 18th Street.
         Salem Court at Olympia Drive.
         San Jose Court at Middle Road.
         School House Road at Crow Creek Road.
         Shadowbrook Drive at Crow Creek Road.
         Shaker Court at 18th Street.
         Shoreline Drive at State Street.
         Short Street at Moencks Road.
         Silver Oaks Drive at Tanglewood Road.
         Skyline Drive at Olympia Drive.
         Skyline Drive at Parkway Drive.
         Slate Creek Drive at 53rd Avenue.
         Somerset Drive at Brookside Drive.
         Somerset Drive at Maplecrest Road.
         Somerset Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Somerset Drive, southbound, at Iverness Drive.
         South Grant Street, at the entrance ramp to River Drive, east of 6th
Street.
         South Hampton Drive at Spruce Hills Drive.
         South Hampton Drive at Tam-O-Shanter.
         South Hampton Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
         South Hampton Drive at Windsor Drive.
         Southview, northbound, at 18th Street.
         Southview, southbound, at 18th Street.
         Spring Creek Drive at Forest Grove Drive.
         Squire Court at Terrace Park Drive.
         Squire Drive at Terrace Park Drive.
         Stafford Boulevard at Maplecrest Road.
         Star View Drive at Hopewell Avenue.
         State Street, at the entrance ramp to Grant Street, west of 26th
Street.
         Stender Street at 23rd Street.
         Stender Street at 24th Street.
         Still Creek Pass at Criswell Avenue.
         Stone Haven Court at Crow Creek Road.
         Stone Haven Drive at Crow Creek Road.
         Stone Haven Drive at Gretchen Court.
         Stone Haven Drive at Queens Drive.
         Stone Meadow Court at Crow Creek Road.
         Stone Terrace Court at Crow Creek Road.
         Streamside Drive at Deer Springs Drive.
         Summerfield Drive at Forest Grove Drive.
         Summertree Avenue at Devils Glen Road.
         Summit Hills Drive at Magnolia Drive.
         Summit Hills Drive at Spruce Hills Drive.
         Sun Valley Drive at Halcyon Drive.
         Sunburst Court at 29th Street.
         Sunburst Drive at 29th Street.
         Sunny Hill Drive at Golden Valley Drive.
         Sunset Drive at 18th Street.
         Surrey Drive at Middle Road.
         Susan Court at Greenbrier Drive.
         Sutton Place at 18th Street.
         Sycamore Terrace at Hillside Drive.
         Tam-O-Shanter Drive at Greenbrier Drive.
         Tam-O-Shanter Drive at South Hampton Drive.
         Tam-O-Shanter Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Tanglefoot Court at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Tanglefoot Lane at Devils Glen Road.
         Tanglefoot Lane at Utica Ridge Road.
         Tanglefoot Terrace at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Tanglefoot Terrace at Utica Ridge Road.
         Tanglewood Hills Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Tanglewood Hills Drive at Tanglewood Road.
         Tanglewood Road at Devils Glen Road.
         Tanglewood Road at Middle Road.
         Tech Drive at 18th Street.
         Ten Plus Street at Central Avenue.
         Ten Plus Street at 28th Street.
         Terrace Park Drive at Amesbury Drive.
         Terrace Park Drive at Utica Ridge Road.
         Thorn Street at Central Avenue.
         Thorn Street at 28th Street.
         Thornwood Drive at Crow Creek Road.
         Thunder Ridge Drive at Devils Glen Road.
         Thunder Ridge Road at Joshua Street.
         Timberline Drive at Lincoln Road.
         Towne Pointe Drive at Belmont Road.
         Triangle Court at Hopewell Avenue.
         Utica Ridge Court at Utica Ridge Road.
         Utica Ridge Place at Utica Ridge Road.
         Utica Ridge Road at Summit Hills Drive.
         Utica Ridge Road at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Valley Brook Drive at Crow Creek Road.
         Valley View Drive at Valley Drive.
         Valley View Drive, northbound, at Dodd’s Drive west.
         Valley Vista Drive at Parkway Drive.
         Valleywynds Drive at Devils Glen Road.
         Valleywynds Drive at Field Sike Drive.
         Vanderginst Court at Hopewell Avenue.
         Victoria Street at Maplecrest Road.
         Victoria Street at Tech Drive.
         Villa Court at Barcelona Street.
         Vogel Court at Devils Glen Road.
         Wakonda Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Waveland, northbound, at 18th Street.
         Waveland, southbound, at 18th Street.
         Weindruch Road at State Street.
         Welshire Drive, northbound, at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Welshire Drive, southbound, at Spruce Hills Drive.
         Wendy Court at Stone Haven Drive.
         West Berry Court at 18th Street.
         West Court at Belmont Road.
         West Creekside Lane at Field Sike Drive.
         West Crest Court at 18th Street.
         West Dale Court at 18th Street.
         Westmar Drive, southbound, at Spruce Hills Drive.
         Westwood Drive, southbound, at Spruce Hills Drive.
         Whispering Hills Drive at Hopewell Avenue.
         Whitepost Road at Heatherstone Road.
         Whitepost Road at Surrey Drive.
         Wilderness Pointe at Criswell Street.
         Wildwood Trail at Lincoln Road.
         Willmeyer Drive at Hopewell Avenue.
         Willow Drive at Maplecrest Road.
         Willow Drive at Tech Drive.
         Windsor Drive at South Hampton Drive.
         Windsor Drive, southbound, at Spruce Hills Drive.
         Winston Drive at Devils Glen Road.
         Winston Drive at 31st Street.
         Winston Place at Crow Creek Road.
         Wood Lane at Greenwood Avenue.
         Woodfield Drive at Middle Road.
         Woodland Lane at Hillside Drive.
         Woodland Lane, northbound, at Spruce Hills Drive.
         Woodmayr Drive at Spruce Hills Drive.
         Wrenwood Court at 23rd Street.
         Wyndham Drive at Crow Creek Road.
         Wynnewood Road at Lundy Lane.
         Wynnewood Road at Pleasant Drive.
         4th Street at River Drive.
         8th Street at Grant Street.
         8th Street at Holmes Street.
         8th Street at State Street.
         10th Street at Grant Street.
         10th Street at State Street.
         11th Street at Grant Street.
         11th Street at State Street.
         12th Street at Grant Street.
         12th Street at Holmes Street.
         12th Street at State Street.
         12th Street, northbound, at Gilbert Street.
         13th Street at Gilbert Street.
         14th Street at Fairlane Drive.
         14th Street at Lincoln Road.
         14th Street, northbound, at Middle Road.
         14th Street, southbound, at Central Avenue.
         14th Street, southbound, at Kimberly Road.
         14 1/2 Street at Gilbert Street.
         15th Street at Brown Street.
         15th Street at Central Avenue.
         15th Street at Grant Street.
         15th Street at Mississippi Boulevard.
         15th Street at State Street.
         15th Street, southbound, at Gilbert Street.
         16th Street at Brown Street.
         16th Street at Grant Street.
         16th Street at Mississippi Boulevard.
         16th Street at State Street.
         16 1/2 Street at Central Avenue.
         17th Street at Central Avenue.
         17th Street at Grant Street.
         17th Street at Mississippi Boulevard.
         17th Street at State Street.
         18th Street at Central Avenue.
         18th Street at Lincoln Road.
         19th Street at Central Avenue.
         19th Street at Grant Street.
         19th Street at Lincoln Road.
         19th Street at State Street.
         20th Street at Grant Street.
         20th Street at Parkway Drive.
         20th Street at State Street.
         21st Street at Central Avenue.
         21st Street at Grant Street.
         21st Street at Lincoln Road.
         21st Street at State Street.
         22nd Street at Grant Street.
         23rd Street at Central Avenue.
         23rd Street Court at 23rd Street.
         24th Street at Central Avenue.
         25th Street at Bellevue Avenue.
         25th Street at Central Avenue.
         25th Street at Lincoln Road.
         25th Street at Oak Street.
         26th Street at Bellevue Avenue.
         26th Street at Central Avenue.
         26th Street at Oak Street.
         26 1/2 Street at State Street.
         27th Street at Central Avenue.
         27th Street at State Street.
         28th Street at Bellevue Avenue.
         28th Street at Central Avenue.
         28th Street at Oak Street.
         28th Street at State Street.
         28 1/2 Street at State Street.
         28 1/2 Street at Ten Plus Street.
         29th Street at Bellevue Avenue.
         29th Street at Central Avenue.
         29th Street at Maplecrest Road.
         29th Street at Middle Road.
         29th Street at Oak Street.
         29th Street at State Street.
         29th Street at Tanglefoot Lane.
         30th Street at Central Avenue.
         30th Street at State Street.
         31st Street at Central Avenue.
         31st Street at Crow Creek Road.
         33rd Street at Central Avenue.
         33rd Street at State Street.
         South 33rd Street, northbound and southbound, at the railroad/
bicyclist crossing in the 200 block.
         34th Street at Crow Creek Road.
         39th Street at State Street.
         40th Avenue at Utica Ridge Road.
         42nd Street at State Street.
         43rd Avenue Court at Devils Glen Road.
         48th Avenue at Davis Street.
         48th Avenue at Norfolk Drive.
         52nd Avenue Court at Lockwood Drive.
         56th Street at Indiana Avenue.
         56th Street at 18th Street.
         62nd Street Court at State Street.
      3.   School Stop Sign: Upon approaching any school stop sign, the driver
of any vehicle shall bring the vehicle to a complete stop and shall yield the
right-of-way to children or pedestrians waiting to cross the street before
proceeding onward.
   B.   Yield Streets:
      1.   Yield Required: The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign
shall slow to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and, if required
for safety, shall stop at the first opportunity at either the clearly marked
stop line or before entering the crosswalk or before entering the intersection
or at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or stopping, the
driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle on the intersecting roadway
which has entered the intersection or which is approaching so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or
within the intersection. (2008 Code § 17-322)
      2.   Yield Intersections Enumerated: The following intersections are
yield intersections and are listed by the street which shall yield to the
through street:
         Amesbury Drive at Squire Drive.
         Asbury Street at New Lexington Drive.
         Aspen Hills Drive at Asbury Street.
         Barcelona Street, eastbound, at Field Sike Drive.
         Belair Drive at Wakonda Drive.
         Brown Street at 19th Street.
         Cash’s Path at Genesis Way.
         Chamberlin Avenue at School House Road.
         Cody Street at 28th Street.
         Coffelt Avenue, northbound, at Riverview Park Drive.
         Crestview Drive at Hawthorne Drive.
         Cypress Drive at Hawthorne Drive.
         Deer Ridge Court at Deerbrook Drive.
         Deer Springs Drive at Deerbrook Drive.
         Devils Glen Road at Barr Street.
         Dodd's Drive, southbound, at Valley View Drive east.
         East Crest Avenue at Apple Valley Drive.
         Emily Road at 55th Avenue.
         Emily Court at 55th Avenue.
         Fairview Drive at Parkwild Drive.
         Fairview Drive at Winston Drive.
         Glen Eagles Drive at Heather Glen Avenue.
         Golden Valley Drive at Tanglefoot Lane.
         Grant Street at Greenwood Avenue.
         Greenway Drive at Parkway Drive.
         Grove Crossing/Cash’s Path at Jakes Ln./Grove Crossing Ct.
         Hamilton Drive at Plymouth Drive.
         Happiness Lane at Idaho Drive.
         Hawthorne Court at Hawthorne Drive.
         Hawthorne Drive at Parkway Drive.
         Hillcrest Avenue at Harmony Drive.
         Holly Drive at Hawthorne Drive.
         Holmes Street at 4th Street.
         Judge Road at Julie Ann Road.
         Keeneland Court at Kingsway Drive.
         Kristi Ln. at Berkshire St.
         Kynnelworth Drive, southbound, at Kynnelworth Avenue.
         Learning Campus Drive, northbound, at private entrance four hundred
fifty feet (450') west of 18th Street.
         Lindenwood Drive at Dove Court.
         Lockwood Drive at Summertree Avenue.
         Matthew’s Pass/Matthew’s Ct. at Cash’s Path.
         Middle Road at Indiana Avenue, left turning vehicles.
         Middle Road at 18th Street, right turning vehicles.
         Middle Road, northbound and southbound, at 53rd Avenue.
         Middle Road, westbound, at Devils Glen Road, right turning vehicles.
         Mississippi Boulevard at 4th Street.
         Norwood Drive, westbound, at Spencer Drive South.
         Oak Street at 161/2 Street.
         Oakwood Drive at Welshire Drive.
         Pine Hill Road at Rolling Hills Drive.
         Plymouth Drive at Amesbury Drive.
         Prairie Lane, westbound, at Parkwild Drive.
         Prairie Vista Circle at Prairie Vista Drive.
         Quail Ridge Road at Woodfield Drive.
         Robeson Avenue, eastbound, at Alcoa Avenue.
         Robeson Avenue, westbound, at Alcoa Avenue.
         Rolling Hills Drive at Tanglefoot Terrace.
         Rolling Hills Drive at Utica Ridge Court.
         St. David Drive at Lundy Lane.
         Sapphire Lane at Friendship Path.
         Sapphire Lane at International Drive.
         Spencer Drive at Trail's End Road.
         Spencer Drive, northbound, at Norwood Drive North.
         Squire Drive at Tanglefoot Terrace.
         Sussex Court at Avalon Drive.
         Sutton Place at Avalon Drive.
         Sycamore Terrace at Parkway Drive.
         Tech Drive at Happy Joe Drive.
         Trail's End Road at Woodcrest Drive.
         Wakonda Drive at Prairie Vista Drive.
         White Tail Drive at Deertrail Road.
         Willowwood Drive at Cedarview Court.
         Winston Place at Aspen Valley Drive.
         Woodberry Court at Deerbrook Drive.
         Woodberry Place at Deerbrook Drive.
         141/2 Street at Lady Luck Parkway.
         161/2 Street at Alcoa Avenue.
         17th Street at Alcoa Avenue.
         19th Street at Mississippi Boulevard.
         28th Street at Glenn Street.
         29th Street, northbound and southbound, at Glenn Street.
         31st Street at Parkwild Drive.
         49th Avenue at Dove Court.
         53rd Avenue, eastbound and westbound, at Middle Road.
         55th Avenue at Idaho Drive.
         62nd Street Court at Shoreline Drive.
(2008 Code § 17-322; amd. Ord. 16-13, 8-20-2013; Ord. 24-13, 9-3-2013; Ord. 32-
13, 12-3-2013; Ord. 12-14, 5-20-2014; Ord. 13-14, 6-17-2014; Ord. 22-14, 11-4-
2014; Ord. 01-15, 1-6-2015; Ord. 14-15, 8-4-2015; Ord. 15-15, 8-4-2015; Ord.
20-15, 10-6-2015; Ord. 26-15, 11-3-2015; Ord. 03-16, 2-2-2016; Ord. 01-17, 1-
17-2017; Ord. 31-17, 9-19-2017; Ord. 32-17, 8-3-2017; Ord. 06-18, 4-3-2018;
Ord. 16-19, 7-16-2019; Ord. 17-19, 8-6-2019; Ord. 18-19, 8-6-2019; Ord. 19-19,
10-1-2019; Ord. 21-19, 10-15-2019; Ord. 23-19, 11-5-2019; Ord. 10-20, 8-4-2020;
Ord. 13-20, 12-1-2020; Ord. 01-21, 1-19-2021; Ord. 10-21, 5-18-2021; Ord. 18-
21, 11-2-2021; Ord. 01-22, 3-1-2022; Ord. 12-22, 8-2-2022; Ord 01-23, 1-3-2023;
Ord. 04-23, 1-17-2023; Ord. 10-23, 5-2-2023; Ord. 21-23, 10-3-2023; Ord. 22-23,
10-3-2023; Ord. 24-23, 11-7-2023; Ord. 29-23, 12-5-2023; Ord. 03-24, 1-16-2024;
Ord. 14-24, 5-7-2024; Ord. 05-25, 3-18-2025)
6-1-323: MOVING VEHICLE BACKWARD ON HIGHWAY:
A person shall not cause a vehicle to be moved in a backward direction on a
highway unless and until the vehicle can be backed with reasonable safety, and
shall yield the right-of- way to any approaching vehicle on the highway or an
intersecting highway which is so close as to constitute an immediate hazard.
(2008 Code § 17-323)
6-1-323A: APPROACHING CERTAIN STATIONARY VEHICLES:
   A.   Authorized Emergency Vehicles: The operator of a motor vehicle
approaching a stationary authorized emergency vehicle that is displaying
flashing yellow, amber, white, red, or red and blue lights shall approach the
authorized emergency vehicle with due caution and shall proceed in one of the
following manners, absent any other direction by a peace officer:
      1.   Make a lane change into a lane not adjacent to the authorized
emergency vehicle if possible in the existing safety and traffic conditions.
      2.   If a lane change under subsection A1 of this section would be
impossible, prohibited by law, or unsafe, reduce the speed of the motor vehicle
to a reasonable and proper speed for the existing road and traffic conditions,
which speed shall be less than the posted speed limit, and be prepared to stop.
   B.   Towing, Utility Or Highway Maintenance Vehicles: The operator of a
motor vehicle approaching a stationary towing or recovery vehicle, a stationary
utility maintenance vehicle, a stationary municipal maintenance vehicle, or a
stationary highway maintenance vehicle, that is displaying flashing yellow,
amber, or red lights, shall approach the vehicle with due caution and shall
proceed in one of the following manners, absent any other direction by a peace
officer:
      1.   Make a lane change into a lane not adjacent to the towing, recovery,
utility maintenance, municipal maintenance, or highway maintenance vehicle if
possible in the existing safety and traffic conditions.
      2.   If a lane change under subsection B1 of this section would be
impossible, prohibited by law, or unsafe, reduce the speed of the motor vehicle
to a reasonable and proper speed for the existing road and traffic conditions,
which speed shall be less than the posted speed limit, and be prepared to stop.
(2008 Code § 17-323A)
6-1-324: OPERATION ON APPROACH OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicle: Upon the immediate approach
of an authorized emergency vehicle with any lamp or device displaying a red
light or red and blue lights, or an authorized emergency vehicle of a fire
department displaying a blue light, or when the driver is giving audible signal
by siren, exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall
yield the right of way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to,
and as close as possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the highway clear
of any intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer. For the purpose of this section, "red light" or "blue light"
means a light or lighting device that, when illuminated, will exhibit a solid
flashing or strobing red or blue light. (2008 Code § 17-324; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Driver Of Authorized Emergency Vehicle: This section shall not operate
to relieve the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive
with due regard for the safety of all persons using the highway. (2008 Code §
17-324)
6-1-324A: FUNERAL PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Vehicles In Procession: For purposes of this section, "funeral
procession" means a procession of motor vehicles accompanying the body of a
deceased person during daylight hours which is being escorted by a vehicle
continually displaying its emergency signal lamps flashing simultaneously and
using lighted headlamps and identifying flags, and keeping all other motor
vehicles with lighted headlamps in close formation.
   B.   Approach Of Procession: Upon the immediate approach of a funeral
procession, the driver of every other vehicle, except an authorized emergency
vehicle, shall yield the right of way.
   C.   Drivers In Procession Exempt From Traffic Rules: An operator of a motor
vehicle which is part of a funeral procession shall not be charged with
violating traffic rules and regulations relating to traffic signals and devices
while participating in the procession unless the operation is reckless. (2008
Code § 17-324A)
6-1-325: PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO SIGNALS:
   A.   Pedestrians shall obey the instructions of any official traffic control
device specifically applicable to him unless otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   B.   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic and pedestrian controlled
signals as provided in Iowa Code section 321.257.
   C.   At all other places, pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges and
shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter. (2008 Code § 17-
325)
6-1-326: PEDESTRIANS ON HIGHWAYS:
   A.   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent highway.
   B.   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   C.   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   D.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any pedestrian on a
roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway. (2008
Code § 17-326)
6-1-327: PEDESTRIANS' RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger.
   B.   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   C.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle. (2008 Code § 17-327)
6-1-328: CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALK:
   A.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   B.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right of way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   C.   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   D.   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic control devices; and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic control devices pertaining to such crossing movements. (2008 Code § 17-
328)
6-1-329: DUTY OF DRIVER; PEDESTRIANS CROSSING OR WORKING ON HIGHWAYS:
   A.   Notwithstanding the provisions of section
6-1-328 of this chapter, every driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to
avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway and shall give warning by
sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise due care upon observing any
child or any confused or incapacitated person upon a roadway.
   B.   Every driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way to pedestrian
workers engaged in maintenance or construction work on a highway whenever the
driver is notified of the presence of such workers by a flagman or a warning
sign. (2008 Code § 17-329)
6-1-330: USE OF CROSSWALKS:
Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks. (2008 Code § 17-330)
6-1-331: PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS:
   A.   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride
from the driver of any private vehicle, or for the purpose of soliciting
employment, business, or contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
   B.   Nothing in this section or this chapter shall be construed so as to
prevent any pedestrian from standing on that portion of the highway or roadway,
not ordinarily used for vehicular traffic, for the purpose of soliciting a ride
from the driver of any vehicle. (2008 Code § 17-331)
6-1-332: PEDESTRIANS' RIGHT OF WAY ON SIDEWALKS:
The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian on a
sidewalk. (2008 Code § 17-332)
6-1-333: BLIND PEDESTRIAN; DUTY OF DRIVERS:
Any driver of a vehicle or operator of a motor driven vehicle who approaches or
comes in contact with a person wholly or partially blind carrying a cane or
walking stick white in color or white tipped with red, or being led by a guide
dog wearing a harness and walking on either side of or slightly in front of
said blind person, shall immediately come to a complete stop, and take such
precautions as may be necessary to avoid accident or injury to the person
carrying a cane or walking stick white in color or white tipped with red or
being led by a guide dog. (2008 Code § 17-333)
6-1-334 - 6-1-340: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-341: OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL OF TRAIN:
   A.   When a person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade crossing
and warning is given by automatic signal, crossing gates, a flag person, or
otherwise of the immediate approach of a train, the driver of the vehicle shall
stop within fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen feet (15') from the
nearest rail and shall not proceed until the driver can do so safely. (2008
Code § 17-341)
   B.   The driver of a vehicle shall stop and remain standing and not traverse
such a grade crossing when a crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagman
gives or continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a train or
railroad track equipment. (2008 Code § 17-341; amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-342: STOP AT CERTAIN RAILROAD CROSSINGS; POSTING WARNING:
The driver of any vehicle approaching a railroad grade crossing across which
traffic is regulated by a stop sign, a railroad sign directing traffic to stop
or an official traffic control signal displaying a flashing red or steady
circular red colored light shall stop prior to crossing the railroad at the
first opportunity at either the clearly marked stop line or at a point near the
crossing where the driver has a clear view of the approaching railroad traffic.
(2008 Code § 17-342)
6-1-343: CERTAIN VEHICLES MUST STOP:
   A.   The driver of a motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, a school
bus, or a vehicle carrying hazardous material and required to stop before
crossing a railroad, before crossing at grade any track of a railroad, shall
stop the vehicle within fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen feet (15')
from the nearest rail. While stopped, the driver shall listen and look in both
directions for an approaching train, and for signals indicating the approach of
a train, and shall not proceed until the driver can do so safely.
   B.   No stop need be made at a crossing where a peace officer or a traffic
control device directs traffic to proceed. No stop need be made at a crossing
designated by an "exempt" sign. An "exempt" sign shall be posted only where the
tracks have been partially removed on either side of the roadway. (2008 Code §
17-343)
6-1-344 - 6-1-352: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-353: STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK; RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle emerging from or turning into a private
roadway, alley, driveway, or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto the sidewalk area and thereafter the driver shall proceed into
the sidewalk area only when the driver can do so without danger to pedestrian
traffic, and the driver shall yield the right of way to any vehicular traffic
on the street into which the driver's vehicle is entering.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from a
private road or driveway shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving
on said highway and shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on
said highway. (2008 Code § 17-353)
6-1-354: STOPPING ON TRAVELED WAY:
   A.   Prohibited Areas: Upon any highway outside of a business district,
rural residence district or residence district, a person shall not stop, park,
or leave standing a vehicle, whether attended or unattended:
      1.   Upon the paved part of the highway when it is practical to stop,
park, or leave the vehicle off that part of the highway; however, a clear and
unobstructed width of at least twenty feet (20') of the paved part of the
highway opposite the standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of
other vehicles. As used in this subsection, "paved highway" includes an asphalt
surfaced highway.
      2.   Upon the main traveled part of a highway other than a paved highway
when it is practical to stop, park, or leave the vehicle off that part of the
highway. However, a clear and unobstructed width of that part of the highway
opposite the standing vehicle shall be left to allow for the free passage of
other vehicles.
   B.   Clear View: A clear view of the stopped vehicle shall be available from
a distance of two hundred feet (200') in each direction upon the highway.
However, school buses may stop on the highway for receiving and discharging
pupils and all other vehicles shall stop for school buses which are stopped to
receive or discharge pupils, as provided in section
6-1-372 of this chapter.
   C.   Exception: This section does not apply to a vehicle making a turn as
provided in section
6-1-311 of this chapter. (2008 Code § 17-354)
6-1-355 - 6-1-361: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-362: UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE:
No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, or when standing upon any
perceptible grade without effectively setting the brake thereon and turning the
front wheels to the curb or side of the highway. (2008 Code § 17-362)
6-1-363: OBSTRUCTION TO DRIVER'S VIEW:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there are
in the front seat such number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver's
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (2008 Code § 17-363)
6-1-364: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-365: COASTING PROHIBITED:
The driver of a motor vehicle shall not drive with the source of motive power
disengaged from the driving wheels except when disengagement is necessary to
stop or to shift gears. (2008 Code § 17-365)
6-1-366: CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES; UNLAWFUL USE; FACILITIES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Defined: For the purpose of this section, a "controlled access
facility" shall mean a highway or street especially designed for through
traffic, and over, from or to which owners or occupants of abutting land or
other persons have no right or easement or only a controlled right of easement
of access, light, air or view by reason of the fact that their property abuts
upon the controlled access facility or for any other reason. Such highways or
streets may be freeways open to use by all customary forms of street and
highway traffic or they may be parkways from which trucks, buses, and other
commercial vehicles shall be excluded.
   B.   Unlawful Uses Enumerated: It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Drive a vehicle over, upon or across any curb, central dividing
section or other separation or dividing line on a controlled access facility.
      2.   Make a left turn or a semicircular or U-turn at maintenance
crossovers except by maintenance vehicles and authorized emergency vehicles.
      3.   Drive any vehicle except in the proper lane provided for that
purpose and in the proper direction and to the right of the central dividing
curb, separation section or line.
      4.   Drive any vehicle into the controlled access facility from a local
service road except through an opening provided for that purpose in the
dividing curb, dividing section or dividing line which separates the service
road from the controlled access facility property.
      5.   Stop, park, or leave standing a vehicle, whether attended or
unattended, upon the paved portion.
      6.   Stop, park or leave standing a vehicle, whether attended or
unattended, upon the shoulders, or the right of way except at designated rest
areas or in case of an emergency or other dire necessity.
      7.   No person shall have any right of ingress or egress across any
controlled access facilities except at such points as are permitted by the Iowa
department of transportation and the city.
      8.   Walk, ride a bicycle, ride an animal or animal drawn device upon I-
74 or I-80 unless necessary to respond to an emergency (such as, but not
limited to, vehicle breakdown) or pursuant to permission given by the Iowa
department of transportation.
   C.   Facilities On U.S. 6 Established: There is hereby fixed and established
controlled access facilities on primary road number U.S. 6 within the city,
regulating access to and from said primary road from abutting property along
said road as follows:
Kimberly Road (northbound) from Sta. 399+55.1 being approximately 1,532.8 feet
northwesterly of 14th Street southeasterly to intersection with 14th Street and
Mississippi Boulevard.
Kimberly Road (southbound) from Sta. 401+25 being approximately northwesterly
of 13th Street southeasterly to intersection with 13th Street and Mississippi
Boulevard.
13th Street from Mississippi Boulevard to State Street.
14th Street from Mississippi Boulevard to State Street.
   D.   Facilities On I-74 Established; Limitation Of Access Points: There is
hereby fixed and established fully controlled access facilities on interstate
road I-74 within the city, prohibiting access to and from said interstate road
from abutting properties along the road, except at such designated points at
which access may be permitted by the Iowa department of transportation, upon
such terms and conditions as may be specified from time to time. Access rights
shall not be destroyed except by purchase or appropriate condemnation
proceedings thereof. Access rights shall be subject to such regulations in the
interest of public welfare and safety as the city and the Iowa department of
transportation may agree upon; provided, that no additional accessways or
change of use shall be permitted by the city without the consent and approval
of the Iowa department of transportation.
   E.   Facilities On U.S. 67 Established: There is hereby fixed and
established controlled access facilities on primary road number U.S. 67 within
the city regulating access to and from said primary road from abutting
properties along said road as follows:
Grant Street from South Grant Street to 26th Street.
River Drive from the west city limits to 6th Street.
River Drive from 6th Street to 8th Street.
South Grant Street from Grant Street to 6th Street.
State Street from Fenno Road to the east city limits.
State Street from 8th Street to 26th Street.
State Street from 26th Street to the east city limits, being also the west city
limits of the city of Riverdale.
   F.   Facilities On I-80 Established: There is hereby fixed and established
fully controlled access facilities on interstate road I-80 within the city,
prohibiting access to and from said interstate road from abutting properties
along the road, except at such designated points at which access may be
permitted by the Iowa department of transportation, upon such terms and
conditions as may be specified from time to time. Access rights shall not be
destroyed except by purchase or appropriate condemnation proceedings thereof.
Access rights shall be subject to such regulations in the interest of public
welfare and safety as the city and the Iowa department of transportation may
agree upon; provided, that no additional accessways or change of use shall be
permitted by the city without the consent and approval of the Iowa department
of transportation.
   G.   Measurement, Points Of Reference Generally: The points of access shall
consist of accessways from abutting property to the adjacent traffic lane or
roadway and their locations shall be expressed in terms of "stations", each
being represented a distance of one hundred feet (100'), measured along the
centerline of the controlled access facility from the points of references
stated in this section. Such measurements shall refer to the center of the
accessways. (2008 Code § 17-366)
6-1-367: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS:
The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than five
hundred feet (500') or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where
fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm. (2008 Code § 17-367)
6-1-368: CROSSING FIRE HOSE:
No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department when
laid down on any street, private driveway, or streetcar track, to be used at
any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the fire department official
in command. (2008 Code § 17-368)
6-1-369: PUTTING DEBRIS ON HIGHWAY:
A person shall not throw or deposit upon a highway any glass bottle, glass,
nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal, or any other
debris. A person shall not throw or deposit upon a highway a substance likely
to injure any person, animal or vehicle upon the highway. (2008 Code § 17-369)
6-1-370: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-371: CLEARING UP WRECKS:
Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway shall remove
any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the highway from such
vehicle. (2008 Code § 17-371)
6-1-372: SCHOOL BUSES; DISCHARGING PUPILS; STOPPING REQUIREMENTS:
This section shall be known and may be cited as the KEEP AWARE DRIVING - YOUTH
NEED SCHOOL SAFETY ACT.
   A.   Bus And Driver Requirements:
      1.   The driver of a school bus used to transport children to and from a
public or private school shall, when stopping to receive or discharge pupils,
turn on flashing warning lamps at a distance of not less than three hundred
feet (300') nor more than five hundred feet (500') from the point where the
pupils are to be received or discharged from the bus if the speed limit at that
point is forty five (45) miles per hour or greater and shall turn on flashing
warning lamps at a distance of not less than one hundred fifty feet (150') from
the point where the pupils are to be received or discharged from the bus if the
speed limit at that point is less than forty five (45) miles per hour. At the
point of receiving or discharging pupils, the driver of the bus shall bring the
bus to a stop, turn off the amber flashing warning lamps, turn on the red
flashing warning lamps, and extend the stop arm. After receiving or discharging
pupils, the bus driver shall turn off all flashing warning lamps, retract the
stop arm and proceed on the route. Except to the extent that reduced visibility
is caused by fog, snow, or other weather conditions, a school bus shall not
stop to receive or discharge pupils unless there is at least three hundred feet
(300') of unobstructed vision in each direction. However, the driver of a
school bus is not required to use flashing warning lamps and the stop arm when
receiving or discharging pupils at a designated loading and unloading zone at a
school attendance center or at extracurricular or educational activity
locations where students exiting the bus do not have to cross the street or
highway.
      2.   If a school district contracts with an urban transit system to
transport children to and from a public or private school, the school bus which
is provided by the urban transit system shall not be required to be equipped
with flashing warning lights and a stop arm. If the school bus provided by an
urban transit system is equipped with flashing warning lights and a stop arm,
the driver of the school bus shall use the flashing warning light and stop arm
as required by law.
      3.   A school bus, when operating on a highway with four (4) or more
lanes shall not stop to load or unload pupils who must cross the highway,
except at designated stops where pupils who must cross the highway may do so at
points where there are official traffic control devices or police officers.
      4.   A school bus shall, while carrying passengers, have its headlights
turned on.
   B.   Receiving And Discharging Pupils: All pupils shall be received and
discharged from the right front entrance of every school bus and if said pupils
must cross the highway, they shall be required to pass in front of the bus,
look in both directions, and proceed to cross the highway only on signal from
the bus driver.
   C.   Meeting Or Overtaking School Bus:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle, including the driver of a vehicle operating
on a private road or driveway, when meeting a school bus with flashing amber
warning lamps shall reduce the vehicle's speed to not more than twenty (20)
miles per hour, and shall bring the vehicle to a complete stop when the school
bus stops and the stop signal arm is extended. The vehicle shall remain stopped
until the stop signal arm is retracted after which time the driver may proceed
with due caution.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle, including the driver of a vehicle operating
on a private road or driveway, overtaking a school bus shall not pass a school
bus when red or amber warning signal lights are flashing. The driver shall
bring the vehicle to a complete stop no closer than fifteen feet (15') from the
school bus when it is stopped and the stop arm is extended, and the vehicle
shall remain stopped until the stop arm is retracted and the school bus resumes
motion.
   D.   Highway Providing Two Or More Lanes In Each Direction: The driver of a
vehicle upon a highway providing two (2) or more lanes in each direction need
not stop upon meeting a school bus which is traveling in the opposite direction
even though the school bus is stopped.
   E.   Violations; Penalties:
      1.   The driver of a school bus who commits a violation of subsection A
or B of this section is guilty of a simple misdemeanor punishable as a
scheduled violation under Iowa Code section 805.8A, subsection 10. (2008 Code §
17-372; amd. 2015 Code)
      2.   A person convicted of a violation of subsection C of this section is
subject to the following: For a first offense under subsection C of this
section, the person is guilty of a simple misdemeanor punishable by a fine of
at least two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) but not more than six hundred
seventy five dollars ($675.00). (Ord. 01-18, 1-2-2018)
6-1-373 - 6-1-380: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-381: MOVEMENT OF UNSAFE OR IMPROPERLY EQUIPPED VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to cause or
knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all times equipped
with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and adjustment as
required in this chapter, or which is equipped with one or more unsafe tires or
which is equipped in any manner in violation of this chapter or Iowa Code
chapter 321. (2008 Code § 17-381)
6-1-382 - 6-1-383: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-384: WHEN LIGHTED LAMPS REQUIRED:
   A.   Every motor vehicle upon a highway, at any time from sunset to sunrise,
and at such other times when conditions such as fog, snow, sleet, or rain
provide insufficient lighting to render clearly discernible persons and
vehicles on the highway at a distance of five hundred feet (500') ahead, shall
display lighted headlamps, subject to exceptions with respect to parked
vehicles as hereinafter stated.
   B.   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the distance from
which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible or within which
such lamps or devices shall be visible, said provisions shall apply during the
times stated in subsection A of this section upon a straight level unlighted
highway under normal atmospheric conditions unless a different time or
condition is expressly stated. (2008 Code § 17-384)
6-1-385: HEADLAMPS ON MOTOR VEHICLES:
Every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle shall be
equipped with at least two (2) headlamps with at least one on each side of the
front of the motor vehicle, which headlamps shall comply with the requirements
and limitations set forth in this chapter. (2008 Code § 17-385)
6-1-386: HEADLAMPS ON MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORIZED BICYCLES:
Every motorcycle and motorized bicycle shall be equipped with at least one and
not more than two (2) headlamps which shall comply with the requirements and
limitations of this chapter. (2008 Code § 17-386)
6-1-387: REAR LAMPS:
Every motor vehicle and every vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a
train of vehicles shall be equipped with a lighted rear lamp or lamps,
exhibiting a red light plainly visible from a distance of five hundred feet
(500') to the rear. All lamps and lighting equipment originally manufactured on
a motor vehicle shall be kept in working condition or shall be replaced with
equivalent equipment. (2008 Code § 17-387)
6-1-388: ILLUMINATING PLATES:
Either the rear lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and placed as
to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate and render it
clearly legible from a distance of fifty feet (50') to the rear. When the rear
registration plate is illuminated by an electric lamp other than the required
rear lamp, the two (2) lamps shall be turned on or off only by the same control
switch at all times when headlamps are lighted. (2008 Code § 17-388)
6-1-389 - 6-1-393: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-394: LAMP OR FLAG ON PROJECTING LOAD:
Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet (4') or more
beyond the bed or body of such vehicle, there shall be displayed at the extreme
rear end of the load, at the times specified in section
6-1-384 of this chapter, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance
of at least five hundred feet (500') to the sides and rear. The red light or
lantern required under this section shall be in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than sixteen inches
(16") square. (2008 Code § 17-394)
6-1-395 - 6-1-396: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-397: LAMPS ON BICYCLES:
   A.   Requirement: Every bicycle shall be equipped with a lamp on the front
exhibiting a white light, at the times specified in section
6-1-384 of this chapter visible from a distance of at least three hundred feet
(300') to the front and with a lamp on the rear exhibiting a red light visible
from a distance of three hundred feet (300') to the rear; except that a red
reflector meeting the requirements of Iowa Code chapter 321 may be used in lieu
of a rear light.
   B.   Exception: A peace officer riding a police bicycle is not required to
use either front or rear lamps if duty so requires. (2008 Code § 17-397)
6-1-398: LAMPS ON OTHER VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT:
All vehicles, including animal drawn vehicles and including those referred to
in Iowa Code section 321.383 not hereinbefore specifically required to be
equipped with lamps, shall at the times specified in section
6-1-384 of this chapter be equipped with at least one lighted lamp or lantern
exhibiting a white light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to
the front of such vehicle and, except for animal drawn vehicles, with a lamp or
lantern exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet
(500') to the rear. Animal drawn vehicles shall be equipped with a flashing
amber light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear of
the vehicle during the time specified in section
6-1-384 of this chapter. (2008 Code § 17-398)
6-1-399 - 6-1-401: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-402: SPOT LAMPS:
Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed one spot lamp and every
lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another vehicle
that no part of the high intensity portion of the beam will be directed to the
left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle nor more than
one hundred feet (100') ahead of the vehicle. (2008 Code § 17-402)
6-1-403: AUXILIARY DRIVING LAMPS:
Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed three (3) auxiliary
driving lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than twelve inches
(12") nor more than forty two inches (42") above the level surface upon which
the vehicle stands, and every such auxiliary driving lamp or lamps shall meet
the requirements and limitations set forth in this chapter. (2008 Code § 17-
403)
6-1-404: SIGNAL LAMPS AND SIGNAL DEVICES:
Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a signal lamp or signal device which
is so constructed and located on the vehicle as to give a signal of intention
to stop, which shall be red or yellow in color, which signal shall be plainly
visible and understandable in normal sunlight and at night from a distance of
one hundred feet (100') to the rear but shall not project a glaring or dazzling
light. (2008 Code § 17-404)
6-1-404A: LIGHT RESTRICTING DEVICES PROHIBITED:
A person shall not operate a motor vehicle if it is equipped with a device, or
has been altered in any way, to restrict the light output of a headlight,
taillight, brake light or turn signal. (Ord. 04-17, 4-18-2017)
6-1-405 - 6-1-407: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-408: BACKUP LAMPS:
Any motor vehicle may be equipped with a backup lamp either separately or in
combination with another lamp; except that no such backup lamp shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion. (2008 Code §
17-408)
6-1-409: MANDATORY LIGHTING EQUIPMENT:
Except as hereinafter provided, the headlamps or the auxiliary driving lamp or
the auxiliary passing lamp or combination thereof on motor vehicles other than
motorcycles or motorized bicycles shall be so arranged that the driver may
select at will between distributions of light projected to different elevations
and the lamps may, in addition, be so arranged that selection can be made
automatically, subject to the following limitations:
   A.   There shall be an uppermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least three hundred fifty feet (350') ahead for all conditions.
   B.   There shall be a lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam so
aimed and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance
of at least one hundred feet (100') ahead. On a straight level road under any
condition of loading, none of the high intensity portion of the beam shall be
directed to strike the eyes of an approaching driver.
   C.   Every new motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle
which has multiple beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam
indicator, which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light
from the headlamps is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. The indicator
shall be so designed and located that when lighted it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle. (2008 Code § 17-409)
6-1-410 - 6-1-414: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-415: REQUIRED USAGE OF LIGHTING DEVICES:
Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder during the
times specified in section
6-1-384 of this chapter, the driver shall use a distribution of light, or
composite beam, directed high enough and of sufficient intensity to reveal
persons and vehicles at a safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to
the following requirements and limitations:
   A.   Whenever a driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle within
one thousand feet (1,000'), the driver shall use a distribution of light, or
composite beam, so aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes
of the oncoming driver. The lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
specified in subsection
6-1-409B of this chapter shall be deemed to avoid glare at all times,
regardless of road contour and loading.
   B.   Whenever the driver of a vehicle follows another vehicle within four
hundred feet (400') to the rear, except when engaged in the act of overtaking
and passing, the driver shall use a distribution of light permissible under
this chapter other than the uppermost distribution of light specified in
subsection
6-1-409A of this chapter.
   C.   The provisions of subsections A and B of this section do not apply to
motorcycles or motorized bicycles being operated between sunrise and sunset.
(2008 Code § 17-415)
6-1-416 - 6-1-418: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-419: NUMBER OF DRIVING LAMPS REQUIRED OR PERMITTED:
At all times specified in section
6-1-384 of this chapter, at least two (2) lighted lamps, except where one (1)
only is permitted, shall be displayed, one (1) on each side at the front of
every motor vehicle except when such vehicle is parked subject to the
regulations governing lights on parked vehicles. (2008 Code § 17-419)
6-1-420: NUMBER OF LAMPS LIGHTED:
Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlamps as herein required is also
equipped with any auxiliary lamps or a spot lamp or any other lamp on the front
thereof projecting a beam of an intensity greater than three hundred (300)
candlepower, not more than a total of four (4) of any such lamps on the front
of a vehicle shall be lighted at any one time when upon a highway. (2008 Code §
17-420)
6-1-421: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-422: RED LIGHT IN FRONT; REAR LIGHTS:
   A.   Restrictions:
      1.   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or equipment upon any
highway with any lamp or device thereon displaying or reflecting a red light
visible from directly in front thereof.
      2.   No person shall display any color of light other than red on the
rear of any vehicle, except that stoplights and directional signals may be red,
yellow, or amber.
   B.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to authorized emergency
vehicles, or school buses and vehicles as provided in subsection
6-1-423F of this chapter. (2008 Code § 17-422)
6-1-423: FLASHING LIGHTS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, unless the context otherwise
requires:
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL CARE PROVIDER: As defined in Iowa Code section 147A.1.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT: A paid or volunteer fire protection service provided by a
benefited fire district under Iowa Code chapter 357B or by a county,
municipality or township, or a private corporate organization that has a valid
contract to provide fire protection service for a benefited fire district,
county, municipality, township or governmental agency.
   MEMBER: A person who is a member in good standing of a fire department or a
person who is an emergency medical care provider employed by an ambulance,
rescue, or first responder service.
   B.   Prohibited Lights; Exceptions: A flashing light on or in a motor
vehicle is prohibited except as follows:
      1.   On an authorized emergency vehicle.
      2.   On a vehicle as a means of indicating a right or left turn, a
mechanical failure, or an emergency stop or intent to stop.
      3.   On a motor vehicle used by a rural mail carrier when stopping or
stopped on or near a highway in the process of delivering mail, if such a light
is any shade of color between white and amber and if it is mounted as a dome
light on the roof of the vehicle.
      4.   On a vehicle being operated under an excess size permit issued under
Iowa Code chapter 321E.
      5.   A flashing blue light on a vehicle upon which a blue light is
permitted pursuant to subsection C of this section.
      6.   A flashing white light is permitted on a vehicle pursuant to
subsection G of this section. (2008 Code § 17-423)
      7.   Flashing red and amber warning lights on a school bus as described
in Iowa Code section 321.372, and a white flashing strobe light mounted on a
school bus as permitted under Iowa Code section 321.373, subsection 7.
      8.   A flashing amber light is permitted on a towing or recovery vehicle,
a utility maintenance vehicle, a municipal maintenance vehicle, a highway
maintenance vehicle or a vehicle operated in accordance with Iowa Code section
321.423, subsection 6 or sections 321.398 or 321.453.
   C.   Blue Light: A blue light shall not be used on any vehicle except for
the following:
      1.   A vehicle owned or exclusively operated by a fire department. (2008
Code § 17-423; amd. 2015 Code)
      2.   A vehicle authorized by the chief of the fire department if the
vehicle is owned by a member of the fire department, the request for
authorization is made by the member on forms provided by the state department
of transportation, and necessity for authorization is demonstrated in the
request.
   D.   Expiration Of Authority: The authorization shall expire at twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight on December 31 five (5) years from the year in which
it was issued, or when the vehicle is no longer owned by the member, or when
the member has ceased to be an active member of the fire department or of an
ambulance, rescue, or first responder service, or when the member has used the
blue or white light beyond the scope of its authorized use. A person issued an
authorization under subsection C2 of this section, shall return the
authorization to the fire chief upon expiration or upon a determination by the
fire chief or the state department of transportation that the authorization
should be revoked.
   E.   When Used: The certificate of authorization shall be carried at all
times with the certificate of registration of the authorized vehicle, and the
operator of the vehicle shall not illuminate the blue or white light except in
any of the following circumstances:
      1.   When the member is en route to the scene of a fire or is responding
to an emergency in the line of duty requiring the services of the member.
      2.   When the authorized vehicle is transporting a person requiring
emergency care.
      3.   When the authorized vehicle is at the scene of an emergency.
      4.   The use of the blue or white light in or on a private motor vehicle
shall be for identification purposes only.
   F.   Amber Flashing Light: A farm tractor, farm tractor with towed
equipment, self-propelled implement of husbandry, road construction or
maintenance vehicle, road grader, or other vehicle principally designed for use
off the highway which, when operated on a primary or secondary road, is
operated at a speed of twenty five (25) miles an hour or less, shall be
equipped with and display an amber flashing light visible from the rear at any
time from sunset to sunrise. If the amber flashing light is obstructed by the
towed equipment, the towed equipment shall also be equipped with and display an
amber flashing light as required under this subsection.
   G.   Flashing White Light: Except as provided in Iowa Code section 321.373,
subsection 7, and subsection B3 of this section, a flashing white light shall
only be used on a vehicle in the following circumstances:
      1.   On a vehicle owned or exclusively operated by an ambulance, rescue,
or first responder service.
      2.   On a vehicle authorized by the Iowa director of public health when
all of the following apply:
         a.   The vehicle is owned by a member of an ambulance, rescue, or
first responder service.
         b.   The request for authorization is made by the member on forms
provided by the Iowa department of public health.
         c.   Necessity for authorization is demonstrated in the request.
         d.   The head of an ambulance, rescue, or first responder service
certifies that the member is in good standing and recommends that the
authorization be granted.
      3.   On an authorized emergency vehicle. (2008 Code § 17-423)
6-1-424 - 6-1-429: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-430: BRAKE, HITCH AND CONTROL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Motor Vehicles: Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, or
motorized bicycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle,
including two (2) separate means of applying the brakes, each of which means
shall be effective to apply the brakes to at least two (2) wheels. If these two
(2) separate means of applying the brakes are connected in any way, they shall
be so constructed that failure of any one part of the operating mechanism shall
not leave the motor vehicle without brakes on at least two (2) wheels.
   B.   Motorcycles And Motorized Bicycles: Every motorcycle and motorized
bicycle, when operated upon a highway, shall be equipped with at least one
brake, which may be operated by hand or foot.
   C.   Trailers: Every trailer, semitrailer, or travel trailer of a gross
weight of three thousand (3,000) pounds or more shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle when
operated on the highways of this state. Every trailer, semitrailer, or travel
trailer with a gross weight of three thousand (3,000) pounds or more shall be
equipped with a separate, auxiliary means of applying the brakes on the
trailer, semitrailer, or travel trailer from the cab of the towing vehicle, or
with self- actuating brakes, and shall also be equipped with a weight
equalizing hitch with a sway control. Trailers or semitrailers with a truck or
truck-tractor need only comply with the brake requirements.
   D.   Newer Vehicles; Service Brake Requirements; Exceptions: Except as
otherwise provided in this chapter, every new motor vehicle, trailer, or
semitrailer hereafter sold in this state and operated upon the highways shall
be equipped with service brakes upon all wheels of every such vehicle with the
following exceptions:
      1.   Any motorcycle or motorized bicycle.
      2.   Any trailer or semitrailer of less than three thousand (3,000)
pounds' gross weight need not be equipped with brakes.
      3.   Trucks and truck-tractors equipped with three (3) or more axles and
manufactured before July 25, 1980, need not have brakes on the front wheels,
except that such vehicles equipped with two (2) or more front axles shall be
equipped with brakes on at least one of the axles; however, the service brakes
of the vehicle shall comply with the performance requirements of Iowa Code
section 321.431.
      4.   Only such brakes on the vehicle or vehicles being towed in a
driveaway-towaway operation need be operative as may be necessary to ensure
compliance by the combination of vehicles with the performance requirements of
Iowa Code section 321.431. The term "driveaway-towaway" operation as used in
this subsection means any operation in which any motor vehicle or motor
vehicles, new or used, constitute the commodity being transported, when one set
or more of wheels of any such motor vehicle or motor vehicles are on the
roadway during the course of transportation, whether or not any such motor
vehicle furnishes the motive power. (2008 Code § 17-430; amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-431: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-432: HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES:
   A.   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be equipped with
a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than two hundred feet (200'), but no
horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound or
a whistle.
   B.   The driver of a motor vehicle shall when reasonably necessary to ensure
safe operation give audible warning with the horn but shall not otherwise use
such horn when upon a highway. (2008 Code § 17-432)
6-1-433: SIRENS AND BELLS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle any siren, whistle, or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this
section. It is permissible but not required that any commercial vehicle be
equipped with a theft alarm signal device which is so arranged that it cannot
be used by the driver as an ordinary warning signal. (2008 Code § 17-433; amd.
2015 Code)
   B.   Any authorized emergency vehicle may be equipped with a siren, whistle,
or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than five hundred feet (500') and of a type approved by
the state department of transportation, but such siren shall not be used except
when such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which said
latter events, the driver of such vehicle shall sound said siren when necessary
to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof. (2008 Code § 17-
433)
6-1-434: BICYCLE SIRENS OR WHISTLES:
A bicycle shall not be equipped with and a person shall not use upon a bicycle
any siren or whistle. This section shall not apply to bicycles ridden by peace
officers in the line of duty. (2008 Code § 17-434)
6-1-435: SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS:
   A.   No driver of any motor vehicle shall operate or permit operation of any
sound amplification system which can be heard outside the vehicle from seventy
five feet (75') or more when the vehicle is being operated upon a highway,
unless such system is being operated to request assistance or warn of a
hazardous situation.
   B.   This section does not apply to authorized emergency vehicles. (2008
Code § 17-435)
6-1-436: MUFFLERS, PREVENTION OF NOISE:
Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a muffler in good
working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise
and annoying smoke, and no person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar
device upon a motor vehicle on a highway. (2008 Code § 17-436)
6-1-437: MIRRORS:
   A.   Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a mirror so located as to
reflect to the driver a view of the highway for a distance of at least two
hundred feet (200') to the rear of such vehicle.
   B.   Any motor vehicle so loaded, or towing another vehicle in such manner,
as to obstruct the view in a rearview mirror located in the driver's
compartment shall be equipped with a side mirror so located that the view to
the rear will not be obstructed. (2008 Code § 17-437)
6-1-438: WINDSHIELDS AND WINDOWS:
   A.   A person shall not drive a motor vehicle equipped with a windshield,
sidewings, or side or rear windows which do not permit clear vision.
   B.   A person shall not operate on the highway a motor vehicle equipped with
a front windshield, a side window to the immediate right or left of the driver,
or a sidewing forward of and to the left or right of the driver which is
excessively dark or reflective so that it is difficult for a person outside the
motor vehicle to see into the motor vehicle through the windshield, window, or
sidewing. The state department of transportation shall adopt rules establishing
a minimum measurable standard of transparency which shall apply to violations
of this subsection.
   C.   Every motor vehicle except a motorcycle, or a vehicle included in the
provisions of Iowa Code section 321.383 or 321.115 shall be equipped with a
windshield in accordance with Iowa Code section 321.444. (2008 Code § 17-438)
6-1-439: WINDSHIELD WIPERS:
The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device for
cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield, which device shall
be so constructed as to be controlled or operated by the driver of the vehicle.
(2008 Code § 17-439)
6-1-440: RESTRICTIONS AS TO TIRE EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle shall have rubber on its entire
traction surface at least one inch (1") thick above the edge of the flange of
the entire periphery. Any pneumatic tire on a vehicle shall be considered
unsafe if it has:
      1.   Any part of the ply or cord exposed.
      2.   Any bump, bulge or separation.
      3.   A tread design depth of less than one-sixteenth inch (1/16")
measured in any two (2) or more adjacent tread grooves, exclusive of tie bars
or, for those tires with tread wear indicators, worn to the level of the tread
wear indicators in any two (2) tread grooves.
      4.   A marking "not for highway use", "for racing purposes only", "unsafe
for highway use".
      5.   Tread or sidewall cracks, cuts or snags deep enough to expose the
body cord.
      6.   Such other conditions as may be reasonably demonstrated to render it
unsafe. (2008 Code § 17-440)
      7.   Been regrooved or recut below the original tread design depth,
excepting special tires which have extra under tread rubber and are identified
as such, or if a pneumatic tire was originally designed without grooves or
tread.
   B.   A vehicle, except an implement of husbandry, equipped with either solid
rubber or pneumatic tires shall not be operated where the weight per inch of
tire width is greater than five hundred seventy five (575) pounds per inch of
tire width based on the tire width rating, except on a steering axle, in which
case six hundred (600) pounds per inch of tire width is permitted based on the
tire width rating. (2008 Code § 17-440; amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-441: METAL TIRES PROHIBITED:
No person shall operate or move on a paved highway any motor vehicle, trailer,
or semitrailer having any metal tire or metal track in contact with the
roadway. (2008 Code § 17-441)
6-1-442: PROJECTIONS ON WHEELS:
No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery any block,
stud, flange, cleat, or spike or any other protuberances of any material other
than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire
except that it shall be permissible to use:
   A.   Farm machinery with tires having protuberances which will not injure
the highway.
   B.   Tire chains of reasonable proportions upon any vehicle when required
for safety because of snow, ice, or other conditions tending to cause a vehicle
to skid.
   C.   Pneumatic tires with inserted ice grips or tire studs projecting not
more than one-sixteenth inch (1/16") beyond the tread of the traction surface
of the tire upon any vehicle from November 1 of each year to April 1 of the
following year, except that a school bus and fire department emergency
apparatus may use such tires at any time. (2008 Code § 17-442)
6-1-443: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-444: SAFETY GLASS:
   A.   Definition: "Safety glass" means any product composed of glass, so
manufactured, fabricated or treated as substantially to prevent shattering and
flying of glass when struck or broken. Safety glass and glazing materials shall
comply with federal motor vehicle safety standard number 205 as published in 49
CFR section 571.205.
   B.   Requirement: No person shall sell any new motor vehicle nor shall any
motor vehicle, manufactured since July 1, 1935, be registered or operated
unless such vehicle is equipped with safety glass wherever glass is used in
doors, windows, and windshields. Replacements of glass in doors, windows, or
windshields shall be of safety glass. (2008 Code § 17-444; amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-445: SAFETY BELTS AND SAFETY HARNESSES; USE REQUIRED:
   A.   Vehicle Requirements: Except for motorcycles or motorized bicycles,
1966 model year or newer motor vehicles shall be equipped with safety belts and
safety harnesses which conform with federal motor vehicle safety standard
numbers 209 and 210 as published in 49 CFR section 571.209 - 571.210 and with
prior federal motor vehicle safety standards for seat belt assemblies and seat
belt assembly anchorages applicable for the motor vehicle's model year. (2008
Code § 17-445)
   B.   Use Required; Exceptions:
      1.   The driver and front seat occupants of a type of motor vehicle,
except a motorcycle or a motorized bicycle, shall each wear a properly adjusted
and fastened safety belt or safety harness any time the vehicle is in forward
motion on a street or highway, except that a child under eighteen (18) years of
age shall be secured as required under section
6-1-446 of this chapter. (2008 Code § 17-445; amd. 2015 Code)
      2.   This subsection B does not apply to:
         a.   The driver or front seat occupants of a motor vehicle which is
not required to be equipped with safety belts or safety harnesses under rules
adopted by the department.
         b.   The driver and front seat occupants of a motor vehicle who are
actively engaged in work which requires them to alight from and reenter the
vehicle at frequent intervals, provided the vehicle does not exceed twenty five
(25) miles per hour between stops.
         c.   The driver of a motor vehicle while performing duties as a rural
letter carrier for the United States postal service. This exemption applies
only between the first delivery point after leaving the post office and the
last delivery point before returning to the post office.
         d.   Passengers on a bus.
         e.   A person possessing a written certification from a physician on a
form provided by the state department of transportation that the person is
unable to wear a safety belt or safety harness due to physical or medical
reasons.
         f.   Front seat occupants of an authorized emergency vehicle while
they are being transported in an emergency. However, this exemption does not
apply to the driver of the authorized emergency vehicle.
   C.   Charges For Noncompliance: The driver and front seat passengers may be
each charged separately for improperly used or nonused equipment under
subsection B of this section. The owner of the motor vehicle may be charged for
equipment violations under subsection A of this section. (2008 Code § 17-445)
6-1-446: CHILD RESTRAINT DEVICES:
   A.   Definition: For purposes of this section, "child restraint system"
means a specially designed seating system, including a belt positioning seat or
a booster seat, that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards set forth in
49 CFR section 571.213.
   B.   Securing Of Child Required:
      1.   A child under one year of age and weighing less than twenty (20)
pounds who is being transported in a motor vehicle subject to registration,
except a school bus or motorcycle, shall be secured during transit in a rear
facing child restraint system that is used in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions.
      2.   A child under six (6) years of age who does not meet the description
in subsection B1 of this section and who is being transported in a motor
vehicle subject to registration, except a school bus or motorcycle, shall be
secured during transit by a child restraint system that is used in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions.
      3.   A child at least six (6) years of age but under eighteen (18) years
of age who is being transported in a motor vehicle subject to registration,
except a school bus or motorcycle, shall be secured during transit by a child
restraint system that is used in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions or by a safety belt or safety harness of a type approved under
Iowa Code section 321.445.
   C.   Exceptions: This section does not apply to the following:
      1.   Peace officers acting on official duty.
      2.   The transportation of children in 1965 model year or older vehicles,
authorized emergency vehicles, buses, or motor homes, except when a child is
transported in a motor home's passenger seat situated directly to the driver's
right.
      3.   The transportation of a child who has been certified by a physician
licensed under Iowa Code chapter 148 as having a medical, physical, or mental
condition that prevents or makes inadvisable securing the child in a child
restraint system, safety belt, or safety harness.
      4.   A back seat occupant of a motor vehicle for whom no safety belt is
available because all safety belts are being used by other occupants or cannot
be used due to the use of a child restraint system in the seating position for
which a belt is provided.
   D.   Violations; Penalties: A person who violates this section is guilty of
a simple misdemeanor punishable as a scheduled violation under Iowa Code
section 805.8A, subsection 14, paragraph c. Violations shall be charged as
follows:
      1.   An operator who transports a passenger under fourteen (14) years of
age in violation of subsection B1, B2 or B3 of this section may be charged with
a violation of this section.
      2.   If a passenger fourteen (14) years of age or older is unable to
properly fasten a seat belt due to a temporary or permanent disability, an
operator who transports such a person in violation of subsection B3 of this
section may be charged with a violation of this section. Otherwise, a passenger
fourteen (14) years of age or older who violates subsection B3 of this section
shall be charged in lieu of the operator.
      3.   If a child under fourteen (14) years of age, or a child fourteen
(14) years of age or older who is unable to fasten a seat belt due to a
temporary or permanent disability, is being transported in a taxicab in a
manner that is not in compliance with subsection B1, B2 or B3 of this section,
the parent, legal guardian, or other responsible adult traveling with the child
shall be served with a citation for a violation of this section in lieu of the
taxicab operator. Otherwise, if a passenger being transported in the taxicab is
fourteen (14) years of age or older, the citation shall be served on the
passenger in lieu of the taxicab operator.
   E.   Proof Of Purchase Of Child Restraint System: A person who is first
charged for a violation of subsection B1 or B2 of this section and who has not
purchased or otherwise acquired a child restraint system shall not be convicted
if the person produces in court, within a reasonable time, proof that the
person has purchased or otherwise acquired a child restraint system which meets
federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   F.   Court Action: Failure to use a child restraint system, safety belts, or
safety harnesses as required by this section does not constitute negligence nor
is the failure admissible as evidence in a civil action. (2008 Code § 17-446;
amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-447 - 6-1-454: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-455: PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES:
   A.   No passenger type vehicle shall be operated on any highway with any
load carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side
of such vehicle nor extending more than six inches (6") beyond the line of the
fenders on the right side thereof.
   B.   Passengers shall not ride on any part of any vehicle unless it is
expressly designed either for passenger use or designed for carrying livestock,
merchandise, or freight. (2008 Code § 17-455)
6-1-456 - 6-1-457: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-458: LOADING BEYOND FRONT:
The load upon any vehicle operated alone, or the load upon the front vehicle of
a combination of vehicles, shall not extend more than three feet (3') beyond
the front wheels of such vehicle or the front bumper of such vehicle if it is
equipped with such a bumper. (2008 Code § 17-458)
6-1-459: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-460: SPILLING LOADS ON HIGHWAYS:
   A.   A vehicle shall not be driven or moved on any highway by any person
unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded or the load securely covered as
to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise
escaping or its load covering from dropping from the vehicle, except that sand
may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substance may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining such
roadway.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to vehicles loaded with
hay or stover or the products listed in Iowa Code section 321.466, subsections
4 and 5. (2008 Code § 17-460)
6-1-461: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-462: DRAWBARS AND SAFETY CHAINS:
   A.   When one vehicle is towing or pulling another vehicle, the drawbar or
other connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all weight towed
thereby and shall be fastened to the frame of the towing vehicle in such manner
as to prevent side sway, and, in addition to such principal connection, there
shall be a safety chain which shall be so fastened as to be capable of holding
the towed vehicle should the principal connection for any reason fail.
   B.   These requirements do not apply in the case of the temporary movement
of a disabled vehicle in an emergency situation. (2008 Code § 17-462)
6-1-463 - 6-1-470: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-471: LOAD LIMITS ON CERTAIN BRIDGES:
Traffic on the following described bridges shall be limited by weight as
indicated. Signs designating the limit shall be erected on each approach of the
bridge so limited:
Devils Glen Road over Spencer Creek: Five (5) tons' gross vehicle weight.
Indiana Avenue over Spencer Creek tributary: Straight truck, twenty two (22)
tons; truck-tractor with semitrailer, thirty three (33) tons; truck with full
trailer, forty (40) tons.
Tanglewood Road over Crow Creek: Single lane bridge, speed limit five (5) miles
per hour, 8.5 tons' gross vehicle weight.
(2008 Code § 17-471; amd. Ord. 04-13, 3-19-2013)
6-1-472: RESERVED:
(2008 Code)
6-1-473: TRUCK ROUTES ESTABLISHED; VEHICLES REQUIRED TO CONFORM; PERMIT FOR
EXCEPTIONS; WEIGHING VEHICLES; SIGNS:
   A.   Routes Designated: The following truck routes are hereby designated for
trucks or commercial vehicles having a gross weight on any one axle of a
vehicle or of a combination of axles, exceeding six thousand (6,000) pounds:
Calvert Street from 13th Street to 14th Street.
Depot Street from 28th Street to 31st Street.
Elm Street from 35th Street to 42nd Street.
Gilbert Street from 12th Street to 16th Street.
Grant Street from 26th Street to South Grant Street.
Interstate Highway 74 from the south city limits to the north city limits.
Interstate Highway 80 from the west city limits to the east city limits.
Kimberly Road from Mississippi Boulevard to the west city limits.
Middle Road from Kimberly Road to Interstate Highway 74.
River Drive from the west city limits to 8th Street.
South Grant Street from Grant Street to 6th Street.
Spruce Hills Drive from the west city limits to Utica Ridge Road.
State Street from 8th Street to the east city limits.
Utica Ridge Road from Spruce Hills Drive to Crow Creek Road.
12th Street from State Street to the Mississippi River.
13th Street from Mississippi Boulevard to State Street.
14th Street from State Street to Calvert Street.
16th Street from Gilbert Street to State Street.
23rd Street from two hundred ninety six feet (296') south of State Street to
Grant Street.
26th Street from State Street to the railroad right of way.
31st Street from Depot Street to State Street.
33rd Street from State Street south one thousand three hundred feet (1,300').
35th Street from Elm Street to State Street.
42nd Street from Elm Street to State Street.
   B.   Gross Weight: The gross weight on any one (1) axle of a vehicle or of a
combination of axles operated on any street in the City other than the
designated truck routes in the City, except when actually making a bona fide
delivery or pick up in the City, shall not exceed six thousand (6,000) pounds.
   C.   Signs Posted: Signs shall be posted along the truck routes showing the
direction thereof and the type of trucks prohibited from using other streets of
the City.
   D.   Special Permit:
      1.   Any driver or owner of any truck or commercial vehicle having a
gross weight on any one (1) axle of a vehicle or of a combination of axles,
exceeding six thousand (6,000) pounds desiring to travel any street other than
a designated truck route may make written application therefor to the City
Engineer for a special permit to travel on said streets.
      2.   The application shall set forth the reason for not using the
designated truck routes; the special permit may be issued by the City Engineer
at his discretion under such terms and conditions as he shall impose.
      3.   If the applicant is dissatisfied with the decision of the City
Engineer, he may, within fifteen (15) days, appeal from the decision of the
City Engineer to the City Council.
   E.   Weighing At Request Of Peace Officer: Any peace officer of the City
observing a truck or commercial vehicle on a street other than the designated
truck route and having reason to believe that the weight of a vehicle and load
is unlawful as provided by this section, is authorized to require the driver to
stop and submit to a weighing of the same either by means of portable or
stationary scales, or may require that the vehicle be driven to the nearest
public scale.
   F.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to fire apparatus, road
machinery used in the construction of City or State roads or highways within
the City, school buses or passenger buses, or to any vehicle operating under
the terms of a special permit issued by the City Engineer.
   G.   Length And Weight Of Motor Vehicles:
      1.   The total length and weight of any motor vehicle or any combination
of vehicles shall not exceed that allowed by the statutes of the State of Iowa,
except as hereinafter provided.
      2.   A motor vehicle or combination of vehicles being operated on a
particular interstate trip may be operated upon the streets or highways within
the City, irrespective of the length and weight limitations imposed by the laws
of the State of Iowa, if the length and weight of the motor vehicle or
combination of vehicles is in conformity with the laws relating to such length
and weight of the State of Illinois on July 1, 1974; provided, however, that
such motor vehicles or combination of vehicles are limited to those streets or
highways which are of the same type on which the motor vehicles or combination
of vehicles are permitted to operate within the State of Illinois; and provided
further, that the operation of such motor vehicles or combination of vehicles
within the City is limited to commercial zones as described in Federal
Regulations, paragraphs 1048.10, 1048.38 and 1048.101 as they existed on July
1, 1974; and providing further, that any motor vehicle operating under this
section shall be required to operate on the truck route as listed in this
section. (2008 Code § 17-473)
6-1-474 - 6-1-483: RESERVED:
(Ord. 04-17, 4-18-2017)
6-1-484: OFFENSES BY OWNERS:
   A.   It is unlawful for the owner, or any other person, employing or
otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle to require or knowingly to permit
the operation of such vehicle upon a highway in any manner contrary to law.
   B.   The owner of a vehicle shall not be held responsible for a violation of
a provision regulating the stopping, standing, or parking of a vehicle, whether
the provision is contained in Iowa Code chapter 321 or chapter 321L, or an
ordinance or other regulation or rule, if the owner establishes that at the
time of the violation the vehicle was in the custody of an identified person
other than the owner pursuant to a lease as defined in Iowa Code chapter 321F
or pursuant to a rental agreement as defined in Iowa Code section 516D.3. The
furnishing to the City Attorney where the charge is pending of a copy of the
lease prescribed by Iowa Code section 321F.6 or rental agreement that was in
effect for the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation shall be prima
facie evidence that the vehicle was in the custody of an identified person
other than the owner within the meaning of this subsection. Upon receipt of
such evidence, the appropriate authority shall dismiss as against the owner of
the vehicle any citation issued for a violation within the meaning of this
subsection that occurred while the vehicle was in the custody of the identified
person.
   C.   If a peace officer as defined in Iowa Code section 801.4 has reasonable
cause to believe the driver of a motor vehicle has violated Iowa Code section
321.261, 321.262, 321.264, 321.341, 321.342, 321.343, 321.344, or 321.372, the
officer may request any owner of the motor vehicle to supply information
identifying the driver. When requested, the owner of the vehicle shall identify
the driver to the best of the owner's ability. However, the owner of the
vehicle is not required to supply identification information to the officer if
the owner believes the information is self-incriminating.
   D.   A person who violates this section commits a simple misdemeanor. (Ord.
04-17, 4-18-2017)
CHAPTER 2
BICYCLES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Application For License; Registration Fee
6-2-2: Following Emergency Vehicles
6-2-3: Number Of Passengers
6-2-4: Acts Constituting Improper Operation
6-2-5: Riding On Sidewalks
6-2-6: Riding On Roadways And Bicycle Paths
6-2-7: Pushing A Bicycle
6-2-8: Parking
6-2-9: Penalties
6-2-1: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; REGISTRATION FEE:
   A.   Application; Contents; Form:
      1.   The owner of a bicycle may license such vehicle; and if the owner
chooses to do so, the applicant shall file in the office of the city clerk an
application therefor which shall state the name of the owner, the make or trade
name and the manufacturer's serial number of the bicycle. The application shall
be in the form prescribed by the city clerk's office and furnished in his
office.
      2.   The city clerk's office shall not be required to assist in the
filling out of any application but may furnish application forms to any person
willing to assist in the distribution thereof in order that applicants may more
conveniently secure each registration.
   B.   Registration Fee: A registration fee of one dollar ($1.00) shall be
paid at the time of application.
   C.   Serial Number Defaced; Issuance Of Number By Police: If the
manufacturer's serial number of any bicycle is defaced or illegible, the police
department shall, on the request of the owner, stamp the bicycle with a
permanent distinctive number, which number shall be stated on the application
in lieu of the manufacturer's serial number. (2008 Code § 6-16)
   D.   Issuance Of License Sticker; Display:
      1.   Upon the filing of an application for registration and licensing,
and payment of the fee, the city clerk's office shall issue a license sticker
bearing a distinctive license number, which number shall be recorded on the
application.
      2.   The license sticker shall thereafter be kept securely and
conspicuously attached to the frame of the bicycle. (2008 Code § 6-17)
6-2-2: FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
No person riding a bicycle shall follow within five hundred feet (500') of any
emergency vehicle when such vehicle is flashing its emergency lights, operating
a siren or both. No person shall ride or park a bicycle within one hundred feet
(100') of the place where an emergency apparatus has stopped in response to an
emergency call. (2008 Code § 6-2)
6-2-3: NUMBER OF PASSENGERS:
No number of passengers in excess of that number for which a bicycle was
designed shall, at any time, ride that bicycle. (2008 Code § 6-3)
6-2-4: ACTS CONSTITUTING IMPROPER OPERATION:
The following shall not be allowed while operating a bicycle on city streets,
alleys, or sidewalks:
   A.   Operating in a zigzagging manner on city streets or alleys.
   B.   Weaving in and out of traffic.
   C.   Riding at such a speed that the rider will not be able to bring the
bicycle to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.
   D.   Being towed by or towing any other vehicle except a trailer
specifically designed to be towed behind a bicycle. (2008 Code § 6-4)
6-2-5: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
   A.   The council may erect signs on any sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the
riding of bicycles thereon by any person and when such signs are in place, no
person shall disobey them.
   B.   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person
shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian. (2008 Code § 6-5)
6-2-6: RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS:
   A.   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable exercising due care when passing
the standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   B.   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall ride single file except
upon paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
(2008 Code § 6-8; amd. 2015 Code)
6-2-7: PUSHING A BICYCLE:
Any person pushing a bicycle is subject to the laws governing pedestrians.
(2008 Code § 6-7)
6-2-8: PARKING:
No person shall park a bicycle in such a manner as to obstruct pedestrian or
vehicular traffic. (2008 Code § 6-9)
6-2-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   For violations by bicyclists under section
6-2-8, "Parking", of this chapter, the scheduled fine is five dollars ($5.00).
(2008 Code § 6-11)
   B.   For violations by bicyclists, or persons riding animals or animal drawn
vehicles, of section
6-2-2, "Following Emergency Vehicles",
6-2-3, "Number Of Passengers",
6-2-4, "Acts Constituting Improper Operation",
6-2-5, "Riding In Sidewalks", or
6-2-6, "Riding On Roadways And Bicycle Paths", of this chapter, the scheduled
fine is ten dollars ($10.00). (2008 Code § 6-11; amd. 2015 Code)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Reserved
7-1-2: Street Improvements; Permit; Conformance Required
7-1-3: Occupational Use Of Public Grounds; Permit; Bond
7-1-4: Storage Of Vehicles On City Streets
7-1-5: Abutting Property Owner Maintenance Duties
7-1-6: City Performance Of Work; Costs; Assessment
7-1-7: Repair Of Sidewalks By Property Owner Or City
7-1-8: Mailboxes And Newspaper Receptacles
7-1-9: Dumping Of Material At Recycling Centers
7-1-10: Removal Of Snow And Ice From Sidewalks
7-1-11: Obstructing Streets And Sidewalks
7-1-12: Sales Stands; Merchandise
7-1-13: Awnings; Standards And Specifications
7-1-14: Encroaching Stairs Or Steps
7-1-15: Openings And Enclosures
7-1-16: Removing Or Avoiding Barricades
7-1-17: Removal Of Materials From Public Ways And Grounds
7-1-18: Fires On Pavement Prohibited
7-1-19: Erection Of Posts
7-1-20: Rainwater Disposal
7-1-21: Barbed Wire
7-1-22: Planting Shrubbery On Parkings
7-1-23: Defacing Public Ways And Places
7-1-24: Dangerous Objects; Refuse
7-1-25: Fuel On Streets Or Sidewalks
7-1-26: Cleaning Of Streets And Sidewalks
7-1-27: Littering Of Streets And Other Public Places
7-1-28: Snow And Water From Roofs
7-1-29: Building Materials In Street; Permit
7-1-30: Equipment, Facilities On Streets
7-1-1: RESERVED:
7-1-2: STREET IMPROVEMENTS; PERMIT; CONFORMANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to grade any street or to construct any sidewalk, curbing
or other street improvement without first obtaining a permit from the city
council, and the work shall be done in accordance with the plans, rules and
specifications adopted by the council and on file in the office of the clerk.
(2008 Code § 27-10)
7-1-3: OCCUPATIONAL USE OF PUBLIC GROUNDS; PERMIT; BOND:
   A.   Permit Issuance; Conditions: The director of public works shall issue
all permits for the use of streets and public grounds for the storage of
materials or the use of the same by private firms or individuals, and shall
prescribe, with the chief of police, the adequate use of barricades, lights or
flares which are necessary by law for proper protection of the public during
the life of the street or public property, occupation or obstruction.
   B.   Bond; Liability For Damages: A bond shall be required before issuance
of a permit for the use of a public place and the bond, among other
requirements, shall be conditioned to keep the barriers or lights properly
placed and lighted during the extent of the use of the street and to pay the
city any sum which the city may pay or have the expense of because of damages
growing out of the occupation of the street or public property and improper
maintenance of barricades, protections, flare lanterns or lights by the obligor
of said bond or his agents or employees. (2008 Code § 27-18)
7-1-4: STORAGE OF VEHICLES ON CITY STREETS:
   A.   Definition: "Storage" shall be defined as either of the following:
      1.   Leaving a motor vehicle (whether licensed or not) on city streets on
a regular (daily) and continual (for periods of time of not less than 15 hours)
basis.
      2.   Leaving a motor vehicle (whether licensed or not) on city streets,
moving such vehicle only to comply with the criminal requirements of section
6-1-133 of this code.
   B.   Prohibition: In any zoning district where open storage of material is
not allowed, no person shall use the city street or right of way for storage of
vehicles. (2008 Code § 27-35)
7-1-5: ABUTTING PROPERTY OWNER MAINTENANCE DUTIES:
   A.   Maintenance Required: The owner of property abutting a public street or
streets shall maintain all property outside the lot and property lines and
inside the curb lines upon such public street or streets, except that the
property owner shall not be required to remove diseased or dead wood.
   B.   Serving Order For Maintenance: If the director of public works finds
that any such maintenance work is necessary, the director shall serve a written
order on the owner of the abutting property specifying therein the work
necessary to be done. The order may be served by either:
      1.   Making personal service of the order on the owner as permitted by
Iowa rules of civil procedure (IRCP) 56. The person making the service shall
make a return of personal service which shall state the time, manner and place
of service, and the name of the person to whom a copy of the order was
delivered; or
      2.   Mailing a copy of the order by certified mail to the property owner
as shown by the records of the Scott County auditor.
   C.   Time Limit: The order required by this section shall set forth a
reasonable time limit for compliance.
   D.   Right To Appeal: Any property owner to whom an order pursuant to this
section is directed shall have the right, within forty eight (48) hours from
service of the order, to appeal to the mayor who shall review the order within
five (5) days and file his decision thereon. Unless the order is revoked or
modified, it shall remain in full force and be obeyed by the property owner as
directed, with the time for compliance to commence at the time of the mayor's
decision. (2008 Code § 27-20)
7-1-6: CITY PERFORMANCE OF WORK; COSTS; ASSESSMENT:
   A.   Failure Of Owner To Comply; Abatement By City: When a property owner to
whom an order issued pursuant to section
7-1-5 of this chapter is directed, fails to comply within the time specified,
the director of public works shall remedy the condition, or contract with
others for such purpose, and charge the cost thereof to the person to whom the
order is directed.
   B.   Failure To Pay Costs; Assessment Against Property: If the cost of
remedying a condition is not paid within thirty (30) days after the mailing of
a statement therefor from the director of public works, the cost shall be
assessed against the abutting property for collection in the same manner as a
property tax. (2008 Code § 27-21)
7-1-7: REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS BY PROPERTY OWNER OR CITY:
The city may require the abutting property owner to repair, replace or
reconstruct sidewalks; but in the event that such work is not completed within
thirty (30) days of the date of deposit in the mail of notice to the property
owner as shown in the records of the county auditor, by certified mail, then
the council may cause such work to be done and assess the expense thereof on
the property in front of which such work is done, and the same shall be
certified and collected as other taxes. If the cost exceeds two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00), the same may be certified for payment in three (3) equal
annual installments with interest from the date of certification on each
installment until paid, at the maximum interest rate allowed by law, and shall
be collected as other taxes with the September semiannual payment thereof.
(2008 Code § 27-44)
7-1-8: MAILBOXES AND NEWSPAPER RECEPTACLES:
   A.   Installation Requirements: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain a
mailbox or newspaper receptacle on public grounds between the curb line or
shoulder and the sidewalk or, where no sidewalk exists, property line, except
in conformance with the following requirements:
      1.   Mailbox And Newspaper Receptacles: The location and height of a
mailbox or newspaper receptacle shall be constructed in conformance with the
requirements of postal regulation, section 156.5, as adopted by the United
States postal service.
      2.   Supporting Structure: The mailbox or newspaper receptacle supporting
structure shall be adequate to properly mount the box and shall be constructed
of:
         a.   Wood no larger than four inches by four inches (4" x 4") square
or a four and one-half inch (41/2") round post.
         b.   Metal pipe or conduit having inside diameter of no more than one
and one-half inches (11/2") or a metal post weighing no more than two (2)
pounds per foot.
   B.   Effective Date: This section shall apply to all mailboxes or newspaper
receptacles constructed or reconstructed after the effective date hereof 1 .
(2008 Code § 27-22)
 
Notes
1 1. This section derived from ordinance 3-85, adopted February 5, 1985.
7-1-9: DUMPING OF MATERIAL AT RECYCLING CENTERS:
No person shall deposit or leave any material, whether recyclable or not,
within the confines or adjacent to any city sponsored recycling location when
such location is not open and accepting such material. (2008 Code § 27-34)
7-1-10: REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE FROM SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Removal Required: No owner, tenant, responsible party or person in
possession or control of property shall allow snow or ice accumulations to
remain upon abutting sidewalks for more than forty eight (48) hours from the
end of a winter weather event.
   B.   Removal By City: Snow or ice accumulations which have remained on any
sidewalk for more than forty eight (48) hours may be removed by the city. If
the property owner fails to pay the costs of such removal, including a seventy
five dollar ($75.00) administrative fee, the city may assess the costs against
the property in the same manner as a property tax, as provided by Iowa law.
   C.   Notice To Owners: Notice to the owner or person in control of lands
subject to this chapter shall be as follows: The director of community
development shall cause to be published on or about November 1 of each year in
a newspaper of general circulation within the city a notice stating that work
of snow and ice removal is required to be done during the months of November
through March, inclusive, and a statement that property owners have forty eight
(48) hours within which such owners may cause the work to be done. Further, the
notice shall state that failure to comply after publication of the notice will
result in the work being done by the city, and the costs incurred by the city,
including a seventy five dollar ($75.00) administrative fee, shall be assessed
against the property in the manner provided by law. No further notice shall be
required. (Ord. 22-16, 11-1-2016)
7-1-11: OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Obstructions; Gates: Except as provided in section
6-1-128 of this code, it shall be unlawful to obstruct, or cause or allow to be
obstructed any street, alley, or sidewalk, or to erect or hang any gate so it
opens outward over any street, alley or sidewalk. (2008 Code § 27-1)
   B.   Depositing Substances Prohibited; Exception: It shall be unlawful to
place or deposit on any sidewalk, street or public ground, any substance, thing
or material. This subsection shall not apply to the receipt or delivery of any
merchandise on a sidewalk which does not occupy more than one-third (1/3) of
the width of a sidewalk and is not permitted to remain upon the sidewalk for
more than twenty four (24) consecutive hours. (2008 Code § 27-1; amd. 2015
Code)
7-1-12: SALES STANDS; MERCHANDISE:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to erect or keep any stand for
the sale of fruit, vegetables, or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk, street or alley, or to use or occupy any vehicle for the sale
therefrom of any article on any street or alley without first obtaining a
written permit therefor from the mayor.
   B.   Interruption Of Pedestrians: It shall be unlawful to place upon or
above any sidewalk, any goods or merchandise for sale or for display in such a
manner as to interfere with the free and uninterrupted passage on the sidewalk
of pedestrians. In no case shall more than two feet (2') of the sidewalk next
to the building be occupied for such purposes. (2008 Code § 27-3)
7-1-13: AWNINGS; STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any awning over any street or
sidewalk unless all parts of the awning are elevated at least seven feet (7')
above the surface of the street or sidewalk and the roof or covering is made of
duck, canvas or other suitable material supported by iron frames or brackets
securely fastened to the building, without any posts or other device that will
obstruct the street or sidewalk or hinder or interfere with the free passage of
pedestrians or vehicles. (2008 Code § 27-4)
7-1-14: ENCROACHING STAIRS OR STEPS:
It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to the first or
second floor of any building upon any part of any sidewalk, street or alley,
without permission by resolution of the city council. (2008 Code § 27-5)
7-1-15: OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES:
   A.   Council Permission Required: It shall be unlawful to construct or build
a stairway or passageway to any cellar or basement by occupying any part of the
sidewalk, street or alley, or to enclose any portion of a street, sidewalk or
alley with a railing, without permission by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Openings Guarded:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to keep open any cellar door, grating, or cover
to any vault on any sidewalk, street, or alley, except while in actual use,
with adequate guards to protect the public.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to neglect to properly protect or guard all
openings on or within six feet (6') of any street, alley or sidewalk. (2008
Code § 27-6)
7-1-16: REMOVING OR AVOIDING BARRICADES:
It shall be unlawful to knock down, remove or destroy any barricade erected on
any street, alley or public place by the authority of the city, or to drive on
or over any curb or parking to pass around such a barricade. (2008 Code § 27-7)
7-1-17: REMOVAL OF MATERIALS FROM PUBLIC WAYS AND GROUNDS:
It shall be unlawful to remove or cause to be removed any dirt, sand, stone,
rock, tree, shrub, plank, sidewalk, or fence from any street, alley, lot, or
ground belonging to the city, without authority from the city council. (2008
Code § 27-8)
7-1-18: FIRES ON PAVEMENT PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to make a fire of any kind on any pavement or sidewalk.
(2008 Code § 27-9)
7-1-19: ERECTION OF POSTS:
It shall be unlawful to erect, maintain, or to cause or allow to be erected or
maintained, any signpost or other post or pole for any purpose on any sidewalk,
street or alley, except by permission by resolution of the city council. (2008
Code § 27-11)
7-1-20: RAINWATER DISPOSAL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit any waterspout, trough,
gutter or balcony extending from any building owned or leased by him to
discharge or conduct water upon the surface of any sidewalk. All such water
shall be conducted under the sidewalk in accordance with plans and
specifications of the city engineer and under his direction. (2008 Code § 27-
12; amd. 2015 Code)
7-1-21: BARBED WIRE:
   A.   Areas Zoned Agricultural: It shall be unlawful to place or maintain any
barbed wire fronting on or adjacent to any street, alley or sidewalk except in
those areas zoned for agricultural purposes, or as permitted herein.
   B.   Commercial And Industrial Purposes: In areas zoned for commercial and
industrial purposes, barbed wire may be placed more than six feet (6') above
the ground when placed in conjunction with a woven wire security fence. (2008
Code § 27-13)
7-1-22: PLANTING SHRUBBERY ON PARKINGS:
It shall be unlawful to plant or maintain shrubbery on any parking or between
the sidewalk and the curb line of any street. (2008 Code § 27-14)
7-1-23: DEFACING PUBLIC WAYS AND PLACES:
It shall be unlawful to scatter or place any paste, paint or writing on any
sidewalk, street or public place. (2008 Code § 27-15)
7-1-24: DANGEROUS OBJECTS; REFUSE:
It shall be unlawful to throw, place or deposit any glass, nails or other sharp
substances, ashes, cinders, straw, paper, sweepings, brush, weeds, spoiled
fruit or vegetables, refuse, or rubbish of any kind, upon any sidewalk, street,
alley, gutter, drain, or public ground. (2008 Code § 27-16)
7-1-25: FUEL ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful to place or allow any fuel to remain upon any street,
alley, or sidewalk. (2008 Code § 27-17)
7-1-26: CLEANING OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Transporting Dirt Or Fill: When construction activity requires
transport of earthmoving equipment or dirt or fill across city streets and
sidewalks, no dirt shall be allowed to remain on streets or sidewalks as a
result of such movement.
   B.   Removal Of Dirt; Responsibility: When dirt or other material is left on
sidewalks or streets as a result of activities as described in subsection A of
this section, the dirt or other material shall be immediately removed by the
person actually placing the dirt on city streets or sidewalks, by the employer
of such a person, by the general contractor at the site of the construction
activity, and/or by the owner of the property being developed. The
responsibility affixed by this section shall be joint and several to the
parties listed.
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Failure to clean up shall subject the parties to
the municipal infraction penalties of this code. (2008 Code § 27-23)
7-1-27: LITTERING OF STREETS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, directly or
indirectly, through employees, agents or subcontractors to store, cast,
deposit, strew, scatter or lay or cause or allow to be stored, cast, laid,
deposited, strewn or scattered, any shavings, ashes, mud, garbage, dung,
rubbish, dirt, earth, stone, crushed rock, gravel, cement, plaster, cement or
lime mixtures, coal, wood, glass, metal, snow, ice, leaves or other debris,
filth or refuse matter on any of the streets, lanes, alleys or other public
property in the city, without having obtained prior approval in writing for
such from the department of public works. Each day that any of the above
substances are allowed to remain on public property shall constitute a separate
offense. (2008 Code § 27-30)
7-1-28: SNOW AND WATER FROM ROOFS:
It shall be unlawful to cause or permit any snow or water from any roof to be
thrown or placed upon any street. (2008 Code § 27-31)
7-1-29: BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREET; PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to place or deposit any building
material in any street without a written permit from the community development
director, subject to revocation by the council, to use part of the street in
front of or adjacent to the lot whereon a building is being erected, for
depositing thereon the material for the building.
   B.   Obstructing Gutters Prohibited: All material shall be placed in such a
manner as not to obstruct the gutters.
   C.   Guarding Obstruction: The person occupying a portion of a street
subject to this section shall at all times enclose or guard the same in such a
manner as to protect the public. Lighted barricades shall be placed thereon and
kept burning at night. (2008 Code § 27-32; amd. 2015 Code)
7-1-30: EQUIPMENT, FACILITIES ON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful to erect, maintain, or to cause or allow to be erected or
maintained on any street, any air line, air service pipe or hose, air pump,
water hydrant or water service of any kind except water hydrants belonging to
the city. (2008 Code § 27-33)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permanent And Temporary Sidewalks; Procedure
7-2-2: Resolution; Construction By Owner Or City
7-2-3: Failure Of Property Owner To Construct
7-2-4: Approaches And Curb Cuts; Access Permit
7-2-5: Sidewalk Improvements
7-2-6: Construction Standards And Specifications
7-2-7: Contractors, Bond
7-2-8: Sidewalk Repairs
7-2-1: PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY SIDEWALKS; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Permanent Sidewalks:
      1.   The city council may by resolution order the construction or
reconstruction of permanent sidewalks upon any street, but the construction of
a permanent sidewalk shall not be made until the bed of the permanent sidewalk
has been graded so that, when completed, the sidewalk will be at the
established grade.
      2.   Unless the owners of a majority of the linear feet of property
fronting on the improvement petition the council therefor, the improvement
shall not be made unless three- fourths (3/4) of all members of the council by
vote order the improvement. (2008 Code § 27-52)
   B.   Temporary Sidewalks:
      1.   The city council may by resolution order the construction or
reconstruction of temporary sidewalks upon any street or court which has not
been brought to the established grade, and may assess the cost thereof against
the property in front of which the sidewalk is laid.
      2.   No temporary sidewalk shall be ordered except by a vote of three-
fourths (3/4) of the members of the council. (2008 Code § 27-53)
7-2-2: RESOLUTION; CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER OR CITY:
   A.   Notice To Property Owners: After the city council adopts a resolution
of necessity to construct sidewalks, notice shall be sent by certified mail to
property owners advising them that they have a minimum of thirty (30) days
after the adoption of said resolution of necessity to construct the walks.
   B.   Noncompliance By Owner; Construction By City; Assessment Of Costs:
Unless said sidewalks are constructed within the time specified, the council
shall cause such sidewalks to be constructed, and the cost and expense thereof
assessed against the adjoining or abutting lots or parcels of ground. (2008
Code § 27-54)
7-2-3: FAILURE OF PROPERTY OWNER TO CONSTRUCT:
If the owner of any lot or parcel of ground in front of which a sidewalk is
constructed or reconstructed fails to construct or reconstruct the sidewalk
within the time prescribed by the resolution ordering the improvement, the
council shall cause the improvement to be made, and the costs and expense
thereof shall be assessed against the lots or parcels of ground adjoining the
improvement. (2008 Code § 27-56)
7-2-4: APPROACHES AND CURB CUTS; ACCESS PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required; Specifications:
      1.   No person or owner of property shall construct any sidewalk or
driveway approach or make any curb cut on a public street without first
obtaining a permit.
      2.   A driveway approach to a single-family residential lot shall be the
same width of the applicant's driveway at the point of connection up to, but
not to exceed, twenty feet (20'), except where applicant has a three (3) car
garage, in which case a driveway approach shall be the same width of the
applicant's driveway at the point of connection or thirty three feet (33'),
whichever is less.
      3.   The driveway located in an A-1 agricultural district may be composed
of material comparable to an adjoining city or county street or road.
      4.   The driveway must meet Bettendorf fire department maneuverability
and weight bearing standards. (2008 Code § 27-57)
   B.   Application; Fee; Granting Of Permit:
      1.   Application for a permit along with payment of a permit fee pursuant
to the fee schedule adopted from time to time by resolution of the city council
shall be made to the building inspector on forms supplied by the building
department. The community development director shall, within ten (10) days
following the filing of the application, either grant or deny the permit. Said
permit must be granted if the proposed sidewalk, driveway approach or curb cut
will not: (2008 Code § 27-57; amd. 2015 Code)
         a.   Endanger the traveling public or pedestrians;
         b.   Cause damage or injury to any public improvements, public
facilities or public utilities;
         c.   Cause substantial injury to the rights of adjacent property
owners;
         d.   Unreasonably reduce the carrying capacity of the public street.
(2008 Code § 27-57)
      2.   The community development director may grant a permit subject to
conditions or limitations reasonably designed to ensure compliance with the
above.
   C.   Right Of Appeal: The applicant may appeal to the city council a
determination of the community development director granting or denying an
access permit by filing a written notice of appeal with the city clerk within
thirty (30) days following the date of the community development director's
determination. (2008 Code § 27-57; amd. 2015 Code)
7-2-5: SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   City Contract: All sidewalk improvements made by the city shall be done
under written contract. (2008 Code § 27-58)
   B.   Costs Assessed By Resolution: Whenever any sidewalk improvement is
constructed or reconstructed by the council as provided in this chapter, the
cost and expense of the construction or reconstruction shall be assessed by
resolution against the lot or parcel of ground adjoining. (2008 Code § 27-59)
7-2-6: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Minimum Widths:
      1.   All sidewalks shall be constructed a minimum of five feet (5') in
width, except that sidewalks constructed or reconstructed in blocks with
existing sidewalks shall be of the same width and of the same distance from the
property line as the existing sidewalks.
      2.   The sidewalks constructed at the following locations shall be six
feet (6') in width:
Devils Glen Road, on the east side, from State Street to the north entrance to
Crow Creek Park.
Kimberly Road, on the east side, from East Locust Street to Duck Creek.
Middle Road, on the east side, from Crow Creek to Interstate Highway 80.
State Street, on the north side, from 26th Street to the west city limits of
Riverdale.
      3.   The sidewalks constructed at the following locations shall be eight
feet (8') in width:
Middle Road, on the east side, from Norwood Drive to Crow Creek.
   B.   Maintenance Responsibilities:
      1.   Where a sidewalk width is six feet (6') or less, the abutting
property owner shall be responsible for routine maintenance for the full width
of the sidewalk, including, but not limited to, snow removal.
      2.   When the sidewalk width is greater than six feet (6'), the city
shall be responsible for routine maintenance of the full width of the sidewalk,
including, but not limited to, snow removal.
      3.   When an overwidth sidewalk is ordered to be constructed by the city,
the adjacent property owner shall pay the cost of four feet (4') of the width,
with the city paying for the width above that amount, for the entire length
ordered.
   C.   Conformance With Plans And Specifications; Inspection By City: All
permanent sidewalks, driveway approaches and curb cuts shall be constructed in
accordance with the standard drawings and standard specifications of the city
in effect at the time of construction. Said standard drawings and standard
specifications shall be on file in the office of the city engineer. Portland
cement concrete or asphaltic concrete shall not be placed until the preparatory
work has been inspected and approved by an authorized representative of the
city as being in accordance with the standard drawings and standard
specifications.
   D.   Establishment Of Grade: Sidewalk grades shall be as established by city
ordinance and all grades not established by city ordinance will be set by the
city engineer or his representative.    
   E.   Slope; Authority; Appeal:
      1.   All permanent sidewalks shall be constructed at such height above
the top of the curb as may be determined by the city engineer.
      2.   The owner of any abutting property fronting on the proposed sidewalk
may, by serving a written notice to that effect upon the city engineer, appeal
from the decision of the city engineer fixing the height of the sidewalk to the
council. The city engineer shall report his acts and proceedings in the matter
and the fact of the appeal to the council, and the council shall then determine
the height above such curb at which the sidewalk shall be constructed. (2008
Code §§ 27-71 - 27-76; amd. Ord. 16-21, 9-7-2021)
7-2-7: CONTRACTORS, BOND:
Any person, firm or corporation desiring to construct sidewalks, driveway
approaches or make curb cuts on public rights of way in the city shall file
with the city clerk a surety bond in the penal sum of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) conditioned on the faithful performance of all the provisions of
this code, such surety to be a company authorized to transact business as a
surety in the state of Iowa. (2008 Code § 27-82)
7-2-8: SIDEWALK REPAIRS:
   A.   Permit Required; Filing Application; Waiver Of Bond:
      1.   A property owner shall secure a permit to make repairs to an
existing sidewalk abutting his property. Application for a permit to make
repairs to an existing sidewalk shall be made to the building inspector.
      2.   If such repairs total less than twelve (12) linear feet, the
requirement in section
7-2-7 of this chapter that a bond be secured may be waived by the building
inspector.
      3.   All repairs to sidewalks shall be protected by barricades and
warning signs. (2008 Code § 27-85)
   B.   Permit Fee: The fee for each permit for repair of sidewalk shall be per
fee schedule payable to the city of Bettendorf. (2008 Code § 27-86; amd. 2015
Code)
CHAPTER 3
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Permit Required For Certain Excavations
7-3-2: Contents Of Permit Application
7-3-3: Permit Fee; Exemptions
7-3-4: Bond Requirements
7-3-5: Safety Devices
7-3-6: Specifications Of Restoration
7-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN EXCAVATIONS:
No person, firm or corporation shall make any excavation within the right of
way of any street or alley for any purpose without first obtaining a permit
from the building inspector, except:
   A.   If an emergency exists, work may proceed immediately to protect public
safety and the person, firm or corporation responsible for such work shall
secure from the building inspector on the next working day a permit for such
work.
   B.   Employees of the city on official business shall be exempt from this
section. (2008 Code § 27-95)
7-3-2: CONTENTS OF PERMIT APPLICATION:
The application for a permit required by this chapter shall state the place and
purpose of the excavation for which the permit is sought. (2008 Code § 27-96)
7-3-3: PERMIT FEE; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Fee Amount; Franchise Holders Exempt:
      1.   The fee for each excavation permit, which permit shall be for a
single project involving continuous work requiring excavation in the right of
way of any street or alley, shall be pursuant to the fee schedule adopted from
time to time by resolution of the city council. (2008 Code § 27-99; amd. 2015
Code)
      2.   Holders of valid utility franchises which specifically exempt that
utility from a permit fee are exempt from this section. (2008 Code § 27-99)
   B.   Exception For Other Permit; Bond: No fee shall be charged for an
excavation permit if the applicant secures, at the same time and for the same
purpose of excavation another required permit; provided, however, the applicant
has on file with the clerk, a properly executed bond for the work to be
performed. (2008 Code § 27-100)
7-3-4: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Bond Required: The applicant for a permit required by this chapter
shall file with the city clerk a properly executed bond, with sureties to be
approved by the city clerk in the penal sum of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), conditioned for the faithful performance and observation of all
provisions of this code and other ordinances of the city relative to excavation
and further conditioned that the obligors on the bond will save harmless the
city from all damages sustained or caused by reason of the negligence of the
applicant or his agent or employee.
   B.   Business Of Making Excavations: Any person whose business requires the
making of excavations in the public streets for sewer, drain, water or other
connections may file a properly executed bond to the city clerk which shall be
sufficient to fulfill the requirements of this chapter. (2008 Code § 27-97)
7-3-5: SAFETY DEVICES:
It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in any street, alley, or other
public place or within six feet (6') of any sidewalk, street, alley or other
public place unless the excavation is secured by a substantially built
enclosure with warning lights placed and operational at night. (2008 Code § 27-
98)
7-3-6: SPECIFICATIONS OF RESTORATION:
   A.   Restoration: The excavation construction and restoration of any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public property shall be made so as to restore the
property to as good a condition as existed prior to the excavation, but shall
not be less than the standard specifications and requirements of the public
works department adopted pursuant to chapter 2 of this title.
   B.   Maintenance: All excavations shall be maintained in good and suitable
repair to the satisfaction of the public works department for three (3) years
after completion of the excavation work. (2008 Code § 27-101)
CHAPTER 4
UTILITIES FACILITIES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Technical Standards
7-4-2: Location Of Poles; Council Authority
7-4-3: Damage From Utility Poles; Liability
7-4-4: Supervisory Authority
7-4-5: Notice Of Intent To Erect Utility Poles
7-4-6: Removal Of Poles
7-4-7: Actions During Emergencies
7-4-8: Removal Of Underground Facilities
7-4-9: Costs Borne By Owner
7-4-1: TECHNICAL STANDARDS:
All electric wires and poles shall be constructed and maintained in accordance
with the provisions of the electrical code adopted in section
10-4A-1 of this code. (2008 Code § 27-109)
7-4-2: LOCATION OF POLES; COUNCIL AUTHORITY:
   A.   Utility poles shall be removed from the streets and be placed in the
alleys whenever the council shall so order by resolution.
   B.   The council shall have authority as to when and where to remove poles,
and the poles shall be so placed as not to interfere with ordinary private and
public use of any alley, street or private property.
   C.   All poles erected in any street shall be erected within the curb lines.
(2008 Code § 27-110)
7-4-3: DAMAGE FROM UTILITY POLES; LIABILITY:
Any damage to any pavement, sidewalk, water pipe, sewer or other public or
private property resulting from, or in the setting of, telephone, telegraph, or
electric poles in any of the streets, alleys or other public places shall be
paid by the company erecting them, and the city shall not be responsible for
any damages resulting therefrom. (2008 Code § 27-111)
7-4-4: SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY:
   A.   The city engineer shall have general supervision over the erection of
all telegraph, telephone, and other electric wires and the poles and supports
therefor placed in or over the streets and alleys, or along or over any public
or private grounds, and it shall be his duty to enforce the provisions of this
section. (2008 Code § 27-112)
   B.   The electrical inspector shall perform similar duties under direction
and supervision of the community development director. (2008 Code § 27-112;
amd. 2015 Code)
7-4-5: NOTICE OF INTENT TO ERECT UTILITY POLES:
Before any person, having authority to do so, shall erect any telephone,
telegraph or other utility poles in any street, alley or other public place, he
shall serve a three (3) days' notice in writing upon the city engineer, setting
forth the time, place and manner in which the poles are proposed to be erected,
and it shall be the duty of the city engineer to see that the poles are erected
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. (2008 Code § 27-113)
7-4-6: REMOVAL OF POLES:
   A.   Notice: Any utility poles opposite public or private property which
interfere with the use thereof, any poles erected in violation of the
provisions of this chapter, or any poles which need to be moved in the public
interest, shall be moved by the person owning the utility poles, upon written
notice from the city engineer, after adoption of a resolution therefor by the
council. If the notice is not complied with within twenty (20) days, the city
engineer may remove the utility poles, after giving the owner five (5) days'
written notice of his intention to do so.
   B.   Owner Responsible For Expenses: All expenses of the removal shall be
charged to the owner of the utility poles. (2008 Code § 27-114)
7-4-7: ACTIONS DURING EMERGENCIES:
   A.   In case of fire or other emergencies, utility poles, wires and street
fixtures may be cut and removed or the electrical current may be cut off by
order of the fire chief, without any liability or expense on the part of the
city or the fire chief.
   B.   If it is possible to do so, the owner or employees in charge of the
utility equipment shall be previously notified of the necessity to remove the
poles, wires and fixtures or to cut off the electrical current. (2008 Code §
27-115)
7-4-8: REMOVAL OF UNDERGROUND FACILITIES:
Any utility lines, wires, pipes, fixtures or appurtenances located in street
rights of way which interfere with construction, reconstruction or use thereof
shall be moved by the person, firm or corporation owning the lines, wires,
pipes, fixtures or appurtenances, upon written notice from the city engineer.
If the notice is not complied with within twenty (20) days, the city engineer
may remove the utility lines, wires, pipes, fixtures or appurtenances after
giving the owner five (5) days' written notice of his intention to do so. (2008
Code § 27-116)
7-4-9: COSTS BORNE BY OWNER:
The cost of the removal of any utility lines, wires, pipes, fixtures or
appurtenances which have been removed pursuant to any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be borne by the owner of such facilities. (2008 Code § 27-117)
ARTICLE A. UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
SECTION:
7-4A-1: Property Owners Responsible For Connections
7-4A-2: Location Of Connection; Number Required
7-4A-3: Notice To Property Owners; Hearing Of Objections
7-4A-4: Connections Made By City
7-4A-5: Additional Charges; Disposition Of Funds
7-4A-6: Underground Sprinklers In City Right Of Way; Easement Agreement
7-4A-1: PROPERTY OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Responsibility For Connections: Whenever the city council orders any
street, alley, public ground or place permanently improved by paving,
graveling, macadamizing, parking, guttering or curbing, it shall be the duty of
the owners of the property abutting thereon and adjacent thereto to make the
connections from gas, water or steam heating pipes or sewer or underground
electric conduit to the curb line of the abutting or adjacent property before
the improvement is made. (2008 Code § 27-121)
   B.   Supervision: The excavations, connections, and backfilling shall be
made under the direction of the city engineer; the work shall be done according
to the specifications of the city engineer. (2008 Code § 27-121; amd. 2015
Code)
7-4A-2: LOCATION OF CONNECTION; NUMBER REQUIRED:
   A.   Connections required by this article shall be made for each sixty feet
(60') of frontage unless platting, zoning or land use plan requirements provide
for another minimum lot frontage.
   B.   A separate and independent connection to each underground utility shall
be made for each building on an interior lot; however, when no utility
(including, but not limited to, gas, water, steam heating pipes, sewer,
electricity, cable TV and telephone) can be constructed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the connections to the
front building may be extended to the rear building. (2008 Code § 27-122)
7-4A-3: NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS; HEARING OF OBJECTIONS:
   A.   Notice: The city council shall cause notice to be given to owners of
property abutting a proposed improvement subject to this article, by certified
mail and publication, at least thirty (30) days before connection, repair, or
relocation to underground utilities work is required to be done, notifying the
owners to make the connection, repair, or relocation or to show cause in
writing why such connections, repair, or relocation should not be made.
   B.   Objections: At the expiration of the time fixed, the council shall
consider all objections so filed and, if overruled, shall by resolution order
the making of such connections, repairs, or relocation as it deems necessary.
(2008 Code § 27-123)
7-4A-4: CONNECTIONS MADE BY CITY:
   A.   City Work; Assessment Of Costs: If the owners of the property on public
ways or grounds subject to this article fail to make the connections required
by this article in the manner and within the time fixed by the council, the
council may cause the connections to be made and assess the cost thereof
against the property for which they are made.
   B.   Nonpayment; Notify County Auditor: The clerk shall send a bill to the
owner of the property for the cost of the connections, and if the bill is not
paid within ten (10) days of the mailing of the bill, the clerk shall certify
the cost to the county auditor as a special tax against the property for which
the connections were made. (2008 Code § 27-125)
7-4A-5: ADDITIONAL CHARGES; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
In any case where connections required by this article are not made before
permanent public way or ground improvements are made, no permits shall be
issued for the making of the connection, except upon the payment in advance of
a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) in addition to all other fees and
charges, which fee shall be paid to the clerk and by the clerk paid to the
treasurer and credited to the fund used for keeping streets in repair. (2008
Code § 27-126)
7-4A-6: UNDERGROUND SPRINKLERS IN CITY RIGHT OF WAY; EASEMENT AGREEMENT:
In any case where a property owner wishes to install an underground lawn
watering system in the city right of way between the curb of the roadway and
the property edge, for the purpose of watering the sod located thereon, the
owner shall request an easement from the city. The easement agreement shall be
on a form approved by the city attorney. The director of public works shall be
authorized to sign the easement on behalf of the city. The fee for granting the
easement shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00). The easement may be terminated on
thirty (30) days' written notice to the owner and the city shall bear no
responsibility for the installation, maintenance, and removal of the system.
(2008 Code § 27-127)
CHAPTER 5
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Purpose
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Enforcement Powers
7-5-4: Permit Requirements
7-5-5: Bettendorf Landscape Handbook
7-5-6: Permitted Trees And Shrubs
7-5-7: Tree Maintenance Responsibility
7-5-8: Protection Of Trees On Public Property And Rights Of Way
7-5-9: Appeals
7-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the regulation of the planting,
maintenance, and removal of trees, shrubs, and other plants on public ground
and public rights of way, and thereby to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare. (2008 Code § 29-1)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BOULEVARD: That part of public right of way not covered by paving or hard
surface, lying between the property line and that portion of the street
normally used for vehicular traffic.
CROWN: The mass of vegetative growth from the tree trunk.
DRIP ZONE: The entire area on the ground within the outer perimeter of the
crown of the tree projected vertically to the ground.
PERMITTING AUTHORITY: Unless otherwise noted, the permitting authority shall be
the director of parks and recreation or the director's designee.
PLANTING MEDIANS: The area of right of way, not covered by paving or other hard
surface and lying between the paved lanes for vehicle traffic.
SHRUB: A woody plant not classified as a tree.
TREE: Plants which have the capacity to grow to a mature size of at least four
inches (4") diameter (measured 4.5 feet above ground level) and twenty feet
(20') in height. Trees shall also include those plants classified as trees in
the 1976 or later version of "Hortus Third: A Concise Dictionary Of Plants
Cultivated In The United States And Canada".
TREE TOPPING: A severe cutting back of limbs to stubs rather than to lateral
branches within the tree so as to remove the normal crown. (2008 Code § 29-3)
7-5-3: ENFORCEMENT POWERS:
The city code enforcement officer or his designee shall have the power to
enforce this chapter. Such powers shall include:
   A.   The power to require any person to prune, maintain or remove trees,
plants, or shrubs from any property when those plantings interfere with the
ability of the public, city departments, or franchised utility to use public
property or rights of way.
   B.   The power to require abutting property owners to maintain trees,
plants, or shrubs between the property line and the driving surface of rights
of way. (2008 Code § 29-2)
7-5-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Application:
      1.   No person shall plant any tree on public property, including
boulevards, without first procuring a permit.
      2.   The application for permit shall include a drawing showing the
location of all utilities and their proximity to the planting, as well as the
location of the proposed planting, and the species of tree to be planted.
   B.   Approval Required:
      1.   Permits shall be requested from the parks and recreation department,
and shall require approval of the parks and recreation director prior to
issuance.
      2.   Permits will be reviewed by any other appropriate departments prior
to approval.
      3.   Alternatively, a permit shall be deemed given for any development
which is constructed in conformance with a council approved site and
landscaping plan.
   C.   Reasons For Denial: No permit shall be granted if:
      1.   The location of the planting is inappropriate under this chapter.
      2.   The tree is not of a kind approved in the "Bettendorf Landscape
Handbook".
      3.   The planting may interfere with the operation of a city or a
franchised utility. (2008 Code § 29-4)
7-5-5: BETTENDORF LANDSCAPE HANDBOOK:
The city council shall approve, by resolution, a "Bettendorf Landscape
Handbook", which shall list trees which may hereafter be planted within the
city. The handbook shall be reviewed and amended from time to time. The latest
approved version shall be the appropriate reference volume for this chapter.
(2008 Code § 29-5)
7-5-6: PERMITTED TREES AND SHRUBS:
   A.   Planting Restrictions: Any tree or shrub which is otherwise permitted
may not be planted:
      1.   In a boulevard which is less than seven feet (7') wide.
      2.   Within four feet (4') of the curb line.
      3.   Within thirty five feet (35') from the curb of the intersection of
two (2) streets.
      4.   Within twenty feet (20') of a driveway or alley.
   B.   Spacing:
      1.   Tree spacing should be established in the "Bettendorf Landscape
Handbook".
      2.   The permitting authority may grant distance reductions upon a
showing that the public health and safety is enhanced.
   C.   Backfill Soil: During planting, backfill soil shall be substantially
free of rocks and other construction debris. (2008 Code § 29-6)
7-5-7: TREE MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Tree Topping: Tree topping shall not be allowed on any tree on public
property.
   B.   Pruning: The abutting property owner shall be responsible for
maintenance of trees and shrubbery between the back of the curb and the
property line. Such care shall include, but not be limited to, pruning to:
      1.   Allow free passage of pedestrian and vehicle traffic.
      2.   Attain a branch clearance of eight feet (8') over sidewalks.
      3.   Attain a ground clearance of fifteen feet (15') over streets and
alleys.
      4.   Eliminate interference with the light from a streetlight or traffic
light; or visibility of any traffic control device.
   C.   Failure Of Property Owner To Maintain: If the abutting owner fails to
perform the maintenance work as detailed in subsection B of this section, the
code enforcement officer or designee shall contract to have the work done and
shall assess the cost of the maintenance against the property in the manner
provided by law.
   D.   Order To Remove Dead, Decayed Or Broken Limbs: The code enforcement
officer or designee shall order the property owner to remove any dead, decayed,
or broken limb or branch from privately owned property when such tree or any
portion of it constitutes a hazard to the public's use of streets, parks, or
other right of way, or harbors insects or disease which constitutes a potential
threat to other trees within the city. (2008 Code § 29-7)
7-5-8: PROTECTION OF TREES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY AND RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   All construction will be done in such a way as to minimize damage to
any tree, including the root system.
   B.   No person shall intentionally damage, cut, carve, attach any rope,
wire, electric wires, or cables, insulators, nails, advertising posters, or
other contrivance to any tree; allow any gaseous liquid, chemical, or solid
substance that is harmful to such trees to come in contact with them; or set
fire or permit fire to burn when such fire or heat will injure any portion of
any tree.
   C.   No person shall remove, injure, or misuse any guard or device placed to
protect any tree, plant, or shrub growing in any street or public right of way.
   D.   During construction activity, protective plastic barrier fencing or
snow fence shall be erected to protect trees and their drip zones in the
construction area. The fencing will be installed five feet (5') outside the
perimeter of the tree drip zone prior to construction and not removed until
after final cleanup of the construction site.
   E.   At no time shall any construction or personal vehicles park or operate
within five feet (5') of the drip zone of any tree without measures in place to
protect the tree. Protective measures may include fencing, mulching to a
minimum depth of one foot (1') of mulch, planking or cribbing.
   F.   The surface of any unpaved area within five feet (5') of the drip zone
of any tree shall not be used for the storage of any materials.
   G.   At no time shall chemicals, rinsates, or petroleum products be disposed
of on the construction site.
   H.   Ditches or trenches shall not be excavated or laid within five feet
(5') of any drip zone of any tree.
   I.   To preserve viable root systems and maintain structural stability of a
tree, all underground utility placement or replacement shall be done by boring
or tunneling beneath the root systems of the tree.
   J.   The boulevard will not, to the extent possible, be cut into or
disturbed in any way within five feet (5') of any tree's drip zone. This
includes creating setbacks for the new curb and gutter, accommodating slip form
pavers, reducing the height of the boulevard, or, when an alternative exists,
trenching or digging for utilities.
   K.   Curb and gutter replacement adjacent to street trees can be made with
slip form pavers only if the pavers can be accommodated without additional
alterations to the existing boulevard. Where sufficient room does not exist,
the area will be poured using hand set steel forms. Expansion joints or
masonite may be necessary for forming around trees where conventional forms
will not fit.
   L.   If a root must be cut or a damaged root pruned, a clean cut behind the
damaged portion should be used.
   M.   Where sidewalk replacement is necessary, care should be taken to avoid
any injury to the tree's root system. Surface roots may be cut making clean
pruning cuts to a minimum depth below the finished grade of the new walk. The
root system should be cut no further than five inches (5") away from the edge
of the proposed new walk to accommodate its forms.
   N.   At no time shall the boulevard grade be changed by removing soil or
through the addition of soil within five feet (5') of any tree's drip zone.
   O.   Exceptions to any of the aforementioned terms in this section may be
granted only upon sufficient justification and the approval of the permitting
authority. (2008 Code § 29-8)
7-5-9: APPEALS:
Any order issued pursuant to this chapter may be appealed to the city council
within ten (10) days of receipt by providing a written request to appeal to the
city clerk. At the next regularly scheduled council meeting, the council shall
consider the matter and vote to affirm, modify, or revise the order. The
council's decision shall be final. (2008 Code § 29-9)
CHAPTER 6
PARKS AND RECREATION
SECTION:
7-6-1: City Council Waivers
7-6-2: Certain Acts Prohibited Without Permission
7-6-3: Rules For Trail Use In Quad Cities
7-6-4: Leach Park And Eagle's Landing Park And Boat Launch
7-6-5: Park Rules Generally
7-6-6: Splash Landing Family Aquatic Center
7-6-7: Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages
7-6-8: Crow Creek Park; Rules For Enclosed Dog Park
7-6-1: CITY COUNCIL WAIVERS:
The City Council may waive rules otherwise applicable to the parks or
recreation trails for special events, when such waiver is by resolution of the
City Council, and the program leader for the special event keeps a copy of the
resolution available for display to any police officer requesting same. (2008
Code § 20-9; amd. 2015 Code; Ord. 05-21, 3-16-2021)
7-6-2: CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMISSION:
   A.   Approval Required: No person shall swim, wade, boat, or use any type of
flotation device in the quarry located in Crow Creek Park, the lake in
McLamarrah Park, the lagoon in Middle Park, or the creek in Palmer Hills Golf
Course, except when approved by the director of parks and recreation or the
director's designee. (2008 Code § 20-2)
   B.   Permission In Writing: Permission must be in writing and kept with the
permittee and shown to any park and recreation department employee or peace
officer upon request. (2008 Code § 20-2; amd. 2015 Code)
7-6-3: RULES FOR TRAIL USE IN QUAD CITIES:
   A.   Purpose And Intent:
      1.   The trail system is intended for the activities of individuals and
permitted groups for recreation, transportation, fitness and other similar
purposes using human powered propulsion. Activities using powered equipment are
to be permitted by the unit of government given authority to issue permits.
Individuals with disabilities are allowed to use ADA compliant power assisted
devices intended for personal transport on trails.
      2.   The intent of this section is to establish consistent rules and
regulations for trail use. The rules set forth herein are a supplement to any
existing state vehicle codes or other applicable federal, state, or local rules
and regulations pertaining to trail use.
      3.   The rules set out in this section will apply to all persons using
the recreation trails within the city limits.
   B.   Trail: "Trail", for the purposes of this section, is a multiuse trail,
side path or shared use path defined by the American Association Of State
Highway And Transportation Officials (AASHTO) as a bikeway physically separated
from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and either within
the highway right of way or on other public property or within an easement
dedicated for public use. These facilities may also be used by pedestrians,
skaters, wheelchair users, joggers, and other nonmotorized users.
   C.   Compliant Vehicles: Compliant vehicles are human powered devices no
wider than four feet (4') with the exception of equipment approved by the
governing agency for use to maintain the trail, provide for public safety, or
specially permitted for use by the governing agency responsible for the trail.
   D.   General Guidelines: Trails may be established for the purposes of
recreation, transportation, fitness and other similar purposes. They are
intended for human powered activities including, but not limited to, walking
and running; the use of devices such as bicycles, skates, skateboards, skis and
other similar activities; and recognized disability equipment for persons with
disabilities.
   E.   Trail System: There is hereby established in the city a trail system in
the lands, public parks, and/or rights of way heretofore designated or set
apart by the city for use as trails.
   F.   Rules; Restrictions: Users of the trail shall not:
      1.   Travel at a rate of speed that is greater than reasonable and
prudent.
      2.   Use the trail in a negligent manner that is likely to endanger
persons or property. Trail users shall use common courtesy and respect the
rights and safety of others. The applicable state regulations regarding the
equipment required to allow the safe operation of bicycles and other wheeled
vehicles during the time of the day when natural light is diminished shall be
applied to the trails subject to this section.
      3.   Use the trail under the influence of alcohol or other controlled
substances.
      4.   Walk any animal unless on a leash no longer than six feet (6') and
with the owner in complete physical control at all times.
      5.   Litter, leave animal waste, or discard any other items along or near
the trail.
      6.   Operate any vehicle other than a compliant vehicle as defined in
subsection C of this section. (2008 Code § 20-3; amd. 2015 Code)
7-6-4: LEACH PARK AND EAGLE'S LANDING PARK AND BOAT LAUNCH:
The following rules will apply to all persons using Leach Park and Eagle's
Landing Park and boat launch:
   A.   No operator of any boat or other watercraft shall operate in the boat
launching basin or near the boat launching ramps unless docking, launching, or
loading the craft.
   B.   No person shall operate any vehicle in a careless manner, or indulge in
waterskiing in the proximity of docking or launching areas.
   C.   No person shall wash any vehicle in the parking lot or launching areas,
although wiping of boats in authorized parking spaces after they are removed
from the water is permissible.
   D.   No person shall swim or wade in the Mississippi River adjacent to Leach
Park or Eagle's Landing Park and boat launch unless in conjunction with the
launching or docking of a boat or personal watercraft.
   E.   No person shall leave a vehicle or boat on Leach Park grounds or
Eagle's Landing Park and boat launch grounds with the purpose of displaying
such vehicle or boat for sale. No person shall leave a boat moored to the Leach
Park property or Eagle's Landing Park and boat launch property overnight.
   F.   No person shall fish from the docks (except at the Crow Creek Park
quarry) or launch area of the parks, or clean fish in any area of the parks.
   G.   No person shall park a vehicle and boat trailer at any place signed "No
Parking", except to launch or land boats. Vehicles with boat trailers are only
allowed to park in areas designated for trailer parking.
   H.   After the boat is launched or loaded, the vehicle or trailer carrying
the boat shall be moved from the launch area so that others may use the
facility. No boat cleanup shall be allowed at the dock or ramp. Personal
watercraft (i.e., jet skis, etc.) shall be allowed to dock only at the dock
designated for those watercraft. (2008 Code § 20-4)
7-6-5: PARK RULES GENERALLY:
The following rules shall apply to all parks and public grounds within the
city:
   A.   Motor vehicles (including, but not limited to, snowmobiles, minibikes,
motorized skateboards, motorbikes, motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles (ATVs),
cars, or trucks) shall not be operated on separated trails, bicycle paths,
fitness trails, jogging paths, or park grounds, except park roads and parking
lots. The prohibitions of this section shall not apply to park and recreation
department or public safety vehicles, or any other vehicles authorized by the
parks and recreation director, chief of police or his or her designee.
   B.   No motor vehicle may be parked in areas of a park or City Council
facility except in designated parking lots or areas. Any vehicle parked at any
location other than a designated parking lot or area or any vehicle left in a
city park after the park closes may be ticketed or towed, and the costs of the
tow and storage shall be paid by the owner prior to the vehicle's release. The
director of parks and recreation or the director's designee may approve
temporary parking areas for special events or programs with such areas signed
where approval is given.
   C.   No person shall fly, operate, use, or control any power driven model
aircraft except when authorized by the director of parks and recreation or the
director's designee with such permission to be in writing kept by the permittee
and shown to any park and recreation department employee or peace officer upon
request.
   D.   No person shall ride any horse, mule, or any animal in any park area
unless permission is granted by the director of parks and recreation or the
director's designee with such permission to be in writing kept by the permittee
and shown to any park and recreation department employee or peace officer upon
request.
   E.   No bicycle shall be ridden or parked by any person within the safety
surface area of any playground.
   F.   No person shall damage, destroy, deface, remove any signage or
equipment, building, structure, tree, vegetation, or machine owned by or under
the control of the park and recreation board.
   G.   No person shall camp, golf (except at Palmer Hills Golf Course and only
upon paying the fee therefor), trap wild animals, fish (except at Leach Park,
Eagle's Landing Park and boat launch, the Crow Creek Park quarry, and at Middle
Park lagoon), or boat (except at Leach Park and Eagle's Landing Park and boat
launch) at any park in the city, unless authorized by the director of parks and
recreation, or the director's designee, and a letter authorizing the action is
carried with the person and made readily available to any park and recreation
department employee or peace officer upon request. Fishing at the designated
areas is permissible only if the appropriate licenses are in the possession of
the participants. Ice fishing is prohibited in any park area. Swimming is
allowed only at Splash Landing and the Life Fitness Center.
   H.   No person shall throw or deposit on any park or public ground any glass
bottles, glass, nails, tacks, wires, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, or
any other debris or any substance likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle, except when placed in the appropriate refuse containers located in the
park.
   I.   All parks, with the exception of Palmer Hills Golf Course and Ed Scheck
Park, shall close at ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. each day, and shall reopen
at sunrise unless an activity is a regularly scheduled activity or otherwise
approved of by the director of parks and recreation or the director's designee
with such permission to be in writing, kept by the permittee, and shown to any
park and recreation department employee or peace officer upon request. Palmer
Hills Golf Course shall be open at such time as will allow persons to golf or
use the driving range. Ed Scheck Park shall close at ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
When closed, no person shall remain on park grounds.
   J.   The maximum speed limit for vehicles in city parks shall be fifteen
(15) miles per hour and such limit shall be posted at each park entrance.
   K.   No person shall operate, land, or launch a hot air balloon, airplane,
glider, hang glider, or helicopter, except if authorized by the director of
parks and recreation, or the director's designee with such permission to be in
writing, kept by the permittee, and shown to any park and recreation department
employee or peace officer upon request.
   L.   No person shall hunt, pursue, or take any wild animal, bird, or game,
and no one shall carry firearms, air guns, or bow and arrows unless authorized
by the police chief or the director of parks and recreation, or their
respective designees.
   M.   No person shall ice skate in any park (except at the Middle Park lagoon
when indicated by the green light).
   N.   No person shall place in any trash receptacle, or on any public
property, "yard waste" as defined elsewhere in this code.
   O.   No person shall, upon or in connection with any property of the park
and recreation department:
      1.   Set fire, or cause to be set on fire, any tree, forest, brushland,
grassland, meadow, prairie, marsh, refuse, container, or structure, unless
authorized by the director of parks and recreation, or the director's designee.
      2.   Build a fire anywhere, for any purpose, except in appropriate
receptacles.
      3.   Drop, throw away, or scatter any burning, lighted or hot coals,
ashes, cigarette, cigar, firecracker, or match.
      4.   Build any fire whatsoever, for any purpose in a receptacle or
fireplace and thereafter leave it unattended, unless such fire is properly
extinguished. For the purpose of this subsection, a fire shall be deemed
properly extinguished when its ashes, residue, coals, and unburned substances
are cold to the human touch.
   P.   No person shall reserve or use a park facility for a "special event"
(refer to the special event policy for guidelines) without appropriate
insurance coverage. The applicant shall provide a certificate of general
liability insurance, naming the city of Bettendorf as an additional named
insured (and not as a certificate holder) in an amount of three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) combined single limit per occurrence. If the
applicant is an organization, and not a private individual, the insurance
amount shall be no less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00). (See
section
7-6-7, "Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages", of this chapter for further
requirements that apply to alcohol use.)
   Q.   1. Pursuant to section
2-8-10 of this code, any full time park and recreation department management
staff member, or their designee, has the authority to suspend any patron from
participating in any park and recreation department activity or usage of any
park and recreation department facility for a period of up to seven (7) days,
provided any suspension beyond twenty four (24) hours must be approved by the
director of parks and recreation or the director's designee. Such approval may
be given either before or after the suspension is ordered.
      2.   The director of parks and recreation or the director's designee may
order the suspension of any individual's use of a facility or participation in
a program of the park and recreation department for a time not to exceed one
year.
      3.   Suspension in excess of a year may only be ordered by the park and
recreation board. (2008 Code § 20-5; amd. 2015 Code; Ord. 05-21, 3-16-2021)
7-6-6: SPLASH LANDING FAMILY AQUATIC CENTER:
The following rules shall apply to the Splash Landing Family Aquatic Center.
All patrons shall observe the posted pool rules and regulations at the Splash
Landing Family Aquatic Center, and specifically:
   A.   Maximum occupancy shall be as set by the Scott County health department
and the city fire chief. When occupancy limit is reached, no other person may
be admitted until the number of patrons using the facility is reduced.
   B.   No bicycles, skateboards, or motorbikes shall be operated on the paved
area surrounding the pool, except for peace officers or other authorized city
personnel.
   C.   No person shall obstruct the passage of pedestrians on the paved area
surrounding the pool.
   D.   No person may bring food, drink, or cigars/cigarettes into the fenced
swimming pool area.
   E.   Inside the fenced pool area, no person shall engage in fighting,
dunking, or other conduct likely to be dangerous to the other patrons. No
person shall harass or distract the lifeguards from their duties. (2008 Code §
20-6)
   F.   No child under the age of eleven (11) will be admitted unless
accompanied by a parent, guardian, or person over the age of sixteen (16)
designated by the parent or guardian to watch over and be responsible for the
child while at the pool area when permission is given by the pool management
staff. (2008 Code § 20-6; amd. 2015 Code)
   G.   No person shall remain in the fenced pool deck area unless having
showered and changed into pool attire. Street clothes will be allowed in
designated areas only.
   H.   No person shall use a pass not assigned to that person. Any person
found violating this subsection may have the pass revoked and will be required
to leave the pool. (2008 Code § 20-6)
7-6-7: CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
The following rules shall apply to the consumption of alcoholic beverages:
   A.   Palmer Hills Golf Course: No person shall consume alcoholic beverages
on Palmer Hills Golf Course unless the beverage is purchased from the liquor
license holder located thereon, unless a one hundred dollar ($100.00) beverage
consumption fee is paid therefor.
   B.   Where Permitted: Public use and consumption of beer in cans only is
authorized only in the following parks:
      1.   Crow Creek Park, within one hundred feet (100') of any reservable
shelter.
      2.   Middle Park, within one hundred feet (100') of the Middle Park
lagoon shelter.
      3.   Veterans Memorial Park, within one hundred feet (100') of the
bandshell shelter.
      4.   Devils Glen Park, within one hundred feet (100') of any reservable
shelter.
      5.   At such additional locations as may be approved by the park and
recreation board by resolution.
   C.   Special Event Approval: Special event approval is not required for use
or possession of any can of beer under the capacity of forty one (41) ounces.
If distributing to others (gifting, not selling) a certificate, naming the city
of Bettendorf as an additional named insured (and not as a certificate holder),
verifying host liquor coverage in an amount not less than three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) per occurrence, must be provided. If the
applicant is distributing alcohol to others (selling, not gifting), the
applicant shall provide, as defined in state law and regulation, dramshop
coverage in the amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
   D.   Kegs: No person shall be allowed to possess a keg or kegs of beer in
the parks without completing the following items:
      1.   Provide a special event application to and obtain approval by the
City Council at their monthly meeting.
      2.   Provide a minimum one hundred dollar ($100.00) refundable deposit.
   E.   City Council Ground: Except as otherwise authorized in this section, no
consumption of any alcohol or alcoholic beverages shall be allowed on any
ground owned or controlled by the Bettendorf City Council. (2008 Code § 20-7;
amd. 2015 Code; Ord. 05-21, 3-16-2021)
7-6-8: CROW CREEK PARK; RULES FOR ENCLOSED DOG PARK:
   A.   The dog park is open daily from dawn until ten thirty o'clock (10:30)
P.M. unless closed for maintenance. (2008 Code § 20-8; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Sports activities, dog training, and business uses are prohibited
unless authorized by the director of parks and recreation.
   C.   Dogs must be in view and under the control of their handlers at all
times. All handlers must be at least sixteen (16) years of age. Each handler
must have a leash in hand at all times.
   D.   No more than two (2) dogs per handler are permitted in the park on any
one visit. Dogs cannot be left alone in the dog park.
   E.   Dogs must wear collars with current vaccination tags and city dog
licenses attached. (Dog licenses are available at city hall, 1609 State Street,
Bettendorf.)
   F.   Puppies under five (5) months of age and female dogs in heat are
prohibited from the park.
   G.   Owners are required to pick up and dispose of their dog's waste.
   H.   Dogs must be on a leash when they are outside of the dog park.
   I.   Remove or reattach leashes while the dog is in the staging area. Do not
enter the play area with the dog on leash.
   J.   Children under four feet (4') in height are not permitted in the dog
park. Children under sixteen (16) years of age must be closely supervised by an
adult.
   K.   Dogs that consistently exhibit dominant aggressive behavior, dogs that
regularly do not come when called, dogs that play too roughly, and dogs that
cannot control their barking must be removed from the park immediately and
without debate. Owners are required to stop their dog from digging and are
responsible for filling any holes their pet creates.
   L.   Smoking is not allowed in the dog park. (Tobacco products are hazardous
to canine health.)
   M.   The following items are not allowed in the dog park:
      1.   Bicycles, skates, rollerblades, skateboards.
      2.   Strollers, baby carriages.
      3.   Children's toys.
      4.   Dog treats and rawhides.
      5.   Food (dog and human).
      6.   Glass bottles.
      7.   Prong or spike collars.
   N.   Water must be furnished outside the dog park, and owners bringing pet
toys must take them when they leave. (2008 Code § 20-8)
CHAPTER 7
SCHOOL GROUNDS
SECTION:
7-7-1: Definitions
7-7-2: Uses Prohibited
7-7-3: Operation Of Motor Vehicles
7-7-4: Damage To School Property
7-7-5: Animals
7-7-6: Litter
7-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the terms used herein are defined as follows:
MOTOR VEHICLE: Automobiles, buses, trucks, recreational vehicles, snowmobiles,
minibikes, motorized skateboards, motorbikes, motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles
and any other self-propelled motorized conveyance, but not including public
safety vehicles or school district maintenance vehicles.
SCHOOL GROUNDS: All property owned by the Bettendorf community school district
and the Pleasant Valley community school district, located within the corporate
limits of the city, whether the property is used for school purposes or not.
(2008 Code § 26.5-1)
7-7-2: USES PROHIBITED:
Unless in conjunction with an authorized school activity, no person shall enter
or remain upon school grounds to:
   A.   Fly, operate, use or control any power driven model aircraft.
   B.   Ride a horse.
   C.   Shoot any airgun, firearm or bow and arrow.
   D.   Camp, golf or trap animals.
   E.   Operate, take off or land a hot air balloon, airplane, glider or hang
glider.
   F.   Perform an activity after sundown or before sunrise without
authorization or supervision by school officials. (2008 Code § 26.5-2)
7-7-3: OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES:
Unless otherwise posted, all motor vehicles shall remain on roadways and
parking areas. No motor vehicle shall be operated on school grounds at a speed
in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour. (2008 Code § 26.5-3)
7-7-4: DAMAGE TO SCHOOL PROPERTY:
No person shall change, deface, remove or alter any equipment, building,
structure, tree or other vegetation located on school grounds. (2008 Code §
26.5-4)
7-7-5: ANIMALS:
No person shall bring or allow an animal owned or controlled by such person on
school grounds without a leash not exceeding six feet (6') in length attached
to the animal and held by such person at all times while the animal is on
school grounds. (2008 Code § 26.5-5)
7-7-6: LITTER:
No person shall place on school grounds any glass bottles, nails, tacks, wires,
trash, rubbish, litter or any other debris or substance likely to injure person
or property. (2008 Code § 26.5-6)
CHAPTER 8
RAILROADS
SECTION:
7-8-1: Obstructing Railroads
7-8-2: Climbing On Cars, Locomotives
7-8-3: Speed Regulated At Certain Crossings
7-8-4: When Use Of Bell Required; Slowing
7-8-5: Switching Without Locomotive Attached
7-8-6: Watchman Used When Cars Moved Ahead Of Locomotive
7-8-1: OBSTRUCTING RAILROADS:
It shall be unlawful to obstruct the operation of any railroad or interfere
therewith by placing any stick, stone, or obstacle upon the tracks or rails.
(2008 Code § 26-1)
7-8-2: CLIMBING ON CARS, LOCOMOTIVES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to get on or off the cars of any railway with the
intent to annoy or interfere with the persons in charge of said cars.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to get upon or off a locomotive, engine or car of
any railroad company while the same is in motion, unless employed thereon or an
officer of the law in the discharge of his duty. (2008 Code § 26-2)
7-8-3: SPEED REGULATED AT CERTAIN CROSSINGS:
It shall be unlawful for any conductor, engineer or other person to run or move
any locomotive or car over the crossings of any railroad track where they
intersect with 36th, 33rd, 31st, 26th, 17th, and 12th Streets in the city at a
speed greater than twenty (20) miles per hour. (2008 Code § 26-3)
7-8-4: WHEN USE OF BELL REQUIRED; SLOWING:
It shall be the duty of the engineer having charge of any locomotive to cause
the engine bell to be rung upon the approach of the locomotive to any street
crossing or whenever any person or animal is upon the railroad track at such
crossing and, if necessary to avoid danger, to slacken the speed of the
locomotive. (2008 Code § 26-4)
7-8-5: SWITCHING WITHOUT LOCOMOTIVE ATTACHED:
It shall be unlawful for any conductor, engineer or other person to make flying
switches over any street or to move any car or cars over any street without
having an engine attached thereto. (2008 Code § 26-6)
7-8-6: WATCHMAN USED WHEN CARS MOVED AHEAD OF LOCOMOTIVE:
It shall be unlawful for any conductor, engineer or other person to move any
car or cars over any street when the car or cars are moving ahead of the
engine, unless some employee of the railroad company is stationed at such
crossing to give warning of the approach of the car or cars. (2008 Code § 26-7)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES AND SERVICES
CHAPTER 1
WATER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Water Well Construction Permit
8-1-2: Broken Water Line; Property Owner To Repair
8-1-3: Use Of Hydrants
8-1-4: Abandonment Of Water Service Line
8-1-1: WATER WELL CONSTRUCTION PERMIT:
Permit Required: No person shall drill or construct a drinking water or
nondrinking water well for use within the following described areas in
Bettendorf, Iowa, unless a permit has been issued by the Scott County health
department: The area known as "1837 State Street, LUST #8LTL71, UST
registration #9017085, within 1,000 feet (MW-3)", the area known as "1740 State
Street, LUST # 9LTB51, UST registration # 198600808, within 1,000 feet (MW-5)”
and the area known as "1101 Devils Glen Road, LUST #8LTB06, UST registration
#198912210, within 1,000 feet (MW-16)”. (Ord. 20-22, 10-18-2022; amd. Ord. 19-
24, 9-3-2024; Ord. 23-24, 11-19-2024)
8-1-2: BROKEN WATER LINE; PROPERTY OWNER TO REPAIR:
   A.   Owner To Repair: It shall be the duty of any property owner to repair a
broken water service line up to and including the tap or intersecting fitting;
this does not apply to public water supply mains.
   B.   Repair By City; Assessment Of Cost: In the event that a water service
line is not repaired within a reasonable length of time, to be determined by
the administrative authority, the city may repair same and assess the actual
cost thereof against the property. (2008 Code § 31-1)
8-1-3: USE OF HYDRANTS:
Hydrants may be opened by a member of the fire department in the case of fire
or for other fire department purposes. The city may designate other employees
who may also be permitted to open hydrants in accordance with the rules of the
utility supplying the water. (2008 Code § 31-12)
8-1-4: ABANDONMENT OF WATER SERVICE LINE:
A water service line shall be abandoned at its connection to the public water
supply main. (2008 Code § 31-13)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-2-1: General Provisions
8-2-2: Abbreviations
8-2-3: Definitions
8-2-4: Administration
8-2-5: Powers And Authority Of Inspection
8-2-6: Comprehensive Sewer Service Charges - Enumerated
8-2-7: Sewer Utility Rates
8-2-8: Service Charge Billing; Delinquencies; Collections
8-2-9: Sewer Connection Fees; Disposition Of Funds
8-2-10: Confidentiality Of Information
8-2-11: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-2-12: Broken Sewer Line; Property Owner To Repair
8-2-13: Prohibited Acts
8-2-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   General Adoption: The provisions of this chapter are enacted to aid in
the enforcement of the pretreatment regulations set forth herein and may be
placed in a separate portion of the municipal code of any Joint Contract
Sewerage Committee (JCSC) constituent community. Each Joint Contract Sewerage
Committee (JCSC) constituent community designates the City of Davenport as the
enforcement agency under this chapter. Employees, agents and officers of the
City of Davenport while acting to enforce the provisions of this chapter for
the Joint Contract Sewerage Committee are empowered to make such inspections,
issue such orders or permits and take such actions within the boundaries of the
JCSC as are authorized by this chapter.
   No unauthorized person shall in any manner break, damage, destroy, or tamper
with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment, which is part of the wastewater
facilities or the public sanitary sewer system.
   B.   Intent And Construction: This chapter seeks to implement provisions of
the Act, the General Pretreatment Regulations, and the Iowa Administrative
Code, Chapter 567, Sections 62.4 and 62.8. This chapter is to be construed and
applied in accordance with the Clean Water Act Amendments, the General
Pretreatment Regulations, the Iowa Administrative Code and the purpose and
policy provision set forth in subsection C below.
   C.   Purpose And Policy: This chapter regulates the use of sewers, private
wastewater disposal, the installation and connection of building sewers, the
discharge of water and waste into the sewers and drains of the JCSC system, the
discharge of water and waste into the sewers and drains of the Bettendorf
Sewage System systems, and the discharge to the Davenport JCSC POTW. This
chapter sets forth uniform requirements for dischargers into the wastewater
collection and treatment systems of Bettendorf and the JCSC constituents.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
      1.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that may
interfere with the operation of the system or interfere with sludge management
and disposal;
      2.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that may
pass through the system inadequately treated and ultimately into receiving
water, the atmosphere, or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      3.   To protect workers' safety and health and to protect against damage
to the POTW;
      4.   To provide for equitable distribution of treatment and industrial
pretreatment costs resulting from pollutants introduced into the POTW.
      5.   To enable the POTW to comply with its NPDES permit conditions,
sludge use and disposal requirements, and any other Federal or State laws to
which the POTW is subject.
   D.   Jurisdiction: The provisions of this chapter are applicable in their
entirety to all users and contributors of wastewater, directly or indirectly,
into the wastewater treatment works of the City of Davenport or into the
wastewater collection and treatment system of the City of Bettendorf or the
JCSC without regard to whether the physical facilities of such contributors, or
the physical portion of the wastewater collection system is situated within or
outside the corporate limits of the City of Bettendorf.
   Unless otherwise expressly provided by contract providing for extension of
service by the City outside of the City, such City extended services and each
particular thereof shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Severability: If any provision of this chapter or the application
thereof to any particular person or particular circumstance is held invalid,
the invalidity shall not affect other provisions or application of this chapter
which can be given effect without the invalid provision or application. To this
end the provisions of this chapter are severable.
   F.   Discharge Of Sewage Prohibited - Exception: It is unlawful to discharge
to any natural outlet within the City or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the City any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   G.   Construction Of Privies, Etc. - Prohibited: Except as provided in this
chapter, it is unlawful to construct, use, or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
sewage.
   H.   Discharge Of Surface Water: It is unlawful to make or to have any
connection of roof downspouts, exterior or interior foundation drains, driveway
drains, garage drains or other sources of surface water groundwater,
stormwater, roof runoff, or subsurface drainage to a building sewer or lateral
which is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   I.   Discharge Of Storm Water And Unpolluted Drainage: Storm water,
industrial cooling water, unpolluted process waters and all other unpolluted
drainage shall be discharged to such sewers or natural outlets as are
specifically designated and approved by the Water Pollution Control Plant
Manager.
   J.   Interpretation: This chapter shall be construed and interpreted to
conform with 40 CFR Chapter I and it is the intent of this chapter that it
comply with said federal regulations. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2-2: ABBREVIATIONS:
The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
BETX      Benzene, Ethylbenzene, Toluene, and Xylene
BOD/CBO D Biochemical Oxygen Demand/Carbonaceous BOD
BMR       Baseline Monitoring Report
C         Celsius
CFR       Code of Federal Regulations
COD       Chemical Oxygen Demand
EPA       Environmental Protection Agency
F         Fahrenheit
GPD       Gallons per day
IDNR      Iowa Department of Natural Resources
lb/day    Pounds per day
MGD       Million Gallons per Day
mg/l      Milligrams per liter
NCPS      National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or Categorical Standards
NH3N      Ammonia Nitrogen
NPDES     National Pollution Discharge Elimination System
O&G       Oil and Grease
POTW      Publicly Owned Treatment Works
SCP       Spill Control Plan
SIC       Standard Industrial Classification
SNC       Significant Noncompliance
RCRA      Resource Conservation & Recovery Act
TCLP      Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure
TFE       Trichloro trifluoroethane
TKN       Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen
TOH       Total Organic Hydrocarbons
TPH       Total Purgeable Hydrocarbons
TRC       Technical Review Criteria
TSS       Total Suspended Solids
TTO       Total Toxic Organics
USC       United States Code
USEPA     United States Environmental Protection Agency
 
(Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
ACT OR CLEAN    The 1972 Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the 1977 Clean Water Act, and the
WATER ACT:      1987 Water Quality Act, as amended.
APPROVAL        The Iowa Department of Natural Resources.
AUTHORITY:
                (1)   If the User is a corporation:
                   (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer or a vice-president of the corporation
                in charge of a principle business function, or any other person who performs
                similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
                   (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operating
                facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management decisions that
                govern the operation of the regulated facility including having the explicit or
                implicit duty of making major capital investment recommendations, and initiate and
                direct other comprehensive measures to assure long-term environmental compliance
AUTHORIZED      with environmental laws and regulations; can ensure that the necessary systems are
REPRESENTATIVE  established or actions taken to gather complete and accurate information for
OR DULY         individual wastewater discharge permit requirements; and where authority to sign
AUTHORIZED      documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with
REPRESENTATIVE  corporate procedures.
OF THE USER:    (2)   If the User is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general partner or
                proprietor, respectively.
                (3)   If the User is a Federal, State, or local governmental facility: a director
                or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and
                performance of the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
                (4)   The individuals described in paragraphs 1 through 3, above, may designate a
                Duly Authorized Representative if the authorization is in writing, the
                authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the overall
                operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having overall
                responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the written
                authorization is submitted to the City of Davenport Pretreatment Office.
BASELINE
MONITORING      The report required by 40 CFR Part 403.12(b)(17).
REPORT:
BIOCHEMICAL     The analysis of BOD as described in EPA Methods or other methods approved by 40 CFR
OXYGEN DEMAND   136.
(BOD):
                That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the
BUILDING DRAIN: discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside the wall of the building and
                conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five feet outside the building wall.
BUILDING        The extension from the building sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half
LATERAL:        meters) out-side the inner face of the building wall and extending to the public
                sewer or other place of disposal.
                That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which receives the discharge
BUILDING SEWER: from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and
                conveys it to the building lateral or other approved point of discharge.
BYPASS:         The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of an industrial user's
                pretreatment facility.
CATEGORICAL     A user subject to NCPS.
USER:
CHEMICAL OXYGEN A measure of the oxygen required to oxidize all compounds, both organic and
DEMAND (COD):   inorganic, in water.
                The City of Davenport as operating agency and enforcement agency of the JCSC both
CITY:           within its own corporate boundaries and within all territory encompassed by the
                JCSC or the City of Bettendorf as operating agency and enforcement agency within
                its own corporate boundaries.
CITY COUNCIL:   The City of Bettendorf City Council.
CITY OF
DAVENPORT POTW  That portion of the POTW, which is designed to provide treatment (including
TREATMENT       recycling and reclamation) of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
PLANT:
CITY WATER
POLLUTION       The Davenport City Water Pollution Control Plant Manager.
CONTROL PLANT
MANAGER:
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive wastewater, storm water, surface
                water and ground water drainage.
COMBINED WASTE  The formula as found in 40 CFR Part 403.6(e).
STREAM FORMULA:
COMPOSITE       A representative sample using a minimum of four grab sample aliquots obtained over
SAMPLE:         a period of time and mixed using either a flow proportional or time proportional
                method.
COMPREHENSIVE
SEWER SERVICE   The charge per quarter or month levied on all users of the waste-water system.
CHARGE:
CONVENTIONAL    BOD, COD, O&G, suspended solids, pH, ammonia nitrogen, total kjeldahl nitrogen and
POLLUTANT:      fecal coliform bacteria.
DIRECTOR:       The director of the department of public works or the director's representative.
DISCHARGE OR
INDIRECT        The introduction of treated or untreated wastewater into the POTW.
DISCHARGE:
DISSOLVED       The concentration of residue left in an evaporating dish after evaporation and
SOLIDS:         drying at defined temperatures using EPA methods or other methods approved in 40
                CFR 136.
DOMESTIC        All household type waste discharged from places of human habitation including
SEWAGE:         sanitary convenience, kitchen and laundry waste.
DOMESTIC        Is a term used to evaluate the strength of wastewater and equals a strength of BOD
STRENGTH:       of 250 mg/l and TSS of 300 mg/l.
                All users discharging only domestic sewage from premises consisting of any building
DOMESTIC USER:  or parts of building designed for or occupied by one or more persons as a single
                housekeeping unit, including such units within multifamily dwellings, flats and
                apartment buildings.
                The USEPA approved standard procedures for wastewater analysis as prescribed in 40
EPA METHODS:    CFR Part 136 and shall include alternate methods approved by the approval
                authority.
FECAL COLIFORM: Bacteria common to the intestinal tracts of humans and animals whose presence in
                water is an indication of pollution.
GARBAGE:        Solid waste from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and dispensing of
                food, and from the commercial handling, storage and sale of produce.
GRAB SAMPLE:    A single aliquot sample collected, either directly or by means of a mechanical
                device, without regard to the flow in the waste stream.
HEADWORKS:      The main wet well at the POTW treatment plant prior to any treatment process.
INDUSTRIAL      See "User".
USER:
INDUSTRIAL      The liquid waste from industrial users as distinct from domestic sewage.
WASTE:
                A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from
                other sources, both:
                (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or operations, or its
INTERFERENCE:   sludge processes, use or disposal; and
                (2)   Causes a violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit (including
                an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or prevents sewage sludge
                use or disposal in compliance with any federal, state or local regulations or
                permits.
                The Joint Contract Sewerage Committee consisting of the JCSC constituent
                communities who are by joint government action, as defined in the JCSC 28E
JCSC:           agreements as from time to time amended, are committed to utilize the wastewater
                treatment plant (POTW) and certain outfall and interception sewers of the
                wastewater treatment system and to support the operating and capital costs thereof
                through payments to the City of Davenport.
                The maximum allowable discharge of a given pollutant as in the following
                definitions:
                (1)   "Daily Maximum Limit" means the maximum allowable discharge of pollutant
                during a calendar day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in units of mass,
                the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the day. Where
LIMIT:          daily maximum limits are expressed in terms of concentration, the daily discharge
                is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant concentration derived from
                all measurements taken that day.
                (2)   "Monthly Average Limit" means The maximum allowable average of "daily
                discharges" over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all "daily discharges"
                measured during a calendar month divided by the number of "daily discharges"
                measured during that month.
                A specific discharge limit developed and enforced by the City upon industrial
LOCAL LIMIT:    facilities to implement the general and specific discharge prohibitions listed in
                40 CFR 403.5 (a)(1) and (b).
MAY:            Confers a power (permissive).
MUST:           States a requirement.
NATIONAL
CATEGORICAL     Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
PRETREATMENT    accordance with Section 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33U.S.C. § 1317) which apply to
STANDARDS       a specific category of users and which appear in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N,
(NCPS) OR       405-471.
CATEGORICAL
STANDARDS:
NATIONAL
POLLUTION
DISCHARGE       A permit issued pursuant to the Act.
ELIMINATION
SYSTEM (NPDES)
PERMIT:
NEW SOURCE:     Shall be as defined by 40 CFR 403.3(k).
NH3 N:          The ammonia nitrogen concentration in mg/l as determined using EPA methods.
NONCONVENTIONAL All pollutants, which are not included in the definition of conventional
POLLUTANTS:     pollutants.
OIL AND GREASE  Any material recovered as a substance that is soluble in n-Hexane and which may
(O&G):          further be divided into a mineral and non-mineral fraction using EPA approved
                methods or standard methods.
                A discharge which exits the POTW into water of the state in quantities or
                concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from
PASS THROUGH:   other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES
                permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or other
                permit issued to the POTW by IDNR or USEPA.
                Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company, association, joint
PERSON:         stock company, society, corporation trust, estate, municipality, governmental
                entity, group, or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents,
                or assigns.
                A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in standard units
pH:             (su). The measurement used is the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of
                hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
POLLUTION:      The alteration of chemical, physical, biological, or radiological integrity of
                water as a result of human activity or enterprise.
                The reduction, elimination, or alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
PRETREATMENT:   wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such
                pollutants into the POTW.
PRETREATMENT    The equipment used to accomplish pretreatment.
FACILITY:
PRETREATMENT    Any substantive or procedural requirement related to pretreatment imposed on an
REQUIREMENTS:   industrial user.
                For any specified pollutant, the City of Bettendorf prohibitive discharge standards
PRETREATMENT    as set forth in section
STANDARDS:      8-2B-2, the City's local limits for specific pollutants as set forth in section
                8-2B-3, the State of Iowa pretreatment standards or the NCPS. The most stringent
                standard will be applied per pollutant.
PROPERLY        The waste from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food that have been
SHREDDED        shredded to such a degree that all particles are carried freely under the flow
GARBAGE:        conditions normally prevailing in the POTW, with no particle greater than one-half
                inch in any dimension.
                A treatment works as defined by Section 212 of the Act, and shall include the POTW
                owned by the JCSC and operated by the City of Davenport as operating agency
PUBLICLY OWNED  pursuant to the JCSC Agreement, and shall include all waste water treatment
TREATMENT WORKS facilities of the City of Davenport and of the JCSC constituent communities. This
(POTW):         definition includes any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment,
                conveying, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial waste of a
                liquid nature or that convey wastewater to a POTW, regardless of ownership.
RADIOLOGICAL    Any prohibited radiological waste as defined in IAC 641-40.72, 641-40.88 and 641-40
WASTE:          Appendix B, Table III.
SAMPLING
CHAMBER OR      A device or structure suitable and appropriate to permit sampling and flow
SAMPLING        measurement of a wastewater stream to determine compliance with this ordinance.
MAINTENANCE
HOLE:
                Substantial physical damage to property, damage to a pretreatment facility causing
SEVERE PROPERTY it to become inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources,
DAMAGE:         which can reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a Bypass. Severe
                property damage does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
SEWAGE:         Means and includes wastewater.
                Sewers, intercepting sewers, pipes or conduits, pumping stations, force mains, and
SEWAGE SYSTEM:  all other constructions, devices and appliances appurtenant thereto used for
                collecting or conducting sewage to a point of treatment or ultimate disposal.
SHALL:          Imposes a duty.
                Except as provided in paragraphs (4) of this Section:
                (1)   An Industrial User subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
                (2)   All waste haulers;
                (3)   An industrial user that:
                   (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of process
                wastewater (excludes sanitary, non-contact cooling water and boiler blowdown
                water);
                   (b)   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up 5% or more of the
                average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment plant or;
                   (c)   Is designated as such by the City on the basis that it contributes a
                discharge that has a reasonable potential to adversely affect any of the POTW
SIGNIFICANT     operations by causing interference or pass through at the POTW, violates any
INDUSTRIAL      pretreatment standard, or violates any pretreatment requirements.
USER/           (4)   The City may determine that an Industrial user subject to categorical
SIGNIFICANT     Pretreatment Standards is a Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User rather than
USER:           a Significant Industrial User on a finding that the Industrial User never
                discharges more than 100 gallons per day (gpd) of total categorical wastewater
                (excluding sanitary, non- contact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater, unless
                specifically included in the Pretreatment Standard) and the following conditions
                are met:
                   (a)   The industrial user, prior to the City finding, has consistently complied
                with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards and requirements;
                   (b)   The industrial user annually submits the certification statement required
                in Section
                8-2C-12 of this chapter or 40 CFR 403.12(q), together with any additional
                information necessary to support the certification statement; and
                   (c)   The industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated
                wastewater.
SLUDGE:         The solids separated from the liquids during the wastewater treatment process.
                Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any pollutant,
                measured using a grab or composite sample, is more than five (5.0) times the
                allowable concentration as set forth in sections 8-2B-2 and 8-2B-3 of this chapter
SLUG OR SLUG    or in a user's most recent wastewater discharge permit or exceeds a slug
LOAD:           concentration level specified in a wastewater discharge permit. A discharge with pH
                outside the allowable range by more than one standard unit (S.U.) or a flow rate in
                excess of two (2.0) times the maximum flow limit established in a wastewater
                discharge permit shall also be a slug.
STANDARD        A classification pursuant to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued
INDUSTRIAL      by the Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget, most
CLASSIFICATION  recent edition.
(SIC):
                The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition of Standard Methods for
STANDARD        the Examination of Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public
METHODS:        Health Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Water Environment
                Federation.
STATE:          State of Iowa.
STORM SEWER:    A sewer, which carries stormwater, surface water and drainage but excludes sewage
                and industrial waste other than unpolluted cooling water.
T:              When used as a portion of a chemical name, shall designate "total" such as in
                "cyanide T" where "T" means "total" cyanide.
TKN:            The total kjeldahl nitrogen concentration expressed in mg/l as determined using EPA
                methods or standard methods.
TOTAL METALS:   The sum of the concentration of metals specified in a wastewater discharge permit.
TOTAL SUSPENDED The portion of total solids retained by a filter using EPA methods or standard
SOLIDS (TSS):   methods.
TOTAL TOXIC     The summation of all quantified values greater than 0.01 milligrams per liter for
ORGANICS:       the toxic organics as specified in the applicable regulation.
TOXIC           Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed in 40 CFR Part 403 Appendix B.
POLLUTANT:
                Water containing none of the following: free or emulsified oil and grease;
UNPOLLUTED      substances that may impart taste, odor or color characteristics; volatile,
WATER:          explosive, toxic or poisonous substances in suspension or solution; explosive,
                odorous or otherwise obnoxious gases. Such water shall not contain more than 25 mg/
                l of suspended solids, and not more than 25 mg/l of BOD.
                An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance
                with pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
UPSET:          user. An Upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by operational
                error, improperly designed pretreatment facilities, inadequate pretreatment
                facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
USER OR
INDUSTRIAL      A source of discharge into a POTW from any source other than a domestic user.
USER:
WASTE HAULER:   A private contractor licensed by the State of Iowa and permitted by the City to
                deliver wastewater to the POTW.
WASTEWATER      The document or documents issued to a user by the City in accordance with the terms
DISCHARGE       of this chapter.
PERMIT:
WASTEWATER,     A combination of the liquid and water carried waste from residences, commercial
ALSO TERMED     buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
SEWAGE:         groundwater, surface water, and stormwater as may be present, whether treated or
                untreated, which is contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
                All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, water courses, waterways, wells, springs,
WATER OF THE    reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage systems and all other bodies or
STATE:          accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or
                private, which are contained within, flow through or border upon the State of Iowa
                or any portion thereof.
WATER POLLUTION The Water Pollution Control Plant Manager of the Davenport Wastewater Facilities or
CONTROL PLANT   his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
MANAGER:
 
8-2-4: ADMINISTRATION:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the director shall administer, implement,
and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or duties
imposed upon the director may be delegated by the director to other city
personnel. (2008 Code § 31-37; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2-5: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTION:
   A.   Right Of Entry: In order to ascertain whether the purpose of this
chapter, and any permit or order issued hereunder, is being met and whether the
user is complying with all requirements thereof, the director or the director's
representatives bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, testing, records examination and copying, and the
performance of any additional duties. This shall include the right to set up,
on the user's property, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling,
inspection, compliance monitoring, or metering operations in order to implement
and enforce this section. (2008 Code § 31-106)
   B.   Search Warrants: If the director has been refused access to a building,
structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or
there is a need to inspect and/or sample as a part of a routine inspection and
sampling program of the city designed to verify compliance with this chapter or
any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health,
safety and welfare of the community, the director may request that the legal
department, city of Bettendorf, seek issuance of a search warrant. (2008 Code §
31-107)
   C.   Indemnity Of User: While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in this chapter, the director or the director's
representatives shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the user, and the user shall be held harmless for injury or
death to the city employees and the city shall indemnify the user against loss
or damage to its property by city employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the user and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as any of such as may
be caused by negligence of the user, its agents or employees to maintain safe
conditions. (2008 Code § 31-108; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2-6: COMPREHENSIVE SEWER SERVICE CHARGES - ENUMERATED:
Every person whose premises are served by connection to the sanitary sewer
system of the city, either directly or indirectly, shall pay to the city a
comprehensive sewer service charge for the use of and for services supplied by
the wastewater facilities of the city, which charges shall consist of:
   A.   A basic user charge;
   B.   A surcharge for the O&M of the wastewater treatment plant for wastes
contributed of strengths greater than domestic wastewater. All users
contributing wastewater containing excess BOD or TSS concentrations shall be
assessed a surcharge, which shall be in addition to the rates and charges
ordinarily billed to such users for sewer use.
   C.   A customer charge. (2008 Code § 31-115; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2-7: SEWER UTILITY RATES:
The rates for the comprehensive sewer service charges shall be as follows:
   A.   For Basic User Charge. The basic user charge shall be based on the
quantity of flow estimated or actual flow of wastewater recorded by meters. The
unit charge for wastewater measured in one hundred (100) cubic feet shall be
computed as follows:
      1.   Unit Cost: The unit cost per one hundred (100) cubic feet shall be
determined by dividing the anticipated budget for operation and maintenance of
the wastewater treatment plant and the sanitary sewer system including debt
service and anticipated, current year capital improvements by the estimated
quantity of flow billed to all users of the sanitary sewer system.
   B.   For Surcharge: The surcharge for the O&M cost of the wastewater
treatment plant shall be collected from those users who contribute wastes which
strengths are greater than domestic wastewater. These users shall be sampled,
and the sample analyzed at least once per month.
      1.   Monthly Excess BOD: The monthly excess BOD, expressed in milligrams
per liter, shall be calculated by subtracting the BOD of domestic wastewater
(two hundred fifty (250) milligrams per liter) from the monthly average BOD of
a user. If the value is less than zero, zero shall be used to compute the
average of excess BOD.
      2.   BOD Surcharge Amount: The surcharge for BOD shall be calculated by
multiplying the excess BOD value by the unit BOD cost per pound.
      3.   Monthly Excess SS: The monthly excess SS, expressed in milligrams
per liter, shall be calculated by subtracting the SS of domestic wastewater
(300 milligrams per liter) from the monthly average SS of a user. If the value
is less than zero, zero shall be used to compute the average of excess SS.
      4.   SS Surcharge Amount: The surcharge for SS shall be calculated by
multiplying the excess SS value by the unit SS cost per pound. The total
surcharge shall then be a summation of the surcharge for BOD and the surcharge
for SS.
   C.   Customer Charge:
      1.   The cost of determining the amount due from each user and the
collecting of same shall be borne by the user. Each user shall be billed on a
regular basis, i.e., monthly or quarterly, for the amount of the comprehensive
sewer service charges.
      2.   Each regular bill shall be increased by a charge to defray the cost
of computing and mailing the bill. The cost per bill will be determined by
dividing the anticipated budget by the total number of bills mailed to the
users.
   D.   Measurement By Meters: Such rates or charges shall be based upon the
amount of water supplied by the Iowa-American Water Company, as shown by the
water meter readings of that company.
   E.   Special Rates; Grounds; Approval:
      1.   Where in the judgment of the council, special conditions surround
the use of water to the extent that the application of the comprehensive sewer
user charge or method of measurement would be inequitable or unfair to either
the city or the user, a special rate or method of measurement shall be
established by the city. Such rates or methods of measurement shall be subject
to approval by resolution of the council. In such cases, the city council may
require that water consumed on the premises concerned shall be separately
metered at the expense of the user, who shall also pay the cost of computing
the sewer service credit and administration of the program resulting therefrom.
      2.   In such cases where a major portion of the water consumed by a
single-family residential user is not discharged into or does not reach the
sanitary sewer system, the following shall apply:
         a.   Such water so consumed shall be metered by a separate water meter
installed at the expense of the owner. To receive a sewer service credit, water
usage from a separate meter shall be read by the user and reported to the
City's Finance Department no later than December 1 of each year. Water metering
systems existing prior to May 18, 1976 that conflict with this section may be
retained. Replacement systems for those existing prior to May 18, 1976 shall be
brought into compliance with the provisions herein. Any system installed after
May 18, 1976 shall be in compliance with this section. Installation of the
water metering system must be in accord with the plumbing code. Application for
a separate water meter shall be made to the Bettendorf building division.
         b.   The fee for initial inspection upon installation of a separate
water meter shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00). This fee shall cover all
costs associated with inspection of the installation plus computing the sewer
service credit for the first year. After the first reading, the annual fee for
computing the sewer service credit and administering the program shall be
deducted from the credit. The annual fee for computing the sewer service credit
and administering the program after the first reading shall be: One hundred
dollars ($100.00).
         c.   Participation in the program shall be terminated if, during any
year, the fee for computing the sewer service credit and administering the
program should equal or exceed the resulting credit total. Under this
condition, a notice of termination shall be sent to the customer by ordinary
mail. Such termination shall become null and void if a reinstatement is made to
the city clerk's office within thirty (30) days of the date of the letter and
the city is reimbursed for the difference between the fee and the charge for
the water used. Thereafter, anyone terminated from the program may be
reinstated by making reapplication to the Bettendorf building division and
conforming to the following conditions:
            (1)   The existing or proposed water metering system shall be made
to conform with subsection E2a of this section for installations completed
after May 18, 1976.
            (2)   The fees as set forth in subsection E2b of this section have
been paid. Anyone requesting a special reading shall be charged a special
reading fee of thirty dollars ($30.00). A special reading is any requested
reading which is not the initial reading. Such fee shall be payable in advance
and shall not be deducted from the credit.
   F.   Replacement Component, Calculation; Use: The replacement component
shall be fifteen percent (15%) of the operation and maintenance (O&M) budget
approved for the wastewater treatment plant in each fiscal year. The
replacement component shall be calculated in each fiscal year and shall be
added to the total O&M budget for the wastewater treatment plant for such year.
Any portion of a replacement component which has not been used in a fiscal year
shall not lapse, but shall be retained together with any interest accrued
thereon; shall be carried forward and combined with any unused portion of any
other replacement component for the current fiscal year, to be used to replace
equipment at the wastewater treatment plant. A replacement component and any
unused portion of a prior replacement component, plus any interest thereon,
which has been carried forward as herein provided, shall be used only to
replace equipment at the wastewater treatment plant. The O&M budget for the
wastewater treatment plant plus the replacement component for the current
fiscal year shall be used as the anticipated budget for calculating
comprehensive sewer service charges for the use of the wastewater treatment
plant.
   G.   Date Due, Penalty: All comprehensive sewer service charges are due and
payable thirty (30) days following the date of billing. When a bill becomes
past due, a late charge equal to ten percent (10%) of the comprehensive sewer
service charge shall be added to the original bill and a new bill shall be
mailed to the user. The revised bill is due and payable fifteen (15) days
following the date the first bill became due and payable.
   H.   Rate Charged:
      1.   Effective April 1, 2025, the comprehensive sewer service charge, as
provided in this section, to be paid by the users of the wastewater treatment
facilities of the city and billed beginning April 1, 2025, is hereby
established as four dollars and twenty-seven cents ($4.27) per one hundred
(100) cubic feet of metered water usage plus a six dollar ($6.00) quarterly
handling charge per billing.
      2.   The comprehensive sewer service charges for residential users
connected to the sanitary sewer but who do not receive water through a metered
service of the Iowa-American Water Company shall be billed by the city clerk to
each dwelling unit user every three (3) months and is hereby established as one
hundred one dollars and forty-one cents ($101.41) plus a six dollar ($6.00)
handling charge per billing for a total cost of one hundred seven dollars and
forty-one cents ($107.41) every three months beginning with bills mailed April
1, 2025. (Ord. 05-16, 3-15-2016; amd. Ord. 06-19, 3-19-2019; Ord. 03-20, 3-17-
2020; Ord. 06-21, 3-16-2021; Ord. 12-21, 7-6-2021; Ord. 04-22, 3-15-2022; Ord.
10-22; 7-5-2022; Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023; Ord. 09-23, 3-21-2023; Ord. 09-23, 3-21-
2023; Ord. 10-24, 3-19-2024; Ord. 06-25, 4-1-2025)
8-2-8: SERVICE CHARGE BILLING; DELINQUENCIES; COLLECTIONS:
   A.   Billing Procedure: A comprehensive sewer service charge bill may be
sent through the United States mail or by alternative means, notifying the
customer of the amount of the bill, the date the payment is due, and the date
when past due. Failure to receive a bill is not justification for nonpayment.
Regardless of the party to whom the bill is initially directed, the owner of
each parcel of developed land, as shown from public land records of Scott
County, shall be ultimately obligated to pay such fee. If a customer is
underbilled or if no bill is sent for developed land, the City may back bill
for a period of up to three (3) years, but shall not assess penalties for any
delinquency. Similarly, if it is discovered that a customer has been
overbilled, the City may credit the account for a period of up to three (3)
years, but no penalty or interest shall accrue. A ten percent (10%) penalty and
interest charge shall be billed based on the delinquent balance on all monthly
or quarterly billings.
   B.   Delinquent Bills; Lien Against Property: In the event the bill is not
paid, the unpaid amount shall be assessed against the property and become a
lien thereon, payable in the manner of property taxes as provided by State law.
The Clerk shall clarify for taxation purposes, in establishing property liens
to the County Auditor, all delinquent comprehensive sewer service payments. For
the purpose of certification, the comprehensive sewer service payment shall be
designated as delinquent when the same is shown and appears on the books
carrying comprehensive sewer service payments that have been unpaid for a
period of thirty (30) days following its due date.
   C.   Billing Statement; Time Of Payment: The comprehensive sewer service
charge may be billed on a common statement and collected along with other City
utility services, usually on a quarterly basis.
   D.   Order Suspension Of Service: The City Council may order suspension of
service to those premises for which the comprehensive sewer user charge is
delinquent.
   E.   User Of Private Or Quasi-Public Water Supply: Where the user is an
operator of a private or quasi-public water supply, failure to pay usage shall
be subject to the same regulations as delinquency, late charge and
certification of property lien, as are provided for in subsections A and B of
this section. (Ord. 19-13, 8-20-2013; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2-9: SEWER CONNECTION FEES; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
   A.   Schedule Of Fees: Pursuant to the authority granted by the Code of
Iowa, the City hereby establishes the following schedule of sewer connection
fees to be paid to the City by every person whose premises will be served by
connection to the sanitary sewer system, which fees shall be due and payable
when a sewer connection application is filed with the Director.
SCHEDULE OF FEES FOR CONNECTIONS TO THE
MUNICIPAL SANITARY UTILITIES OF
BETTENDORF, IOWA
      1.   Residential Properties:
         a.   For single-family, attached or detached, and multiple-family
dwellings, the connection fee shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per
bedroom or den, effective January 1, 2024. The connection fee per bedroom or
den shall increase annually as follows through 2026:
            (1)   January 1, 2025, $200.00.
            (2)   January 1, 2026, $220.00.
         b.   For mobile home or trailer courts, the connection fee shall be
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per trailer lot or per mobile home,
whichever is greater, effective January 1, 2024. The connection fee per trailer
lot or mobile home shall increase annually as follows through 2026:
            (1)   January 1, 2025, $280.00.
            (2)   January 1, 2026, $300.00.
         c.   For hotels, motels, tourist homes, and rooming houses, exclusive
of restaurant facilities included as a part thereof, the connection fee shall
be seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per lodging room, effective January 1, 2024.
The connection fee per lodging room shall increase annually as follows through
2026:
            (1)   January 1, 2025, $80.00.
            (2)   January 1, 2026, $85.00.
         d.   For boarding homes, nursing homes, and retirement homes, the
connection fee shall be one hundred twenty dollars ($120.00) per bed, effective
January 1, 2024. The connection fee per bed shall increase annually as follows
through 2026:
            (1)   January 1, 2025, $140.00.
            (2)   January 1, 2026, $150.00.
         e.   For hospitals, the connection fee shall be two hundred twenty-
five dollars ($225.00) per bed, effective January 1, 2024. The connection fee
per hospital bed shall increase annually as follows through 2026:
            (1)   January 1, 2025, $275.00.
            (2)   January 1, 2026, $300.00.
         f.   For buildings or properties used for lodge rooms, fraternal
organizations and churches, the connection fee shall be five hundred dollars
($500.00).
      2.   Commercial Uses: Buildings or properties used for commercial uses,
except hospitals, churches, hotels, motels, tourist homes, rooming houses,
boarding homes, nursing homes and retirement homes, permitted by
title 11, chapter 7 of this code ("zoning ordinance of Bettendorf, Iowa-1959",
ordinance 431):
         a.   For buildings used for such commercial purposes, except
restaurants, drive-in restaurants, bars or cocktail lounges, automobile service
stations, and car washes, the connection fee shall be seventy-five dollars
($75.00) per one thousand (1,000) square feet or fraction thereof of floor area
inside the exterior walls, excluding the basement area, effective January 1,
2024. The connection fee for these uses shall increase annually as follows
through 2026:
            (1)   January 1, 2025, $80.00.
            (2)   January 1, 2026, $85.00.
         b.   For restaurants, drive-in restaurants, and bars or cocktail
lounges, the connection fee shall be thirty dollars ($30.00) per seat,
effective January 1, 2024. Where the number of proposed seats is not known, a
factor of fifteen (15) square feet per seat shall be used. The connection fee
for restaurants, drive-in restaurants, and bars or cocktail lounges shall
increase annually as follows through 2026:
            (1)   January 1, 2025, $35.00.
            (2)   January 1, 2026, $40.00.
         c.   For automobile service stations without car washes, the
connection fee shall be four hundred forty-five dollars ($445.00).
         d.   For automobile service stations with car washes, the connection
fee shall be one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
         e.   For car washes, the connection fee shall be one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per bay.
         f.   The sewer connection fee for each and every building comprising
part of a commercial center or planned unit development shall be considered as
a separate building and shall be computed and paid separately in accordance
with the provisions of this schedule. A "building site", as defined for the
purpose of this section, is a structure that satisfies both the following
criteria:
            (1)   Does not share a common wall with another structure; and
            (2)   Is under a single ownership.
      3.   Industrial Uses: Buildings or property used for industrial uses, as
defined in title 11, chapter 8 of this code ("zoning ordinance of Bettendorf,
Iowa-1959", ordinance 431):
         a.   The connection fee shall be one hundred thirty dollars ($130.00)
per one thousand (1,000) square feet or fraction thereof of floor area inside
the exterior walls, exclusive of any industrial wastes, effective January 1,
2024. The connection fee per one thousand (1,000) square feet of fraction
thereof of floor area inside the exterior wall, exclusive of any industrial
wastes, shall increase annually as follows through 2026.
            (1)   January 1, 2025 $150.00.
            (2)   January 1, 2026 $200.00.
         b.   The connection fee for industrial uses with industrial wastes
shall be determined by the city council after recommendation by the director.
      4.   New Building Replacing Existing Building: Should an existing
building which has a connection to the public sewer be demolished or moved and
a new building be constructed in lieu thereof and should the same sewer tap or
building lateral be used, the connection fee shall be the difference between
the old usage fee and the fee required for the new construction; provided,
however, that no sewer connection refund shall be allowed. This provision shall
only apply when a building permit for a new building is obtained either at the
same time or within one hundred eighty (180) days of the demolition permit or
house moving permit. (2008 Code § 31-126)
   B.   Disposition Of Funds: Sewer connection fees shall be remitted to the
city of Bettendorf at the office of the city clerk, and the funds so collected
shall be kept in separate and distinct part of the sanitation fund to be known
as the "sewer connection fund", and shall only be disbursed and used for the
purposes authorized by the code of Iowa. (2008 Code § 31-127; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   Fees Required For Private Connections: Connection fees shall be
required when connection is made to a private sanitary sewer, and such
connection shall conform to all requirements of this chapter. (2008 Code § 31-
128; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023; Ord. 04-24, 2-6-2024)
8-2-10: CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION:
Any information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permits, and monitoring programs, and from the director's inspection
and sampling activities, shall be available to the public without restriction,
unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the director, that the release of such information would
divulge information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection
as trade secrets under applicable state law. Any such request must be asserted
at the time of submission of the information or data. When requested and
demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that such information should be
held confidential, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets
or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public,
but shall be made available immediately upon request to governmental agencies
for uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics and other "effluent data" as defined in 40 CFR
2.302 will not be recognized as confidential information and will be available
to the public without restrictions. (2008 Code § 31-125; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-7-
2023)
8-2-11: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Discharge Of Sewage Prohibited; Exception: It is unlawful to discharge
to any natural outlet within the city or any area under the jurisdiction of the
city any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter. (2008
Code § 31-38)
   B.   Construction Of Privies Prohibited: Except as provided in this chapter,
it is unlawful to construct, use, or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(2008 Code § 31-39)
   C.   Toilet Facilities And Connection To Public Sanitary Sewer Required: The
owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city and
abutting on any street, alley, easement or right of way in which there is now
located a public sanitary sewer, shall, at his expense, install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and connect such facilities directly with the public
sanitary sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (2008 Code §
31-40)
   D.   Connection Requirements And Restrictions:
      1.   The provisions of this section apply only to those lots or parcels
of real estate abutting on and adjacent to the public sanitary sewer system,
and shall apply and be enforceable upon the owners of all other lots or parcels
of real estate within the city as soon as the public sanitary sewer system is
extended and constructed abutting upon or adjacent to their property.
      2.   No private or quasi-public sewage treatment and disposal system
shall be installed where a public sanitary sewer is abutting on or adjacent to
the lot or parcel of real estate.
      3.   When a public sanitary sewer is abutting on or adjacent to the lot
or parcel of real estate, any building then served by a private sewage disposal
system, except an outside privy, shall connect to such sanitary sewer when, in
the opinion of the Scott County board of health, same is necessary for public
health, safety or welfare.
      4.   Unless otherwise specifically authorized by resolution of the city
council, outside privies must be abandoned and connection made to the public
sanitary sewer within one year after the city council, by resolution, accepts
such public sanitary sewer system.
      5.   All connections to the public sanitary sewer must be made in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      6.   All abandoned private or quasi-public sewage treatment and disposal
systems shall be cleaned, disinfected, filled and otherwise abandoned by the
property owner, subdivider or homeowners' association according to the laws,
rules and regulations of the Scott County board of health and the state of
Iowa. (2008 Code § 31-41)
   E.   Private Or Quasi-Public Sewage Treatment And Disposal:
      1.   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available as mentioned in
subsections C and D of this section, the building lateral shall be connected to
a private or quasi-public sewage treatment and disposal system complying with
all applicable standards and requirements of the Scott County board of health
and the state of Iowa. The building lateral to such disposal system shall exit
at the side of the building for possible later use when connection is made to a
public sanitary sewer.
      2.   The owner, subdivider or homeowners' association shall operate,
repair and maintain such sewage disposal facilities in a safe, healthful and
sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
      3.   Private or quasi-public sanitary treatment and disposal systems
shall be installed in accordance with these regulations prior to temporary
occupancy of the building connected to such systems.
      4.   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Scott
County board of health and the laws of the state and federal government. (2008
Code § 31-42; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2-12: BROKEN SEWER LINE; PROPERTY OWNER TO REPAIR:
   A.   Duty To Repair: It shall be the duty of any property owner to repair a
broken building sewer lateral up to and including the tap or intersecting
fitting; this does not apply to a public sanitary sewer main.
   B.   Repair By City; Assessment Of Cost: In the event that a building sewer
lateral is not repaired within a reasonable length of time, to be determined by
the administrative authority, the city may repair same and assess the actual
cost thereof against the property. (2008 Code § 31-1; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-7-
2023)
8-2-13: PROHIBITED ACTS:
No unauthorized person shall in any manner break, damage, destroy, or tamper
with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is part of the wastewater
facilities. (2008 Code § 31-105; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
ARTICLE A. BUILDING LATERALS AND CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Permit Required
8-2A-2: Classes Of Permits; Application
8-2A-3: Issuance Of Building Lateral Permit
8-2A-4: Costs And Expenses
8-2A-5: Separate Laterals
8-2A-6: Old Building Laterals
8-2A-7: Location Of Connection
8-2A-8: Temporary Connections To Interceptor Sewers
8-2A-9: Specifications And Standards For Pipes And Joints
8-2A-10: Separation From Water Lines; Closing Unused Junctions
8-2A-11: Minimum Diameters Of Building Sewers
8-2A-12: Minimum Grades; House Traps
8-2A-13: Trenching And Backfilling Requirements
8-2A-14: Permit Revocation
8-2A-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use, alter,
or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof without first obtaining a
written permit from the director. (2008 Code § 31-47; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-7-
2023)
8-2A-2: CLASSES OF PERMITS; APPLICATION:
   A.   Classes: There shall be two (2) classes of building lateral permits:
      1.   For nonindustrial users; and
      2.   For industrial users.
   B.   Application For Permit: In either case, the owner or his agent shall
make application on a form furnished by the city. The permit application shall
be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the director. (2008 Code § 31-48; amd. Ord. 06-23,
2-7-2023)
8-2A-3: ISSUANCE OF BUILDING LATERAL PERMIT:
A building lateral permit shall only be issued, and a sewer connection shall
only be allowed, if it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the director
that the downstream wastewater facilities, including sewers, pump stations and
wastewater treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately
and efficiently handle the additional anticipated wastewater load. (2008 Code §
31-49; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2A-4: COSTS AND EXPENSES:
   A.   Costs Borne By Property Owner: All costs and expenses incidental to the
installation, ownership, use, operation, maintenance, connection and repair of
the building lateral shall be borne by the owner of the property served
thereby.
   B.   Nonliability Of City: Such owner shall indemnify the city from any
loss, cost or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the use,
ownership, operation, maintenance or installation of the building lateral.
(2008 Code § 31-50; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2A-5: SEPARATE LATERALS:
A separate and independent building lateral shall be provided for every
building, except that where one building stands to the rear of another on an
interior lot and no public or private sanitary sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or
driveway, the building lateral from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building lateral, but the city
shall not be liable for any damage caused by or resulting from any such single
connection. (2008 Code § 31-51; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2A-6: OLD BUILDING LATERALS:
Old building laterals shall not be used in connection with new buildings unless
they are found, on examination and test by the director, to meet all
requirements of this article. (2008 Code § 31-52; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2A-7: LOCATION OF CONNECTION:
   A.   Each building lateral connection shall be made into an existing wye or
tee designated for that property. Any connection not made at the designated wye
or tee in the main sewer shall be made under the supervision and direction of
the director.
   B.   Whenever a tap is required into an existing pipe, the contractor shall
comply with the City of Bettendorf standard specifications and drawings.
   C.   The building lateral shall be brought to the building at an elevation
below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building sewer is too
low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such
building sewer shall be lifted by a means which is approved by the director and
discharged to the building lateral.
   D.   The applicant for a building lateral permit shall notify the director
when the building lateral is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sanitary sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
director.
   E.   All excavations for building lateral installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. All
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a
manner satisfactory to the director. (2008 Code § 31-53; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-7-
2023)
8-2A-8: TEMPORARY CONNECTIONS TO INTERCEPTOR SEWERS:
Building laterals shall not connect directly to an interceptor sewer. A
temporary connection may be made upon special application by the property owner
to the director on forms provided for that purpose. The applicant shall pay a
sewer connection fee as required in section
8-2-6 of this chapter and a fee for recording the application at the office of
the recorder of Scott County. Such application shall provide as follows:
   A.   Connection shall be made at a manhole.
   B.   Such connection shall not affect the rights of the city to assess
subject property for a local sewer serving the lot containing the building.
   C.   The applicant, his heirs, successors and assigns shall, at his expense,
disconnect from the interceptor sewer and reconnect to the local sewer within
sixty (60) days from city council acceptance of such local sewer. (2008 Code §
31-54; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2A-9: SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS FOR PIPES AND JOINTS:
All house sewers shall be constructed in accordance with the City of Bettendorf
standard specifications. (2008 Code § 31-55; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2A-10: SEPARATION FROM WATER LINES; CLOSING UNUSED JUNCTIONS:
   A.   Water service lines and building laterals shall be separated ten feet
(10') horizontally throughout their length. Where conditions render such
separation infeasible, such laterals and water lines may be laid in the same
trench; provided, that the water line shall be laid on a bench or on solidly
tamped backfill at least twelve inches (12") above the top of the building
lateral throughout its entire length.
   B.   The ends of all sewers, pipes and junctions when not immediately used
must be closed with appropriate capping materials in accordance with the City
of Bettendorf standard specifications. (2008 Code § 31-56; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-
7-2023)
8-2A-11: MINIMUM DIAMETERS OF BUILDING SEWERS:
No sewer lateral serving an attached or detached single-family dwelling unit
shall be less than four inches (4") in diameter. No building lateral for a
commercial building or a multiple dwelling shall be less than six inches (6")
in diameter. (2008 Code § 31-57; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2A-12: MINIMUM GRADES; HOUSE TRAPS:
All building laterals shall have a grade of not less than one-eighth inch (1/
8") per foot; a grade of one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot shall be used wherever
possible. If the grade of the building lateral from the building to the
sanitary sewer exceeds nine percent (9%), a house trap shall be installed at
the building foundation. (2008 Code § 31-58; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2A-13: TRENCHING AND BACKFILLING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All excavations shall be open trench work unless otherwise authorized
by the director.
   B.   The foundation in the trench shall be formed to prevent any subsequent
settlement of the building lateral. If the foundation is good, firm earth, the
earth shall be pared or moldened to give a full support to the lower one-third
(1/3) of each building lateral. Unstabilized beds or soils which, because of
moisture, have lost their plasticity must be stabilized with a crushed rock
base. Bell holes shall be dug to provide ample space for joints.
   C.   Care must be exercised in backfilling below the centerline of the
building lateral in order to give it proper support. Backfilling trenches and
excavations shall be made immediately after approval of the building lateral or
structure has been made by the director and all tests required by the director
have been completed and approved.
   D.   Backfilling of trenches and excavations in city streets and alleys
shall be in accordance with city specifications for repair of street
excavations. (2008 Code § 31-59; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2A-14: PERMIT REVOCATION:
   A.   All permits to connect with sewers shall be given upon the express
condition that the director may, at any time before the work is completed,
revoke and annul the same, and no party interested shall have a right to claim
damages in consequence of any such permits being revoked or annulled.
   B.   At no time shall a person connect a building lateral into a manhole or
interceptor sewer unless a special permit is obtained from the director,
stating how work shall be done, if the special permit is granted. (2008 Code §
31-60; amd. Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
ARTICLE B. WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2B-1: User Requirements
8-2B-2: Discharge Prohibitions
8-2B-3: Local Limits For Specific Pollutants
8-2B-4: National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
8-2B-5: State Requirements
8-2B-6: City’s Right Of Revision
8-2B-7: Pretreatment
8-2B-8: Dilution Prohibited
8-2B-9: Slug/Spill Control
8-2B-10: Treatment Upsets
8-2B-11: Treatment Bypass
8-2B-1: USER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The following requirements shall apply to all users of the POTW:
      1.   All users shall promptly notify the POTW in advance of any
substantial change in the volume or character of pollutants in their discharge.
      2.   New or increased contributions of pollutants or changes in the
nature of pollutant discharged to the POTW shall require prior approval by the
Water Pollution Control Plant Manager.
      3.   Industrial users shall notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste
Management Division Director, and state hazardous waste authorities in writing
of any discharge into the POTW of a substance, which if otherwise disposed of,
would be a hazardous waste under 40 CFR part 261. The notification shall comply
with the requirements set forth in 40 CFR 403.12(p)
      4.   Introduction or contribution of any pollutants without the notice
and approval required by this section is prohibited. Upon the receipt of notice
required by this section the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager shall within
one hundred eighty (180) days or less approve the discharge if he finds the
proposed discharge meets applicable pretreatment standards and requirements and
would not cause the POTW to violate its NPDES permit. The Water Pollution
Control Plant Manager shall deny permission for the discharge if he finds
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements are not met or the discharge
would cause the POTW to violate its NPDES permit. In lieu of denial of
permission the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager may allow such
contribution or discharge upon conditions, which would not violate applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements and would not cause the POTW to violate
its NPDES permit.
   Any part of this section notwithstanding, upon receipt of the notice
required by this section the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager may require,
in addition to the requirements of this section, that an industrial user obtain
a permit under this chapter. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2B-2: DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS:
The following prohibitions shall apply to all users of the POTW unless the user
is subject to a more restrictive NCPS, IDNR, or wastewater discharge permit
limit. The following substances are prohibited from discharge to the POTW:
   A.   General Prohibitions: No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced
into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through or
interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW whether
or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any other
National, State or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   B.   Specific prohibitions: No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      1.   Pollutants that create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using test methods referenced in 40 CFR 261.21. At no
time shall two successive readings on a meter capable of reading L.E.L. (lower
explosive limit) at the nearest accessible point to the POTW, at the point of
discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW be more than five percent
(5%) nor any single reading greater than ten percent (10%);
      2.   Pollutants which will cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW,
but in no case discharges with pH lower than 5.5 or greater than 12;
      3.   Solid or viscous pollutants which will cause obstruction to the flow
in the POTW resulting in interference. Such pollutants include, but are not
limited to: grease, garbage with particles greater than one-half inch any
dimension, animal tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings,
entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or
marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent
grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastics, tar, asphalt residues from
refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or
polishing waste, or tumbling and de burring stones, and wastewater containing
fat, wax, O&G, or other substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and 650°C);
      4.   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.)
released in a discharge at a flow rate or pollutant concentration which will
cause interference or pass through at the POTW or which constitutes a slug load
as defined in this chapter;
      5.   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference, but in no case wastewater or vapor having a
temperature higher than 150°F (65°C) at the point of introduction into the
POTW; and in no case waste water or vapor which alone or in concert with other
discharges produces a temperature at the POTW treatment plant greater than
104°F (40°C);
      6.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      7.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems or a public nuisance;
      8.   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW;
      9.   Radioactive wastes unless they comply with IAC 641-40.72, 641-40.88
and 641-40 Appendix B, Table III;
      10.   Pollutants causing excessive discoloration (such as, but not
limited to, dye waste and vegetable tanning solutions). (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2B-3: LOCAL LIMITS FOR SPECIFIC POLLUTANTS:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   Dilution: Users shall not increase the use of process water or, in
any way; attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate pretreatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in
the NCPS, or with any other pollutant specific limitation developed by the
City.
      2.   Sample Location: Measurement of pollutant concentrations to
determine compliance shall be made at the point immediately following the
pretreatment facility and before mixture with other waters, unless another
point is designated by the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager. If necessary,
the concentrations so measured shall be recomputed to exclude the effect of any
dilution that is improper using the combined waste stream formula.
   B.   Headworks Limits - Average Mass: The average composite loading of all
users contributing the following specific pollutants to the POTW shall not
exceed the allowable total pounds. The allocation of pollutants between
industrial and nonindustrial sources may be adjusted by the Water Pollution
Control Plant Manager provided that allowable total loading for any pollutant
at the headworks of the POTW treatment plant is not exceeded.
Table 1
Davenport Water Pollution Control Plant 2606 South Concord Street Head Works
Allowable Loading
Pollutant 30 Day Average
Table 1
Davenport Water Pollution Control Plant 2606 South Concord Street Head Works
Allowable Loading
Pollutant     30 Day Average
Al            5405.653 Pounds
As            3.229 Pounds
Ba            NA
Cd            4.892 Pounds
Total Cr      86.373 Pounds
Cu            61.823 Pounds
Fe            682.836 Pounds
Pb            17.432 Pounds
Hg            1.004 Pounds
Mo            44.749 Pounds
Ni            34.532 Pounds
Se            3.828 Pounds
Ag            14.771 Pounds
Zn            125.628 Pounds
Total Phenols 3018.538 Pounds
Total Cyanide 8.408 Pounds
 
Table 2
Davenport Water Pollution Control Lagoon West Locust Street Head Works
Allowable Loading
Pollutant 30 Day Average
Table 2
Davenport Water Pollution Control Lagoon West Locust Street Head Works
Allowable Loading
Pollutant     30 Day Average
Al            NA
As            NA
Ba            NA
Cd            0.002 Pounds
Total Cr      0.062 Pounds
Cu            0.084 Pounds
Fe            NA
Pb            0.011 Pounds
Hg            NA
Mo            NA
Ni            0.072 Pounds
Se            NA
Ag            0.002 Pounds
Zn            8.338 Pounds
Total Phenols NA s
Total Cyanide 0.002 Pounds
 
Table 3
Davenport Water Pollution Control Plant 2606 South Concord Street Tier 1
Significant Industrial User Local Limits
Pollutant Kraft Oscar Mayer Leiner Davis   Nestle Purina
          30 Day Average    30 Day Average 30 Day Average
Table 3
Davenport Water Pollution Control Plant 2606 South Concord Street Tier 1
Significant Industrial User Local Limits
Pollutant     Kraft Oscar Mayer Leiner Davis   Nestle Purina
              30 Day Average    30 Day Average 30 Day Average
Al            NA                NA             NA
As            0.17 Pounds       0.04 Pounds    0.10 Pounds
Ba            NA                NA             NA
Cd            0.080 Pounds      0.02 Pounds    0.05 Pounds
Total Cr      0.080 Pounds      0.07 Pounds    0.05 Pounds
Cu            0.17 Pounds       0.33 Pounds    0.10 Pounds
Fe            NA                NA             NA
Pb            0.17 Pounds       0.04 Pounds    0.10 Pounds
Hg            NA                NA             NA
Mo            NA                NA             NA
Ni            0.090 Pounds      0.04 Pounds    0.05 Pounds
Se            0.17 Pounds       0.04 Pounds    0.10 Pounds
Ag            0.08 Pounds       0.02 Pounds    0.05 Pounds
Zn            1.07 Pounds       1.63 Pounds    0.34 Pounds
Total Phenols 0.51 Pounds       0.06 Pounds    0.20 Pounds
Total Cyanide 0.10 Pounds       0.03 Pounds    0.06 Pounds
 
Table 4
Davenport Water Pollution Control Plant 2606 South Concord Street Tier 2
Significant Industrial User Local Limits
Pollutant 30 Day Average
Table 4
Davenport Water Pollution Control Plant 2606 South Concord Street Tier 2
Significant Industrial User Local Limits
Pollutant     30 Day Average
Al            NA
As            0.141 mg/L
Ba            NA
Cd            0.242 mg/L
Total Cr      4.441 mg/L
Cu            2.989 mg/L
Fe            NA
Pb            0.629 mg/L
Hg            NA
Mo            NA
Ni            1.770 mg/L
Se            0.121 mg/L
Ag            0.776 mg/L
Zn            5.636 mg/L
Total Phenols 115.828 mg/L
Total Cyanide 0.448 mg/L
 
Table 5
Davenport Water Pollution Control Lagoon West Locust Street Significant
Industrial User Local Limits
Pollutant 30 Day Average
Table 5
Davenport Water Pollution Control Lagoon West Locust Street Significant
Industrial User Local Limits
Pollutant     30 Day Average
Al            NA
As            NA
Ba            NA
Cd            0.024 mg/l
Total Cr      0.942 mg/l
Cu            1.282 mg/l
Fe            NA
Pb            0.173 mg/l
Hg            NA
Mo            NA
Ni            1.099 mg/l
Se            NA
Ag            0.029 mg/l
Zn            5.00 mg/l
Total Phenols NA
Total Cyanide 0.027 mg/l
 
   C.   Discharge Concentration Limits and Review Criteria:
      1.   The admission into the POTW of any materials, water or waste having
a pollutant concentration or poundage greater than the limits in Tables 1
through 5 above, or containing pollutants not listed herein, shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager. After
review of the proposed discharges, the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager
may:
         a.   Reject the waste for reasons consistent with section
8-2-1C.
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable pollutant concentration for
discharge to the POTW.
         c.   Require control of the quantities and rates of discharge of the
water or waste.
         d.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treatment
of water and waste or any combination thereof.
         e.   Reduce the maximum or average mass loading of present and
prospective individual users on any reasonable prorated basis to meet headworks
loading limits at the POTW treatment plant.
         f.   Require the user to obtain a wastewater discharge permit and be
subject to any of the rules and regulations contained therein.
         g.   Require the user to meet local limits or NCPS in cases where
local limits are more restrictive than NCPS provided that headworks loading
limits are met.
         h.   Initiate enforcement action in response to any noncompliance with
this section using the enforcement procedures outlined in this section.
         i.   Take any combination of steps (a) through (h) as appropriate.
      2.   Users discharging wastewater to the POTW having pollutant
concentrations or flows greater than the limits in Table 6 shall be considered
non-domestic for purposes of sewer charges and may be regulated or permitted by
the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager as appropriate:
 
Table 6
Domestic Pollutant Limits
Pollutant Domestic Limit
BOD       250 mg/l
TSS       300 mg/l
 
   D.   No provision of this section shall be construed to provide lesser
discharge standards than are presently or may hereafter be imposed and required
by USEPA or IDNR, nor to allow the average allowable total loading for any
pollutant at the headworks of the POTW treatment plant to be exceeded. (Ord.
06-23, 2-7-2023; amd. Ord. 15-24, 5-21-2024)
8-2B-4: NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Users subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards (NCPS) as
contained in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405 471 or future
promulgated regulations shall comply with the standards and applicable
reporting requirements under 40 CFR 403.12.
   B.   New sources of categorical discharge shall meet NCPS in the shortest
feasible time but in no case longer than 90 days from the commencement of
discharge. Failure to comply shall be a violation of this ordinance and subject
the user to enforcement action.
   C.   The POTW shall notify all known affected categorical users of the
applicable reporting requirements under 40 CFR 403.12. Failure of the POTW to
notify the User shall not relieve the user of the duty, if any, to comply with
NCPS.
   D.   Where a categorical Pretreatment Standard is expressed only in terms of
either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the Water
Pollution Control Plant Manager may impose equivalent concentrations or mass
limits in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6 (c).
   E.   When the limits in a categorical Pretreatment Standard are expressed
only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit of production, the Water Pollution
Control Plant Manager may convert the limits to equivalent limitations
expressed either as mass of pollutant discharge per day or effluent
concentration for purposes of calculating effluent limitations applicable to
individual Industrial Users in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(c)(3) and (4).
   F.   When wastewater subject to a categorical Pretreatment Standard is mixed
with wastewater not regulated by the same Standard, the Water Pollution Control
Plant Manager shall impose an alternate limit in accordance with 40 CFR 403.
(e).
   G.   A Categorical User may obtain a net/gross adjustment to a categorical
Pretreatment Standard in accordance with 40 CFR 403.15. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2B-5: STATE REQUIREMENTS:
State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case where
they are more stringent than USEPA or City requirements and limitations unless
allowed by the state. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2B-6: CITY’S RIGHT OF REVISION:
The City reserves the right to establish more stringent limitations or
requirements on discharges to the POTW than those contained in this chapter if
deemed necessary to comply with the purpose and policy objectives presented in
section
8-2-1. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2B-7: PRETREATMENT:
   A.   A user discharging, or with potential to discharge, any waste into the
POTW as set forth in Article B shall be required by the Water Pollution Control
Plant Manager to construct, install and operate, at the user's sole expense,
such pretreatment facilities as may be required in order to:
      1.   Reduce the objectionable characteristics or constituents to within
the maximum limits provided for in Article B;
      2.   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such wastewater;
      3.   Reduce the pollutants to such concentration and flows as may be
contained in the user's wastewater discharge permit;
         a.   New industrial users discharging into the POTW will be required
to design and operate their pretreatment facilities to meet the domestic
pollutant limits in Table 6.
         b.   Existing industrial users planning significant modifications to
their facility or discharge to the POTW will be required to install and operate
pretreatment facilities to meet the domestic pollutant limits in Table 6.
      4.   Prevent the discharge of liquid waste containing O&G, sand in
excessive amounts, any flammable waste, or other harmful pollutants. All traps
or similar devices shall be of a type and capacity needed to perform
effectively and shall be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. All traps or devices shall be provided and maintained in efficient
operating condition at all times. Materials removed from traps shall be
considered unacceptable for disposal at the POTW treatment plant unless
specifically approved by the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager.
   B.   All plans, specifications, technical operating data and other
information pertinent to the proposed operation and maintenance of pretreatment
facilities shall be reviewed and approved by the Water Pollution Control Plant
Manager prior to construction. Design and installation of such facilities shall
be subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, chapters and laws,
including local zoning regulations. The review and approval of such plans and
operating procedures shall, in no way, relieve the user from the responsibility
of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the
Water Pollution Control Plant Manager under the provisions of this chapter. Any
subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operations shall
be reported to and be acceptable to the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager
prior to the user's initiations of the changes.
   C.   Users shall continuously maintain all pretreatment facilities required
by this chapter in satisfactory and effective operating condition at the sole
expense of such user.
   D.   No provision contained in this chapter shall be construed to prevent or
prohibit a separate or special agreement between the City and any user whereby
wastewater containing waste of unusual strength, character or composition may
be accepted by the City for treatment, subject to additional payment by such
user; provided however, that such agreement shall have the prior approval of
the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager, shall not conflict with IDNR and
USEPA requirements, and shall be consistent with Article B of this chapter.
   E.   The Water Pollution Control Plant Manager may reject any waste, which,
in the opinion of the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager, may cause
interference or pass through.
   F.   Users shall obtain the specific approval of the Water Pollution Control
Plant Manager prior to discharging any waste resulting from a pretreatment
facility to the POTW. The Water Pollution Control Plant Manager may develop a
documentation system to track the transportation and final disposition of any
pretreatment waste. Pretreatment waste regulated by this paragraph shall
include waste generated as a result of pretreatment processes used to comply
with NPDES permits, air pollution permits, wastewater discharge permits, soil/
groundwater reclamation processes, and pollutants resulting from a spill of any
liquid or solid material or the clean up of any such spill. Pretreatment waste
is prohibited from disposal to the water of the state except as specifically
permitted by IDNR. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2B-8: DILUTION PROHIBITED:
Users shall not increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt to
dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
pretreatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the NCPS,
or with any other pollutant specific limitation developed by the City. (Ord.
06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2B-9: SLUG/SPILL CONTROL:
   A.   Users, who upon internal review by the user personnel or upon review by
the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager, are determined to have the ability
to cause interference or pass through at the POTW or to discharge a slug shall
provide protection from accidental discharge to the POTW of prohibited
materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Facilities to prevent
accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be at the user's cost and
expense.
   B.   Slug/Spill Control Plan (SCP): Users meeting the criteria in subsection
A thereof shall develop a SCP and implement the plan after approval by the
Water Pollution Control Plant Manager. The plan shall contain the following:
      1.   A description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      2.   A description of stored chemicals;
      3.   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of slug discharges,
including any that would violate the discharge prohibitions in section
8-2B-2 of this chapter. Notification procedures shall comply with subsections C
and D of this subsection;
      4.   A description of procedure and structures necessary to prevent
adverse POTW impact from accidental spills including inspection and maintenance
of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and unloading
operations, control of plant site run off, worker training, building of
containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants (including solvents), and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
      5.   A schedule for the completion or implementation of necessary
procedures and structures. Complete implementation and installation of any
procedures or structures shall be according to the shortest possible schedule
but in no case longer than one year. Review and approval of such plans and
operating procedures shall not relieve the User from the responsibility to
modify and operate its facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter.
   C.   Users shall immediately telephone and notify the POTW in the case of:
      1.   Any discharge, including, but not limited to, accidental discharges,
discharges of a non-routine episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge,
or a slug discharge that may cause potential problems for the POTW.
      2.   Any discharge, which violates section
8-2B-2 of this chapter.
      3.   Any discharge into the POTW of a substance which is a listed or
characteristic waste under 40 CFR 261. This type of discharge will also be
require additional immediate reporting to the USEPA Regional Director and IDNR.
   D.   Immediate notification requirements shall include the name of caller,
location and time of discharge, pollutant concentration, volume and the
corrective actions taken.
   E.   Users shall submit a written report to the Water Pollution Control
Plant Manager within five days following such an accidental or deliberate
discharge describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by
the user to prevent similar future occurrences. Users shall submit follow up
reports as may be required by the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager. Such
report, or reports, shall not relieve the User of any expense, loss, damage or
other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, fish
kills, or any other damage to person or property; nor shall such report relieve
the user of any fines, civil penalties, or other liability which may be imposed
by this chapter or otherwise. Failure to report accidental or deliberate
discharges may, in addition to any other remedies available to the City, result
in the revocation of the discharger's wastewater discharge permit.
   F.   Users shall control production or all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with all applicable regulations upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its pretreatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of pretreatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
to the user's pretreatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   G.   Users required to have a SCP must permanently post a notice in English
and the language of common use on the user's bulletin board or other prominent
place advising employees whom to call should a prohibited discharge occur.
Users shall insure that all employees who are in a position to cause, discover,
or observe such an accidental discharge are advised of the emergency
notification procedures. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2B-10: TREATMENT UPSETS:
   A.   For the purposes of this section, upset means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical
Pretreatment Standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   B.   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical Pretreatment Standards if the requirements
of subsection C are met.
   C.   An user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      1.   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      2.   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures;
      3.   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW within
twenty four (24) hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is
provided orally, a written submission must be provided within five (5) days).
         a.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         b.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue;
         c.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
recurrence of the noncompliance.
   D.   In any enforcement proceeding the industrial user seeking to establish
the occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   E.   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only if an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment.
   F.   The user shall control production or all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2B-11: TREATMENT BYPASS:
   A.   Bypass is prohibited unless it is unavoidable to prevent loss of life,
personal injury, or severe property damage or no feasible alternatives exist
such as the use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated
waste, or maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime.
   B.   The user may allow a bypass to occur which does not cause a violation
of pretreatment standards, but only if it is for essential maintenance to
assure efficient operation.
   C.   Notification Of Bypass:
      1.   Anticipated Bypass: If the user knows in advance of the need for a
bypass, it shall submit prior written notice, at least ten (10) days before the
date of the bypass, to the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager.
      2.   Unanticipated Bypass: The user shall immediately notify the Water
Pollution Control Plant Manager and submit a written notice to the POTW within
five (5) days. This report shall specify:
         a.   A description of the bypass, its cause, and the duration;
         b.   Whether the bypass has been corrected;
         c.   The steps being taken or to be taken to reduce, eliminate and
prevent a reoccurrence of the bypass.
   D.   Proper notification shall not relieve the user of liability for
treatment costs and fees or other remedies as provided for in section
8-2B-7. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
ARTICLE C. WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
8-2C-1: Permit Requirements
8-2C-2: Permit Applications - Baseline Monitoring Reports
8-2C-3: Categorical Industries - Report On Compliance
8-2C-4: Permit Contents
8-2C-5: Permit Duration And Renewal
8-2C-6: Continuation Of Expired Permits
8-2C-7: Permit Modifications
8-2C-8: Permit Transfer
8-2C-9: Denial Of Permit
8-2C-10: Permit Violations
8-2C-11: Periodic Compliance Reports
8-2C-12: Certification And Signatory Requirements
8-2C-13: Monitoring Facilities
8-2C-14: Inspection, Sampling And Record Keeping Authority
8-2C-15: Confidential Information
8-2C-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
All new industrial users shall notify the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager
of the nature and characteristics of their proposed discharge one hundred
eighty (180) days prior to commencing discharge. A notification form prescribed
by the City shall be used for this purpose.
Significant users shall discharge wastewater, either directly or indirectly,
into the POTW only after obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the Water
Pollution Control Plant Manager. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does
not relieve a user of the obligation to obtain other permits required by
federal, state, or local law.
Other users, including waste haulers, shall obtain permits as required by the
Water Pollution Control Plant Manager. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2C-2: PERMIT APPLICATIONS - BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS:
Users applying for a wastewater discharge permit or submitting a baseline
monitoring report shall submit the following information as required by 40 CFR
403.12 or by the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager:
   A.   Users applying for a wastewater discharge permit must submit an
application form prescribed by the City and accompanied by the application fee.
All new significant users must submit such application one hundred eight (180)
days prior to the date of any wastewater discharge. Existing users subject to
new NCPS must, within one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date of
the standard, submit such an application. The following information is
required:
      1.   Name, address, and location of facility (if different from the
mailing address);
      2.   Name of a person or agent authorized to accept legal service of
process;
      3.   Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) code of both the industry
as a whole and any processes for which NCPS have been promulgated and a list of
any environmental control permits held by or for the facility;
      4.   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including any pollutants
in the discharge which are limited by any federal, state, or local standards
with sampling and analysis performed in accordance with EPA approved methods,
and meeting the following requirements:
         a.   The user shall identify the pretreatment standards applicable to
each regulated process if the user is a categorical user.
         b.   All samples shall be representative of daily operations.
         c.   A minimum of six (6) grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide,
total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organics. For all other
pollutants, twenty-four (24) hour composite samples must be obtained through
flow proportional composite sampling techniques where feasible. The Water
Pollution Control Plant Manager may waive flow proportional composite sampling
for any user that demonstrates that flow proportional sampling is not feasible.
In such cases, samples may be obtained through time proportional techniques or
through a minimum of four (4) grab samples where the user demonstrates that
such sampling will provide a representative sample of the effluent being
discharged.
         d.   Where the flow of the stream being sampled is less than or equal
to 250,000 gpd, the user must analyze three samples within a two-week period.
   Where the flow of the stream being sampled is greater than 250,000 gpd, the
user must analyze six (6) samples within a two-week period.
         e.   Samples must be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists and prior to mixing with other waste. If non
regulated wastewater is mixed with regulated wastewater prior to pretreatment,
the user must measure the flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of
the combined waste stream formula of 40 CFR 403.6(e) in order to evaluate
compliance with pretreatment standards. Where an alternate concentrations or
mass limit has been calculated in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(e), this
adjusted limit along with supporting data shall be submitted to the Water
Pollution Control Plant Manager. Users not subject to categorical standards
shall submit analysis of wastewater representative of the effluent discharged
to the POTW.
         f.   The Water Pollution Control Plant Manager may allow the
submission of an application which utilizes only historical data so long as the
data provides information sufficient to determine the need for pretreatment.
         g.   A statement indicating the time, date and place of sampling,
methods of analysis, and certifying that such sampling and analysis is
representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant discharges to the
POTW shall accompany each application/baseline monitoring report unless such
sampling and analysis was performed by the City.
      5.   Time and duration of all discharges;
      6.   Daily maximum, daily average, and monthly average wastewater flow
rates, including daily, monthly, and seasonal variations, if any;
      7.   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes at the
site, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used at the facility
which are or could accidentally or intentionally be discharged to the POTW;
      8.   The site plans, floor plans and mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location
and elevation. The plans shall include a schematic process diagram which
indicates all points of discharge to the POTW. All plans must be certified for
accuracy by a professional engineer registered in the state of Iowa;
      9.   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and rate
of production;
      10.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day);
      11.   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation, and proposed
or actual hours of operation of the pretreatment facility;
      12.   A statement, reviewed by an authorized representative of the user
(as defined in section 8-2B-12) and certified to by a professional engineer
registered in the state of Iowa, indicating whether pretreatment standards are
being met on a consistent basis and if not whether additional operation and
maintenance (O&M) or additional pretreatment is required for the user to meet
pretreatment standards and requirements;
      13.   If additional pretreatment or O&M will be required to meet
pretreatment standards or requirements, then the user shall supply a compliance
schedule indicating the shortest time schedule necessary to accomplish
installation or adoption of such additional pretreatment or O&M. The completion
date in this schedule shall not be longer than the compliance date established
for the applicable pretreatment standard. The following conditions apply to
this schedule:
         a.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (such schedule shall include, where
applicable, but not limited to, dates Tor the hiring of an engineer, completing
preliminary plans, executing contracts for major components, commencing
construction, beginning operation, and conducting routine operations);
         b.   No increment referred to in subsection A13a above, shall exceed
nine (9) months, nor shall the total compliance period exceed eighteen (18)
months;
         c.   No later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress
report to the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager, including, as a minimum,
whether or not it complied with the increment of progress, the reason for any
delay, and if appropriate, the steps being taken by the user to return to the
established schedule. In no event shall more than nine months elapse between
such progress reports to the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager.
      14.   Any additional information required by the Water Pollution Control
Plant Manager to evaluate a permit application;
   B.   All applications and reports must contain the certification statement
and be signed in accordance with section
8-2C-12.
   C.   Any requests for a monitoring waiver (or a renewal of an approved
monitoring waiver) for a pollutant neither present nor expected to be present
in the discharge based on 40 CFR 403.12(e)(2). (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2C-3: CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIES - REPORT ON COMPLIANCE:
Users subject to NCPS shall submit a report to the Water Pollution Control
Plant Manager containing the information described in subsections 8-2C-2A3, A4,
A5, and A11, within ninety (90) days following the date for final compliance
with applicable NCPS or, in the case of a new source, following commencement of
discharge. Users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits shall
provide a reasonable measure of the user's long term production rate. For all
other users subject to NCPS expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge
per unit of production (or other measure of operation), this report shall
include the user's actual production during the appropriate sampling period.
All reports must contain the certification statement and be signed in
accordance with section
8-2C-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2C-4: PERMIT CONTENTS:
Wastewater discharge permits shall include such conditions as are reasonably
deemed necessary by the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager to prevent pass
through or interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the
POTW's effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate POTW sludge
management and disposal, protect ambient air quality, and protect against
damage to the POTW collection system or plant.
   A.   The conditions may include, but need not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Limits on the average or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      2.   Limits on the average or maximum concentration, mass, or other
measure of identified wastewater constituents or properties;
      3.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices, etc., designed to reduce,
eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW;
      4.   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill control
plans or other special conditions including additional management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or prohibited
discharges;
      5.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      6.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection,
sampling, and flow monitoring facilities and equipment for each separate
discharge into the POTW;
      7.   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for tests, and
reporting schedules;
      8.   Compliance schedules;
      9.   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports and which may include production data;
      10.   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the Water Pollution Control Plant
Manager and affording the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager or the Water
Pollution Control Plant Manager's representatives, access thereto;
      11.   Requirements for the notification of any substantial change in the
manufacturing processes, pretreatment processes, quantity or quality of waste
discharged to the POTW 90 days prior to such change. The Water Pollution
Control Plant Manager shall approve, deny or condition a changed discharge
prior to a change occurring in accordance with the provisions of section
8-2B-1A4 of this chapter;
      12.   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal
pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the term
of the permit.
      13.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Water Pollution
Control Plant Manager to ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and
federal laws, rules, and regulations. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2C-5: PERMIT DURATION AND RENEWAL:
Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five (5)
years. Permitted users shall apply for a new permit by submitting a completed
permit application a minimum of ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the
user's existing permit. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2C-6: CONTINUATION OF EXPIRED PERMITS:
Expired permits shall remain effective and enforceable until the permit is
reissued unless the user is notified of permit termination by the City. (Ord.
06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2C-7: PERMIT MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   The Water Pollution Control Plant Manager may modify the permit for
good cause including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standard or requirement (after becoming aware of more stringent
standards or requirements, the POTW will update permits within ninety (90)
days);
      2.   Material or substantial alterations or additions to the discharger's
operation processes, or discharge volume or character which were not considered
in drafting the effective permit;
      3.   A change in any condition in either the industrial user or the POTW
that requires either a temporary or permanent reduction or elimination of the
authorized discharge;
      4.   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the POTW, POTW personnel or the receiving water;
      5.   Violation of any terms or conditions of the permit;
      6.   Misrepresentation of or grant of variance from such categorical
standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13;
      7.   To correct typographical or other errors in the permit;
      8.   To reflect transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a new
owner/operator;
      9.   Upon request of the permittee, provided such request does not create
a violation of any applicable requirements, standards, laws, or rules and
regulations;
      10.   The filing of a request by the permittee for permit modification,
revocation and re-issuance, termination, or a notification of planned changes
or anticipated noncompliance, does not stay any permit condition. (Ord. 06-23,
2-7-2023)
8-2C-8: PERMIT TRANSFER:
Users shall not reassign or transfer a wastewater discharge permit to a new
owner. New owners must apply for a new wastewater discharge permit thirty (30)
days prior to a change in ownership. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2C-9: DENIAL OF PERMIT:
The Water Pollution Control Plant Manager may deny a permit to any user whose
discharge of material to POTW, whether shown upon application or determined
after inspection and testing conducted by the City, is not in conformity with
this chapter or whose application is incomplete or does not comply with the
requirements of section
8-2C-2. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2C-10: PERMIT VIOLATIONS:
Any violations of the terms, conditions, or limits of a user's wastewater
discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subject the
user to all enforcement procedures outlined in this chapter. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-
2023)
8-2C-11: PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS:
   A.   Periodic compliance reports are required as follows:
      1.   Significant users shall submit to the Water Pollution Control Plant
Manager no less than twice per year, a report indicating the nature,
concentration, and flow of pollutants in the effluent which are limited by
permit or pretreatment standards for the reporting period. This report shall
include a record of the monthly average flows and the daily flow for each
analysis date during the reporting period. At the discretion of the Water
Pollution Control Plant Manager and in consideration of such factors as local
high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles, etc., the Water Pollution
Control Plant Manager may agree to alter the months during which the above
reports are to be submitted.
      2.   The Water Pollution Control Plant Manager may impose mass
limitations on users. In such cases, the report required by the above paragraph
shall indicate the mass of pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards in
the effluent of the user. All analysis shall be performed using EPA approved
methods using sampling techniques approved by IDNR.
      3.   Users shall meet the certification and signatory requirements in
section
8-2C-12 for each report submitted under this section. Where the City itself
collects all the information required for the report, including flow data, the
industrial user will not be required to submit a periodic compliance report.
      4.   Users must notify the POTW of all violations identified as a result
of self monitoring to the POTW by telephone, during normal business hours,
within twenty four (24) hours of the time the user becomes aware of such
violation. The user must also submit the results of repeat analyses to the POTW
within thirty (30) days after becoming aware of the violation together with a
complete report on all steps taken to resolve the violation. The user need not
repeat the analyses if:
         a.   The POTW performs sampling of the industrial user at a frequency
of at least once per month; or
         b.   The POTW performs sampling of the user between the time when the
user performs its initial sampling and the time when the user receives the
results of this sampling; or
         c.   The POTW has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the
user, the POTW will perform the repeat sampling and analysis unless it notifies
the user of the violation and requires the user to perform the repeat sampling
and analysis, [per 40 CFR 403.12(g)(2)].
      5.   If the user monitors any pollutant more frequently than required,
using test procedures prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136 or amendments thereto, or
otherwise approved by EPA or as specified by the Water Pollution Control Plant
Manager, the results of such monitoring shall be included in any calculations
of actual daily maximum or monthly average pollutant discharge and results
shall be reported in the monthly report.
      6.   If the user utilizes a laboratory other the Davenport Water
Pollution Control Plant Laboratory to sample or analyze any pollutant, the
Davenport Water Pollution Control Plant Manager must be informed in writing.
All external sampling plans must be approved prior to uses of the third-party
data in the monitoring reports.
      7.   The Davenport Water Pollution Control Plant manager has selected the
Davenport Water Pollution Control Plant Laboratory as the primary laboratory
for all Biochemical Oxygen Demand, Total Suspended Solids and pH sample
analyses for regulatory compliance and Combined Sewer Service Charge billing.
The user can request a different laboratory be used by writing the Davenport
Water Pollution Control Pretreatment Office listing the reasons for the request
and the alternatives the permittee would like. The permittee will be notified
in writing within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt if the request or parts
of the request was approved.
   B.   The Water Pollution Control Plant Manager may authorize a user subject
to a categorical Pretreatment Standard to forego sampling of a pollutant
regulated by a categorical Pretreatment Standard if the user has demonstrated
through sampling and other technical factors that the pollutant is neither
present nor expected to be present in the discharge, or is present only at
background levels from intake water and without any increase in the pollutant
due to activities of the user. This authorization is subject to the conditions
set forth in 40 CFR 403.12(e)(2).
   C.   The Water Pollution Control Plant Manager may reduce the requirements
for periodic compliance reports to a requirement to report no less frequently
than once a year, unless required more frequently in the Pretreatment Standard
or by the State for those users determined to be a Non-Significant Categorical
Industrial User per 40 CFR 403.3(v)(2).
      1.   Reduced reporting is not available to users that have in the last
two (2) years been in significant noncompliance.
      2.   Reduced reporting is not available to a user with daily flow rates,
production levels, or pollutant levels that vary so significantly that, in the
opinion of the Water Pollution Control Manager, decreasing the reporting
requirements for this user would result in data that are not representative of
conditions occurring during the reporting period. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2C-12: CERTIFICATION AND SIGNATORY REQUIREMENTS:
All applications and reports shall be signed by an authorized representative of
the user as defined in section
8-2-3. Users shall maintain a current and accurate authorization on file with
the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager.
   A.   Certification Of Permit Applications, User Reports And Initial
Monitoring Waiver:
   All permit applications, baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance
with the categorical Pretreatment Standard deadlines, periodic compliance
reports and initial requests to forego sampling of a pollutant not present
submitted by a user shall contain the following certification statement:
      "I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations."
   B.   Annual Certification For Non-Significant Categorical Industrial Users:
   A facility determined to be a Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User by
the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager must annually submit the following
certification statement signed in accordance with the signatory requirements in
40 CFR 403.120(I). This certification must accompany an alternative report
required by the City:
      "Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40
CFR________, I, _________________, certify that to the best of my knowledge and
belief, that during the period from _____________ to ______________ (month/day/
year):
      (a)   The facility described as ___________ (facility name) met the
definition of a Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User as described in 40
CFR 403.3(v)(2);
      (b)   The facility complied with all applicable Pretreatment Standards
and requirements during this reporting period; and
      (c)   The facility never discharged more than 100 gallons of total
categorical wastewater on any given day during this reporting period.
      This compliance certification is based on the following information:
       _______________________________________________________".
   C.   Certification of Pollutants Not Present Users that have an approved
monitoring waiver must certify on each report with the following statement that
there has been no increase in the pollutant in its waste stream due to
activities of the user.
      "Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the Pretreatment Standard for 40 CFR________, I,
________________, certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief, there
has been no increase in the level of [list pollutant(s)] in the wastewaters due
to the activities at the facility since filing of the last periodic report
under section
8-2C-11."
(Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2C-13: MONITORING FACILITIES:
   A.   Permitted users, when required by the Water Pollution Control Plant
Manager, shall provide and operate monitoring facilities to allow inspection,
sampling, and flow measurement of the building sewer, or internal drainage
systems at their own expense. The Water Pollution Control Plant Manager may
require the placement of such monitoring facilities at the end of each process
where pollutants are used, produced, or treated. The monitoring facility should
normally be situated on the user's premises and located so that it will not be
obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
   B.   When required by permit and within ninety (90) days of written
notification, users shall install a sampling chamber for each separate
discharge of the building sewer in accordance with plans and specification
approved by the City. Users shall provide ample room in or near such sampling
chamber to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis.
Users shall maintain all sampling and measuring equipment in a safe and proper
operating condition at all times and at the expense of the user which shall be
safely, easily and independently accessible to authorized representatives of
the City. Users shall certify all flow measuring devices to be in proper
working condition once per year using a qualified technician acceptable to the
Water Pollution Control Plant Manager.
      1.   Each sampling chamber shall contain a flume unless another device is
approved by the City, with a recording and totalizing device for measurement of
the liquid quantity.
      2.   At the discretion of the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager,
metered water supply to a user may be used as the volume quantity where it is
substantiated that the metered water supply and waste quantities are
approximately the same, or where a measurable adjustment agreed to by the Water
Pollution Control Plant Manager is made in the metered water supply to
determine the liquid waste quantity. Separate meters may be used to subtract
water which is not discharged to the POTW or is discharged to a sewer other
than the sampled location.
      3.   Samples shall be taken at a frequency and volume determined by the
Water Pollution Control Plant Manager, and shall be properly refrigerated and
preserved in accordance with EPA approved methods. The sample shall be
composited in proportion to the flow for a representative twenty four (24) hour
sample. A time proportioned twenty four (24) hour sample may be used if flow
proportioned sampling is determined by the City to be impractical. Grab samples
shall be used where appropriate.
   C.   Users must inform the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager prior to
breaking a sampler seal, used by the City to detect sample tampering, unless
necessary to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property damage.
Users must not place additional seals or locks upon a sampler which may be used
by the City without first obtaining approval from the Water Pollution Control
Plant Manager. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2C-14: INSPECTION, SAMPLING AND RECORD KEEPING AUTHORITY:
   A.   Users shall give the following authorities to the City:
      1.   Users shall permit authorized representatives or agents of the City
to enter upon all properties and all parts of the premises within the corporate
limits of the City, within the extended jurisdiction of the City, or upon
properties of users with wastewater discharge permits for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, records examination, records copying, or the performance
of any of their duties. This shall include the right to set up, on the user's
property, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection,
compliance monitoring, or metering operations as may be required in pursuance
of the implementation and enforcement of this chapter.
      2.   Where a user has security measures in force which would require
proper identification and clearance before entry into their premises, the user
shall make necessary arrangements in the security measures so that, upon
presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the City will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
      3.   All users subject to any of the reporting requirements of this
chapter shall maintain copies of reports and records of all information as
required in 40 CFR 403.12(o) resulting from any monitoring activities required
by this chapter for a minimum of five (5) years and shall make such records
available for inspection and copying by the City. This period of retention
shall be extended until the completion of any unresolved negotiation, hearing,
or litigation involving a purported violation. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2C-15: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
   A.   Except as herein provided, information and data obtained from user
reports, questionnaires, permit applications and inspections, shall be made
available to the public or other governmental agencies without restriction. If
the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate that the release of
such information would divulge information concerning processes or methods of
production entitled to protection under law as trade secrets of the User or
would give advantage to competitors and serve no public purpose the Water
Pollution Control Plant Manager shall not make such information available to
the public but such information shall be available to the USEPA or IDNR.
   B.   In determining whether information is confidential, the provision of
561-2 of the Iowa Administrative Code shall prevail.
   C.   Effluent data and City enforcement actions will not be considered
confidential records or information. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
ARTICLE D. ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
SECTION:
8-2D-1: Public Notification Of Significant Noncompliance
8-2D-2: Significant Noncompliance
8-2D-3: Administrative Action
8-2D-4: Actions Authorized
8-2D-5: Civil Penalties
8-2D-6: Criminal Penalties
8-2D-7: Performance Bonds
8-2D-8: Revocation Of Permit
8-2D-9: Reinstatement Of Service
8-2D-10: Emergency Disconnection Of Service
8-2D-11: Elimination Of Discharge/Reinstatement
8-2D-12: Additional Remedies
8-2D-1: PUBLIC NOTIFICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE:
The City shall at a minimum annually publish, in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the JCSC community, a
list of users which at any time during the previous calendar year, were in
significant noncompliance as defined in section
8-2D-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2D-2: SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE:
   A.   Any violation of pretreatment requirements (i.e., but not limited to:
limits, sampling, analysis, reporting, meeting compliance schedules, and
regulatory deadlines) is an instance of noncompliance for which the user is
liable for enforcement, including penalties and injunctive relief. Instances of
SNC are user violations which meet one or more of the following criteria:
      1.   Violations of wastewater discharge limits.
         a.   Chronic Violations: Sixty six percent (66%) or more of all the
measurements taken for the same pollutant parameter taken during a six-month
period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric Pretreatment Standard or
Requirement, including instantaneous limits as defined in section
8-2B-2 of this chapter.
         b.   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) Violations: Thirty three percent
(33%) or more of the measurements taken for each pollutant parameter during a
six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the numeric Pretreatment
Standard or Requirement including Instantaneous limits as defined in section
8-2B-2 of this chapter multiplied by the applicable criteria:
            (1)   BOD, TSS, Fats, Oil and Grease Criteria = 1.4.
            (2)   All other pollutants except pH Criteria = 1.2.
         c.   Any other violation(s) of a pretreatment standard or requirement
as defined by 40 CFR 43.3(1) (daily maximum, monthly average, instantaneous
limit, or narrative standard) that the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager
believes has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference (including slug loads) or pass through; or endangered the health
of City personnel or the public.
         d.   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health/welfare or to the environment and has resulted in
the City's exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a
discharge.
         e.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled date,
any compliance schedule milestones, contained in a wastewater discharge permit
or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing construction, and
attaining final compliance.
         f.   Failure to provide within forty five (45) days after the due
date, any required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on
compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-
monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules.
         g.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
         h.   Any other violations or group of violations, which may include a
violation of Best Management Practices, which the Water Pollution Control Plant
Manager determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the
local pretreatment program.
   B.   When a user is in SNC, the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager is
directed to:
      1.   Report the information to IDNR as part of the annual pretreatment
performance summary of permitted user noncompliance;
      2.   Include the user in the annual public notification.
      3.   Address SNC through appropriate enforcement actions. (Ord. 06-23, 2-
7-2023)
8-2D-3: ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION:
   A.   The Water Pollution Control Plant Manager may issue a written notice to
the user giving specific nature of violations which shall include the
frequency, magnitude and impact of the violation upon the POTW. The notice may
also include the following:
      1.   An order requiring a plan of action for preventing reoccurrence of
the violation;
      2.   An order requiring specific action for accomplishing remediation;
      3.   An order requiring the user to respond in writing within thirty (30)
days.
   B.   The Water Pollution Control Plant Manager is empowered to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the user responsible for any noncompliance. Such
orders will include specific action to be taken by the user to correct
noncompliance within a time period specified by the order.
   C.   The Water Pollution Control Plant Manager may issue enforceable orders
or schedules to require compliance with pretreatment standards including
appropriate interim limits. Such orders and schedules may be incorporated into
a revised wastewater discharge permit and shall not require the consent of the
user. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2D-4: ACTIONS AUTHORIZED:
Where there has been noncompliance with any provision of this chapter the Water
Pollution Control Plant Manager may request, and Corporation Counsel (or any
attorney representing the City) is authorized to bring an action in equity or
at law to seek the issuance of a preliminary or permanent injunction or both or
such other relief as may be appropriate to compel compliance by the user with
this chapter. No other authorization from the City Council for the bringing of
such action shall be required.
In addition to other remedies provided under this or other provisions of this
chapter, in any action brought to enforce the provisions of this chapter the
City Council authorizes and directs Corporation Counsel to seek to recover all
actual damages suffered by the City including all actual damages and losses
related to costs of repair and remediation of the POTW, costs of administration
reasonably related to any particular violation and attorneys fees. (Ord. 06-23,
2-7-2023)
8-2D-5: CIVIL PENALTIES:
   A.   Each violation of any provision of this chapter or of a permit issued
under this chapter is declared to be a municipal infraction. Each day that a
violation of a provision of this chapter continues and each day that a
violation of permit issued under this chapter continues shall be considered a
separate municipal infraction.
   B.   Any person who knowingly makes a false statement, representation or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter or a wastewater discharge
permit or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this chapter commits a municipal
infraction.
   C.   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this
ordinance, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable for a maximum civil
penalty not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) of per violation, per
day. In the case of a monthly or other long-term average discharge limit,
penalties shall accrue for each day during the period of the violation
   D.   In addition to the penalties established in this section for municipal
infractions, Corporation Counsel shall seek all other appropriate remedies
allowed by law in regard to the abating correction or discontinuance of
activities which constitute municipal infractions under this chapter. (Ord. 06-
23, 2-7-2023)
8-2D-6: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
Any industrial user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this
chapter or any orders or permits issued here under shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars
($100.00) per each violation per day or imprisonment for not more than thirty
(30) days per violation or both.
Any industrial user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations,
or certifications in any application, record, report, plan or other document
files or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or wastewater
discharge permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) per violation per day or imprisonment for not more than thirty (30)
days or both. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2D-7: PERFORMANCE BONDS:
The Water Pollution Control Plant Manager may decline to reissue a permit to
any user who has failed to comply with the provision of this chapter or any
order or previous permit issued here under unless such user first files a
satisfactory bond payable to the City in a sum not to exceed the value
determined by the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager to be necessary to
achieve compliance giving due consideration to the number and magnitude of
previous violations, potential need for remediation and stating the reasons
which support the amount of bond in a written order directed to the user, but
in no case shall said bond be required to be greater than twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00). The user shall use a bond form approved by the City.
(Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2D-8: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Conditions For Revocation: Any user who violates this chapter, any
condition of its wastewater discharge permit, or any of the following, is
subject to having its permit revoked in accordance with the procedures of this
section:
      1.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      2.   Failure of the user to report substantial changes in process
activity or in volume or character of pollutants being introduced into the POTW
at least ninety (90) days prior to such change;
      3.   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      4.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring, or sampling;
      5.   Violation of permit conditions;
      6.   Failure to report an upset, failure, or bypass of user's
pretreatment facilities;
      7.   Failure to pay fines, fees, or sewer user charges;
      8.   Failure to follow enforcement orders or compliance schedules;
      9.   Failure to correct a condition that impedes or alters the POTW's
ability to monitor the user's discharge or has the potential to cause
interference or pass through;
   B.   Procedures For Revocation:
      1.   Any permit issued to a user pursuant to this chapter may be revoked
for any action which is subject to revocation under subsection A. No revocation
shall issue except upon notice delivered to the user by mailing the notice in
the regular mail addressed to the user at the address listed on the wastewater
discharge permit, a minimum of ten (10) days prior to the date set for hearing
before the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager or his or her designee. Such
notice shall inform the user of the time, date and place of the hearing, the
purpose of the hearing, and shall set out the reasons therefore.
      2.   If, after such a hearing, the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager
or his or her designee makes a finding based on substantial evidence that
actions subject to revocation under subsection A have occurred as alleged, the
Water Pollution Control Plant Manager or his or her designee may continue
suspension of or revoke the permit; the determination of whether to revoke such
permit shall be in the discretion of the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager
or his or her designee and shall be dependent upon the circumstances
surrounding violations by the user of subsection A and their severity.
      3.   A user whose permit has been revoked shall not be eligible for
another permit until thirty (30) days after the violating conditions have been
corrected to the satisfaction of the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager.
(Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2D-9: REINSTATEMENT OF SERVICE:
In the event of severance of service, the service may be reinstated in the
following manner:
   A.   Upon payment to the City of any delinquency in full, plus penalties,
plus the cost of the disconnection and the one hundred dollars ($100.00) City
supervision fee, and an inspection by the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager
to determine whether the original cause for termination has been corrected, the
City will issue a permit for reconnection of the building service line to the
POTW. Such reconnection costs, plus inspection fees for the City in accordance
with City chapters, shall be at the sole expense of the user.
   B.   Upon reconnection and payment of all costs described above, the City
through its agents, shall remove the red tag from the building and the building
shall, so far as the City is concerned, be "fit for human occupancy." (Ord. 06-
23, 2-7-2023)
8-2D-10: EMERGENCY DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE:
   A.   Conditions For Immediate Disconnection Of Service: The Water Pollution
Control Plant Manager may, after informal notice, suspend the wastewater
treatment service or wastewater permit of a user whenever such suspension is
necessary in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge presenting or
causing an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons, the POTW, or the environment.
   B.   Procedures For Immediate Disconnection:
      1.   When the Water Pollution Control Plant Manager determines that a
discharge as described in paragraph a exists, a verbal order shall be issued
(followed immediately by a written order) to the user stating the problem and
requiring immediate cessation of the discharge. Users verbally notified of a
suspension of the wastewater treatment service or the wastewater permit shall
immediately stop or eliminate all discharges. In the event of a user's failure
to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Water
Pollution Control Plant Manager shall take immediate action to eliminate the
discharge including disconnection from the POTW. Methods of informal notice to
a user shall include, but not be limited to, any of the following; personal
conversations between user and City personnel, telephone calls, letters, hand
delivered messages or notices posted at the user's premises or point of
discharge.
      2.   Users responsible, in whole or in part, for imminent endangerment
shall submit a detailed written report describing the causes of the
endangerment and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence to the
Water Pollution Control Plant Manager prior to the hearing described in
subsection 8-2D-8B. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2D-11: ELIMINATION OF DISCHARGE/REINSTATEMENT:
Users notified of a disconnection of wastewater treatment service under
sections
8-2D-8 or
8-2D-10 shall immediately stop or eliminate the discharge. In the event of a
failure of the user to comply voluntarily with the disconnection or revocation
order, the City shall take such steps as are deemed necessary, including
immediate severance of the sewer connection. The Water Pollution Control Plant
Manager shall reinstate the wastewater discharge permit or the wastewater
treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the non-complying discharge.
(Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
8-2D-12: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
   A.   In addition to remedies available to the City set forth elsewhere in
this chapter, if the City is fined by IDNR or USEPA for violations of the City
NPDES permit or violations of water quality standards as the result of a
discharge of pollutants by identifiable user(s), then the fine, including all
City legal, sampling, analytical testing costs and any other related costs
shall be charged to the responsible user(s). Such charge shall be in addition
to any other remedies the City may have under this chapter, at law or in
equity.
   B.   If the discharge from any user results in a deposit, obstruction,
damage or other impairment to the POTW, the user shall become liable to the
City for any expense, loss, or damage caused by the violations or discharge.
The City may add to the user's charges and fees the costs assessed for any
cleaning, repair, or replacement work caused by the violations or discharge.
   C.   The remedies provided in this chapter shall not be exclusive and the
City may seek whatever other remedies are authorized by ordinance, statute, at
law or in equity against any persons violating the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   In addition to any other remedies provided in this chapter, the City
may initiate an action, either in law or in equity, to obtain an injunction
against further violations of this chapter, and for judgement for all costs
incurred by the City occasioned by the user's violation of any requirements of
this chapter. (Ord. 06-23, 2-7-2023)
CHAPTER 3
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
ARTICLE A. SOLID WASTE CONTROL
8-3A-1: Purpose
8-3A-2: Definitions
8-3A-3: Special Cleanup Activities
8-3A-4: City Authority Regarding Waste Collection
8-3A-5: Sanitary Disposal Required
8-3A-6: Health and Fire Hazard
8-3A-7: Open Burning
8-3A-8: Separation of Yard Waste Required
8-3A-9: Littering Prohibited
8-3A-10: Open Dumping Prohibited
8-3A-11: Hazardous Waste
8-3A-12: Preparation of Wastes for Collection
8-3A-13: Solid Waste and Recycling Containers
8-3A-14: Placement and Times of Wastes for Collection
8-3A-15: Prohibited Practices
8-3A-16: Penalty
ARTICLE B. SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
8-3B-1: Residential Collection Service
8-3B-2: Commercial Collection Service
8-3B-3: Private Street and Multi-Family Collection Service
8-3B-4: Collection Vehicles
8-3B-5: Loading
8-3B-6: Frequency of Collection
8-3B-7: Collection of Recyclables
8-3B-8: Collection of Yard Waste
8-3B-9: Collection of Bulky Waste
8-3B-10: Uniform Collection from Residential Premises
8-3B-11: Solid Waste Generated through Private Enterprise
8-3B-12: Right of Entry
8-3B-13: Licensed Waste Collectors
8-3B-14: Garbage and Recycling Collection Rates
8-3B-15: Gratuities to City Waste Collectors
8-3B-16: Counterfeit Stickers
8-3B-17: Penalty
ARTICLE A. SOLID WASTE CONTROL
8-3A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter pertaining to solid waste control is to provide a
sanitary method for the storage, collection, transportation, and disposal of
solid waste, yard waste and recyclable material, and, thereby, to protect the
citizens of the city from such hazards to their health, safety and welfare that
may result from uncontrolled disposal of solid waste, yard waste or recyclable
material. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3A-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section unless different meanings are clearly
indicated by the context:
ACCESS,     Direct, dedicated motor vehicle access from a public right-of-way to a
DIRECT:     dwelling unit.
            Vehicular access, by motor vehicle or commercial vehicle, originating from a
ACCESS,     public right-of-way to a dwelling unit and shared with another dwelling unit.
INDIRECT:   Indirect access may be considered, but is not limited to, the following: a
            private street, shared driveway, common parking lot, or other common means of
            vehicular access.
ASHES:      The residue of the combustion of solid fuels.
BUILDING    Any refuse or residue resulting from minor noncommercial repairs to a private
DEBRIS:     dwelling made by the owner or occupant thereof.
            Any and all refuse or residue resulting from building construction,
BUILDING    reconstruction, repair or demolition; from grading, scrubbing or other
WASTE:      incidental work in connection with any premises; or from replacement of
            building equipment or appliances.
            A metal container constructed so as to be watertight but with drain plugs at
            the lowest point of the container to facilitate the drainage of any liquids
            that might accumulate in the container or from cleaning the container. Bulk
BULK        containers shall have doors that open on the top and close automatically
CONTAINER:  during emptying. Bulk containers shall be designed so that they can be emptied
            mechanically by specially designed trucks. When not in use, side doors shall
            be closed at all times. These containers may also be referred to as
            “dumpsters” in this chapter.
            Any large household items that cannot be properly enclosed within city-owned
            containers, and that meets the city’s criteria for bulk waste pickup, as may
BULKY       be revised from time to time. Bulk items include, but are not limited to, all
WASTE:      furniture, electronics, mattresses, box springs, white goods, gas grills,
            wheelbarrows, bicycles, lawn equipment, carpet and carpet padding, individual
            items of construction and demolition waste, and all other fixtures and
            appliances.
CITY-OWNED  Solid waste or recycling containers which the city purchases and provides to
CONTAINER:  the owners or occupants of residential premises for the placement of solid
            waste or recycling collection by the city.
COLLECTOR:  Any person or firm authorized by the city to collect, transport and dispose of
            solid waste, yard waste or recyclable material from public and private places.
COMMERCIAL  Any business, industry, institution, church or non-profit organization.
PREMISES:
COMMERCIAL  Any solid waste generated from commercial premises as defined in this section
WASTE:      above.
DEAD        Animals that have died naturally or have been accidentally killed; animals or
ANIMALS:    parts of animals from slaughterhouses are not included in this category.
DEPARTMENT: The department of public works of the city.
DIRECTOR:   The director of public works of the city and authorized representatives.
DISCARD:    To place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit, or drop. (Iowa Code § 455B.361
            [1])
DISPOSABLE  Disposable plastic or paper sacks with a capacity of twenty (20) to thirty
SOLID WASTE five (35) gallons specifically designed for the storage of solid waste.
CONTAINER:
DWELLING    Any room or group of rooms located within a structure and forming a single
UNIT:       habitable unit with facilities which are used, or are intended to be used, for
            living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
            All solid and semisolid, putrescible animal and vegetable waste resulting from
            the handling, preparing, cooking, storing, serving and consuming of food or of
GARBAGE:    material intended for use as food, and all offal, excluding useful industrial
            by-products, and includes all such substances from all public and private
            establishments and from all residences. (IAC § 567-100.2)
            Solid and liquid waste which requires special handling and disposal to protect
            and conserve the environment and human health including, but not limited to,
HAZARDOUS   pesticides, acids, caustics, pathological waste, radioactive materials,
WASTE:      flammable or explosive materials, oils and solvents, and similar organic and
            inorganic chemicals and materials, containers and materials that have been
            contaminated with hazardous waste.
IDNR:       Iowa Department of Natural Resources.
            Any person who has obtained a license as specified in this chapter from the
LICENSED    city to collect or transport for consideration bulk refuse, household waste,
WASTE       institutional waste, commercial waste, industrial waste, building waste or
COLLECTOR:  building debris, regardless of the place of origin, over the streets of the
            city.
LITTER:     Any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials, or debris that is not
            properly and legally disposed. (Iowa Code § 455B.361[2])
            For the purpose of this chapter, multi-family premises shall mean any building
MULTI-      under one roof which contains two (2) or more complete dwelling units. For
FAMILY      avoidance of doubt, this definition is separate from definitions of multi-
PREMISES:   family premises or similar definitions set forth in other titles of the City
            Code, including Title 11 and Title 12.
            In addition to the record titleholder, any person residing in, renting,
OWNER:      leasing, occupying, operating or transacting business in any premises, and as
            between such parties the duties, responsibilities, liabilities and obligations
            hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.
PRIVATE     A non-publicly owned street, road, or driveway. City-provided services may be
STREET:     conditionally provided on private streets.
            Any person who collects bulk refuse, household waste, building waste or
PRIVATE     building debris from premises owned or occupied by him within the city and
WASTE       transports said wastes over the streets of the city but shall not be deemed to
COLLECTOR:  include any governmental body or private party collecting by virtue of
            contract with a governmental body or agency.
            Those materials which are capable of being recycled and which would otherwise
            be processed or disposed of as solid waste. Recyclable materials include, but
            not limited to, newspaper and accompanying inserts, magazines, corrugated
RECYCLABLE  cardboard, mixed and office paper, phonebooks, tissue, snack and cereal boxes,
MATERIAL:   catalogs, shredded paper, mail, paperback books, all plastic bottles and
            containers (#1 through #7), steel cans, aluminum cans, glass containers, and
            any other materials the Waste Commission of Scott County determines to be
            recyclable.
RECYCLING:  The separation, collection, processing, recovering and sale or reuse of
            materials which would otherwise be disposed of as solid waste.
            Putrescible and non-putrescible wastes including but not limited to garbage,
REFUSE:     rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residues, street cleanings,
            market and industrial solid wastes and sewage treatment wastes in dry or
            semisolid form. (IAC § 567-100.2)
RESIDENTIAL Single-family dwellings and multi-family dwellings that have direct access to
PREMISE:    a public street.
            Non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible and noncombustible
RUBBISH:    wastes, such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, wood,
            glass, bedding, crockery or litter of any kind. (IAC § 567-100.2)
SANITARY    A method of treating solid waste so that it does not produce a hazard to the
DISPOSAL:   public health or safety or create a nuisance. (IAC § 567-100.2)
            All facilities and appurtenances including all real and personal property
SANITARY    connected with such facilities, which are acquired, purchased, constructed,
DISPOSAL    reconstructed, equipped, improved, extended, maintained, or operated to
PROJECT:    facilitate the final disposition of solid waste without creating a significant
            hazard to the public health or safety, and which are approved by the IDNR
            director. (Iowa Code § 455B.301)
SINGLE      The recycling process where all recyclable materials as designated by the city
STREAM      are placed co-mingled into a city-owned container(s) for collection.
RECYCLING:
            garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar discarded solid or semisolid
SOLID       materials, including but not limited to such materials resulting from
WASTE:      industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic activities. For purposes of
            this chapter, hazardous waste, toxic waste, or recyclable material is not
            included within the definition of solid waste.
            All discarded household appliances including, but not limited to,
WHITE       refrigerators, freezers, air conditioners, dehumidifiers, clothes washers and
GOODS:      dryers, conventional and microwave ovens, ranges and stoves, dishwashers,
            water heaters and softeners, furnaces, garbage disposals, trash compactors,
            heat pumps, humidifiers, air compressor and electric motors.
            Organic debris such as grass clippings, leaves, garden wastes, pruning’s,
YARD WASTE: weeds, brush and tree branches produced as a part of the yard and garden
            development and maintenance. “Yard waste” does not include tree stumps or
            branches greater than six inches (6") in diameter.
            2-ply, fifty (50) pound wet strength Kraft type paper bags which are
YARD WASTE  degradable or biodegradable, with a maximum capacity of thirty (30) gallons,
BAG:        manufactured for the purpose of containing yard waste for regular collection
            and disposal and which display a printed statement designating that the bag is
            intended to hold yard waste. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
 
8-3A-3: SPECIAL CLEANUP ACTIVITIES:
The mayor, upon consultation with the director of public works and city
administrator, may establish times wherein the public works department shall
perform extra or special cleanup activities. During these cleanup times, rules
governing collections may be amended or suspended. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3A-4: CITY AUTHORITY REGARDING WASTE COLLECTION:
   A.   The city may employ persons or firms in such numbers as the council
shall authorize as city waste collectors and shall license persons engaged in
the business of collecting, transporting, processing or disposing of solid
waste, yard waste, and recycling.
   B.   The director shall be responsible for the collection, transportation
and disposal of all refuse; and is hereby authorized to adopt reasonable and
necessary rules and regulations to carry out the intent of this chapter as
follows:
      1.   Specifications for solid waste containers, including the type,
composition, equipment, size, weight and shape thereof.
      2.   Weight limitations on the combined weight of solid waste containers.
      3.   Preparation and drainage of garbage deposited in solid waste
containers.
      4.   Sanitation, maintenance and replacement of solid waste containers.
      5.   Schedules and routes for collection and transportation of solid
waste by city personnel.
      6.   Collection points of solid waste containers.
      7.   Storage of solid waste.
      8.   Records of quantity and types of solid waste received at disposal
facilities.
      9.   Handling of hazardous wastes, special wastes, toxic wastes,
sludge’s, ashes, agricultural waste, construction waste, bulky items, tires,
automobiles, oils, greases, yard waste, batteries, appliances and recyclables.
      10.   Such other rules and regulations as the director may establish from
time to time, consistent with the intent of this chapter. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-
2022)
8-3A-5: SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED:
It is the duty of each owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of all refuse
accumulating on the owner’s premises. In no event shall refuse, yard waste,
construction waste, ashes, or other material be allowed to accumulate on
property for longer than fifteen (15) days. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3A-6: HEALTH AND FIRE HAZARD:
It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises, improved
or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste that
constitute a health, sanitation, or fire hazard. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3A-7: OPEN BURNING:
No person shall allow, cause, or permit open burning of garbage where the
products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passing through a
chimney or stack without first obtaining a permit and conducting such burning
in accordance with the International Fire Code, as adopted and amended. (Ord.
05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3A-8: SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED:
All yard waste shall be separated by the owner or occupant from all other solid
waste accumulated on the premises and shall be composted on the premises or
placed for collection as defined in City Code 8-3A-14. It is prohibited and
will deemed a violation hereof for any owner, lessee or occupant of any
residential, commercial or institutional property in the city to put into or
cause to be put into the solid waste collection system of the city any yard
waste. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3A-9: LITTERING PROHIBITED:
No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized collection
and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles provided for such
purpose. When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle, the driver of the motor
vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case where doubt exists as to
which occupant of the motor vehicle actually discarded the litter. (Iowa Code §
455B.363) (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3A-10: OPEN DUMPING PROHIBITED:
No person shall dump or deposit or permit the dumping or depositing of any
solid waste on the surface of the ground or into a body or stream of water at
any place other than a sanitary disposal project, unless a special permit to
dump or deposit solid waste or yard waste on land owned or leased by such
person has been obtained from the Iowa Department of Natural Resources.
However, this section does not prohibit composting yard waste in accordance
with this chapter or prohibit the use of dirt, stone, brick or similar
inorganic material for fill, landscaping, excavation, or grading at places
other than a sanitary disposal project. (Iowa Code § 455B.307 and IAC § 567-
100.2) (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3A-11: HAZARDOUS WASTE:
No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for city
collection any hazardous substance or hazardous waste as defined in City Code
8-3-2. Hazardous substances and hazardous wastes shall be transported by the
owner, responsible person or his or her agent, to a place of safe deposit or
disposal as prescribed by the rules and regulations of the Iowa Department of
Natural Resources. Persons improperly disposing of hazardous solid waste
materials by placing them for collection at the curb shall be responsible for
all costs incurred by the city on account thereof, including but not limited to
costs associated with injury to city or authority personnel, damage to city or
authority property, or cleanup of city or authority property or equipment.
(Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3A-12: PREPARATION OF WASTES FOR COLLECTION:
The following practices must be performed by the property owner or resident, if
other than the owner, prior to collection by the city or its designee:
   A.   All garbage, paper scraps, letters, sweepings, excelsior, rags, pet
waste, and other similar rubbish shall be thoroughly drained of all liquid and
enclosed in securely tied or sealed plastic or paper bags prior to being placed
in city-owned containers for collection in order to minimize blowing or loss of
material when the containers are emptied. Personal containers are not
acceptable and will not be emptied.
   B.   The container shall not be overfilled, and the lid shall be closed to
the greatest extent possible by the residential customer at the time of pickup.
   C.   Garbage shall not be compressed into a container so as to prevent the
material from being dumped upon the first tipping of the container. City
employees are not be allowed to reach into the container.
   D.   City crews will not pick up garbage that has been spread on the ground
by whatever source while awaiting collection. It remains the responsibility of
the person leaving the garbage for collection to clean up any mess spread on
the ground even if done by others.
   E.   Ashes shall not be placed in any city-owned container unless they have
been allowed to cool a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours or have been
thoroughly and completely watered down and drained off with no possibility of
fire remaining. When cooled, they shall be enclosed in securely tied or sealed
paper bags or some other type of non-combustible material prior to being placed
in city-owned containers for collection. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3A-13: SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING CONTAINERS:
Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing or renting any premises,
dwelling unit or any place where refuse accumulates shall provide, and at all
times maintain in good order and repair, sufficient containers in number and
size to hold such refuse accumulated therein between collection periods.
   A.   Container Specifications: Waste storage containers shall comply with
the following specifications:
      1.   Residential waste containers:
         a.   Only solid waste and recycling containers provided by the city
are allowed for curbside collection, with the specific size of the solid waste
container chosen by the residential customer. If a resident requests an
additional container(s), an additional monthly fee will be charged to the
resident. These containers shall be leak-proof, waterproof and fitted with a
fly tight lid and shall be properly covered at all times except when depositing
waste therein or removing the contents thereof.
         b.   City-owned containers shall be assigned to particular residential
premise and shall remain at that residential premise in the event the owner or
occupant moves. Users of these containers shall not abuse or damage them and
shall be liable for any loss or damage not caused by normal use. Worn
containers shall be replaced by the city at no additional expense to the
property owner.
         c.   In the event of refuse accumulation beyond the capacity of the
container, the person producing or responsible for the refuse shall dispose of
the same by placing the refuse in a plastic garbage bag, thirty two (32) gallon
or smaller, with a city refuse collection sticker attached. These plastic
garbage bags shall be sealed and of sufficient strength to hold the contents
without rupturing or leaking when lifted.
      2.   Commercial waste containers:
         a.   Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing or renting any
commercial premises where solid waste accumulates and where its storage in
city-owned containers as required above is impractical, or in such cases that
the city indicates residential-type service is not feasible, shall maintain
metal bulk storage containers or dumpsters approved by the city.
   B.   Storage of containers.
      1.   Residential solid waste and recycling containers shall be stored in
a building on the premises, or behind the front building line against the
principal structure or accessory structure and screened from visibility to the
greatest extent possible. The storage of containers shall not result in the
creation of a public nuisance.
      2.   Commercial solid waste containers shall be placed in the location
specified on the site plan approved by the city, and screened to limit
visibility of the containers and to contain litter and debris. The storage site
shall be well drained; fully accessible to collection equipment, public health
personnel and fire inspection personnel.
   C.   Owner’s responsibility. All owners of residential and commercial
premises shall be responsible for proper storage of all garbage and yard waste
to prevent materials from being blown or scattered around neighboring yards and
streets. All garbage shall be bagged before it is placed in solid waste
containers in order to minimize blowing or loss of material when the containers
are emptied.
   D.   Non-conforming Containers. Solid waste placed in containers that are
not in compliance with the provisions of this section will not be collected.
(Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3A-14: PLACEMENT AND TIMES OF WASTES FOR COLLECTION:
   A.   Solid waste and recycling containers, yard waste and bulky waste
awaiting collection shall be placed at the curb or alley line by the owner or
occupant of the premises served. Placement for all waste shall be placed at the
curb or alley line before 6:00 a.m. on the day of collection but shall not be
placed before 5:00 p.m. of the day prior to their regularly scheduled
collection day. All containers shall be removed from a public street within
twelve (12) hours after collection.
   B.   All containers shall be placed at least three feet (3') from other
solid waste or recycling containers, yard waste, bulky waste, and at least
three feet (3') from any fixed object and structures.
   C.   No solid waste or recycling containers, yard waste, or bulky waste
shall be placed upon any sidewalk, crosswalk, roadway, or alley way, so as to
obstruct or block the free flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, and shall
not be placed on neighboring property. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3A-15: PROHIBITED PRACTICES:
It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Unlawful Use of Containers. Deposit refuse in any solid waste container
(s) not assigned to the owner or occupant receiving city collection services;
   B.   Interfere with Collectors. Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether the equipment or collectors are those of the
city, those licensed by the city, or those operating under contract by the
city;
   C.   Incinerators. Burn rubbish or garbage except in incinerators designed
for high temperature operation, in which solid, semi-solid, liquid or gaseous
combustible refuse is ignited and burned efficiently, and from which the solid
residues contain little or no combustible material, as acceptable to the
Environmental Protection Commission;
   D.   Scavenging. Take, collect, pick up or caused to be removed any solid
waste which has been placed out for collection on any premises, unless such
person is an authorized solid waste collector or has a valid junk dealer permit
issued under City Code
3-8-2.
   E.   Unlawful Disposal. Dispose of refuse at any facility or location which
is not a sanitary disposal project. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3A-16: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a civil
penalty as set forth in the schedule of civil penalties under City Code
1-4-2. Each day that a municipal infraction occurs and/or is permitted to exist
constitutes a separate offense. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
ARTICLE B. SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
8-3B-1: RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION SERVICE:
   A.   The city shall provide for the collection of properly contained,
bundled or placed solid waste, yard waste, bulky waste, and recyclable
materials from residential premises only.
   B.   The director may exempt certain dwellings from the city’s collection
service herein if the director determines that the dwelling and an adjacent
establishment, which generates commercial solid waste, is part of one (1)
complex of buildings, which together serve a unified purpose. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-
2022)
8-3B-2: COMMERCIAL COLLECTION SERVICE:
   A.   The owners or operators of commercial premises shall provide for the
collection of solid waste produced upon the premises.
   B.   The director may, at his discretion, provide for the collection of
commercial solid waste and recycling where bulk waste containers cannot be
serviced, and/or where the waste generated is too small to support a bulk waste
container. If approved by the director, collection shall be from a public
street only, and the services shall be identical to residential premises except
commercial premises will not receive bulky waste collection or yard waste
collection services. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3B-3: PRIVATE STREET COLLECTION SERVICE:
   A.   Residents living on privately-owned streets, within mobile or
manufactured home parks, or within multi-family communities that have indirect
access to a public street desiring city collection services may be eligible for
certain city collection services as determined by the director, provided an
agreement to indemnify and hold harmless the city, its employees, and agents
from any and all liability, damages, claims, costs, expenses, interest, and
reasonable attorney fees for any damage that may occur to their private street
(s) relating to or arising out of the collection of solid waste, and further
provided that all conditions set forth by the director for city collection
services are followed. The following factors shall be considered in determining
whether the private street(s) are eligible for city residential collection
services:
      1.   Streets shall be constructed to a standard to support our
collections vehicles.
      2.   Streets must be paved to a width of at least twelve feet (12'),
exclusive of any areas where parking is permitted.
      3.   Streets must have ample turnarounds sufficient in size to
accommodate the city’s collection vehicles to eliminate backing in or out of
the private street(s).
      4.   Streets must be maintained for safe ingress and egress of collection
vehicles, including appropriate winter maintenance and snow removal.
      5.   Streets must have a minimum of fourteen feet (14') vertical
clearance trees or power lines.
   B.   If all of the conditions outlined in subsection (A) above are
satisfied, all designated residents may be eligible for city residential
collection services listed in this chapter, must comply with provisions of this
chapter, and shall be assessed fees accordingly.
   C.   If the director determines that the requirements in subsection (A)
above are not met, residents may still be eligible for city collection services
provided they bring their solid waste, yard waste, recycling, and bulky waste
to the nearest point abutting a public street, or utilize private service
providers. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3B-4: COLLECTION VEHICLES:
   A.   Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of
garbage and similar putrescible waste or solid waste containing those materials
shall be leak-proof, durable and of easily cleanable construction.
   B.   They shall be cleaned to prevent nuisances, pollution or insect
breeding and shall be maintained in good repair so as to prevent leaking oil or
hydraulic fluid onto city streets. (IAC § 567-104.9[455B]) (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-
2022)
8-3B-5: LOADING:
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of any solid
waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents will not
fall, drag, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be equipped with a top or
canvas cover, tailgate and sideboards as required such that the contents will
be retained therein and will not spill, leak, or blow out of the vehicle or
have refuse extend beyond the sides or ends of the vehicle. Where spillage does
occur, the material shall be picked up immediately by the collector or
transporter and returned to the vehicle or container and the area properly
cleaned. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3B-6: FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION:
The following collection frequencies shall apply within the city:
   A.   Residential solid waste and yard waste shall be collected within the
city once a week. Such weekly collection is mandatory. Recyclable material and
bulky waste shall be collected every other week on the same collection day as
the regularly scheduled collection day for solid waste.
   B.   Commercial premises shall be collected as frequently as may be
necessary to protect against health, safety and fire hazards, but not less than
once a week. Such weekly collection is mandatory. Private waste collectors
shall not make waste collection within five hundred feet (500') of a
residential zone before 7:00 a.m. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3B-7: COLLECTION OF RECYCLABLES:
   A.   The city has established a voluntary single stream curbside recycling
program, pursuant to which recyclable materials are collected in ninety-six
(96) gallon containers provided by the city for that purpose. Persons owning or
residing in residential premises who elect to participate in the curbside
recycling program shall place unsorted recyclable materials only in the city-
owned containers for bi-weekly collection. There will be no charge for
additional containers provided.
   B.   Placing residential solid waste or yard waste in recycling containers
is prohibited. If the director determines that the owner or occupant of a
residential premises is not using the recycling containers as intended,
including placing garbage or yard waste in recycling containers, the city may
elect to suspend recycling service and remove the container(s) from the
premises. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3B-8: COLLECTION OF YARD WASTE:
   A.   Yard waste collection service is provided for residential premises
only. The amount of residential yard waste in approved yard waste bags and
bundles of tree debris placed for regular residential collection by the city or
a licensed waste collector shall not be limited.
   B.   Tree debris, branches, trunks and stumps resulting from the removal of
trees by a tree service contractor shall not be placed for collection by the
city, but shall be removed by a licensed hauler at the expense of the owner or
tree service.
   C.   All yard waste and tree debris shall be separated by the owner or
occupant from all other solid waste at the time of regular collection and
disposal.
   D.   All yard waste must be in an approved yard waste bag affixed with a
city yard waste collection sticker in a visible location. The bag shall be
closed by tight sealing method of suitable type, such as a drawstring, sticker,
or multiple folds, and not weigh more than fifty (50) pounds when placed for
collection.
   E.   Tree debris and brush under six inches (6") in diameter, prepared for
regular collection and disposal by the city, shall be securely tied in bundles
that have a maximum diameter of eighteen inches (18"), a maximum length of five
feet (5'), and a maximum weight of fifty (50) pounds when placed for
collection. If there is insufficient quantity to securely bundle, all tree
debris and brush shall be cut down and placed in an approved yard waste bag
with an affixed city approved yard waste sticker. No loose tree debris will be
picked up. Pieces of tree branches greater than six inches (6") in diameter
shall not be included in a bundle but shall be disposed by special collection
arrangements with a private hauler. Christmas trees shall be placed for
collection at the schedule, location and condition as prescribed by the
director.
   F.   The city may refuse to collect any non-conforming yard waste, including
any yard waste bag, if it contains material other than yard waste or debris or
if it weighs more than fifty (50) pounds. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3B-9: COLLECTION OF BULKY WASTE:
   A.   Bulky waste collection service is provided for residential premises
only. Non-residential generators are responsible for solid waste removal from
their property to a permitted disposal site.
   B.   Bulky waste includes any large household items, by their size and
shape, which cannot be properly enclosed within city-owned containers. Bulk
items include, but are not limited to, all furniture, electronics, mattresses,
box springs, white goods, gas grills, wheelbarrows, bicycles, lawn equipment,
carpet and carpet padding, and all other fixtures and appliances. For a list of
acceptable items for bulky waste collection, refer to the City of Bettendorf
website.
   C.   Bulky waste is not overflow household garbage produced in excess of the
city-owned container. Cardboard boxes and/or containers containing solid refuse
is not considered bulky waste and will not be collected. Cardboard boxes shall
be broken down to fit inside the city-owned recycling container.
   D.   Bulky waste must be separated and apart from solid waste and recycling
containers, and yard waste awaiting collection.
   E.   Bulky waste awaiting collection shall be placed neatly and in as tight
a stack as possible at the curb or alley line by the owner or occupant of the
premises served.
   F.   Items resulting from an eviction, set-out, or foreclosure will not be
collected by the city. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3B-10: UNIFORM COLLECTION FROM RESIDENTIAL PREMISES:
The collection of solid waste and recyclable material from residential premises
and the maintenance of the availability of such service, whether or not the
service is used regularly or at all by the occupant of the residential
premises, are hereby declared a benefit to such premises at least equal to the
monthly charge of the smallest container offered by the city. Such charge shall
be paid whether the occupant uses the residential premises solid waste and
recyclable material collection service or not. Nothing herein is to be
construed so as to prevent the owner from transporting solid waste, recyclables
or yard waste accumulating upon premises owned, occupied or used by such owner,
provided such refuse is disposed of at an approved facility. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-
2022)
8-3B-11: SOLID WASTE GENERATED THROUGH PRIVATE ENTERPRISE:
The city shall not be responsible for the collection and disposal of
construction waste, bulk rubbish, brush or any other forms of solid waste
generated or produced by contractors, tree trimmers, or persons doing work for
profit or personal gain. Nor will any such collection of solid waste be made
from lot or land clearing projects including remodeling or alterations of homes
or businesses, new construction, or other private projects or improvements,
whether or not a contractor is employed. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3B-12: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property for
the purpose of collecting solid waste and recyclables therefrom as required by
this chapter; however, solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or
other residential buildings. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3B-13: LICENSED WASTE COLLECTORS:
No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting, processing
or disposing of solid waste with the corporate limits of the city without first
obtaining from the city an annual license; this requirement shall not apply to
city waste collectors.
   A.   Application. Application for a license required by this chapter shall
be made at the office of the City Clerk on forms provided by the clerk. This
license shall be valid for twelve (12) months and must be displayed to city
inspectors upon request.
   B.   Insurance.
      1.   No collector’s permit shall be issued until and unless the applicant
therefor, in addition to all other requirements set forth, shall file and
maintain with the city evidence of satisfactory public liability insurance
covering all operations of the applicant pertaining to the business and all
equipment and vehicles to be operated in the conduct thereof in minimum
amounts, as set by the Clerk.
      2.   Each insurance policy required hereunder shall include as a part
thereof provisions requiring the insurance carrier to notify the city of the
expiration, cancellation or other termination of coverage not less than ten
(10) days prior to the effective date of the action. All insurance coverage and
limits shall meet those of all state and federal requirements, if greater.
   C.   Permit fee. The fee for such license shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00).
   D.   Permit issued. If the Clerk upon investigation finds the application to
be in order and determines that the applicant will collect, transport, process
or dispose of solid waste without hazard to the public health or damage to the
environment and in conformity with law and ordinance, the requested permit
shall be issued to be effective for a period of one year from the date
approved.
   E.   Permit renewal. An annual permit may be renewed simply upon payment of
the required fee, provided the applicant agrees to continue to operate in
substantially the same manner as provided in the original application and
provided the applicant furnishes the Clerk with a current listing of vehicles,
equipment and facilities in use.
   F.   Permit not transferable. No permit authorized by this chapter may be
transferred to another person.
   G.   Permit revocation. Failure on the part of any permittee to collect,
transport and dispose solid waste in accordance with laws and ordinances of the
city shall be cause for the Clerk on reasonable notice and hearing to revoke
the permit. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3B-14: GARBAGE AND RECYCLING COLLECTION RATES:
The city shall utilize an automated garbage collection service and the rate for
the combined garbage and recycling collection shall be as established in
subsections B and C of this section, effective April 1, 2024:
   A.   Yard Waste: The rate for the sticker which is affixed to the yard waste
bag shall be one dollar sixty cents ($1.60). Each bag shall require a separate
sticker for collection.
   B.   Garbage and Recycling: Users of garbage collection service shall be
charged a fee as follows:
 
   Garbage & Recycling             Monthly Fee
32 gallon cart/weekly collection      $14.20
65 gallon cart/weekly collection      $18.88
95 gallon cart/weekly collection      $23.61
Quarterly handling charge per billing $4.00
 
      Effective April 1, 2022, any new Solid Waste accounts will be serviced
with either a sixty-four (64)-gallon or a ninety-six (96)-gallon container
only.
      Effective April 1, 2022, through April 1, 2024, the thirty-two (32)-
gallon every other week service will be phased out over this two (2) year
period and the resident will be responsible to pay for the thirty-two (32)-
gallon weekly service thereafter.
      If you currently have any thirty-two (32)-gallon service, you will be
able to continue this service and pay the monthly fees accordingly. However, if
you move within the city, or your container is lost, stolen, or damaged, you
will be given a sixty-four (64)-gallon container. Residents will be responsible
to pay the monthly service for this size of container moving forward.
   C.   Container Exchange: Users wanting to exchange an existing container for
a different sized container will be billed a twenty-five dollar ($25.00)
exchange fee.
   D.   Container Assessment: Garbage and recycling containers distributed to
participants of the city's solid waste collection program are the property of
the city. A seventy-five dollar ($75.00) fee per container will be assessed to
participants for replacement of city containers due to loss, improper use or
damage by the resident(s) or unreported theft.
   E.   Excess Garbage: Users who have garbage beyond what the container will
hold shall place a special garbage sticker on the bag of garbage to be
collected; only garbage bags bearing the sticker shall be collected. The
special garbage sticker shall be three dollars ($3.00) per bag.
   F.   Nonpayment; Lien: Users shall pay the fee charged in subsections B and
C of this section on a quarterly basis, with such billing to the address of
service by the city. In the event the bill is not paid, the unpaid amount shall
be assessed against the property and become a lien thereon, payable in the
manner of Property Taxes as allowed by Iowa Code § 384.84, or as it may later
be amended.
   G.   Date Due; Penalty: All garbage and recycling charges are due and
payable thirty (30) days following the date of billing. When a bill becomes
past due, a late charge equal to ten percent (10%) of the garbage and recycling
charge shall be added to the original bill and a new bill shall be mailed to
the user. The revised bill is due and payable fifteen (15) days following the
date the first bill became due and payable. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022; amd. Ord.
09-23, 3-21-2023; Ord. 10-24, 3-19-2024; Ord. 06-25, 4-1-2025)
8-3B-15: GRATUITIES TO CITY COLLECTORS:
Tips or gratuities shall not be offered to city employees to perform special or
unlawful service in connection with City waste collection. Solicitation of tips
or gratuities by city waste collectors is prohibited. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3B-16: COUNTERFEIT STICKERS:
No person shall alter a garbage or yard waste sticker, counterfeit such
sticker, or use or attempt to use an altered or counterfeit sticker in an
attempt to cause garbage or yard waste to be collected without paying the
proper fee. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
8-3B-17: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a civil
penalty as set forth in the schedule of civil penalties under City Code
1-4-2. Each day that a municipal infraction occurs and/or is permitted to exist
constitutes a separate offense. (Ord. 05-22, 4-5-2022)
CHAPTER 4
SELF-SUPPORTED MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-4-1: District Established
8-4-2: District Boundaries
8-4-3: Related Benefit Area
8-4-4: Operation Fund
8-4-5: Operation Tax
8-4-6: Disbursements
8-4-7: Budget
8-4-1: DISTRICT ESTABLISHED:
There shall be and there is hereby created in the city a self-supported
municipal improvement district, as defined in Iowa Code Ch. 386 (the "Act"),
the name of which shall be the "Downtown Bettendorf Self-Supported Municipal
Improvement District" (sometimes hereinafter referred to as the "District"),
the purposes of which District are the undertaking of actions, and the design
and construction of any and all improvements, authorized by the Act and the
performance and administration, redevelopment, and revitalization of the
District, as authorized by the Act, any and all of which actions and
improvements are intended to benefit the property, businesses, and
constituencies within the District. (Ord. 15-19, 7-16-2019; amd. Ord. 21-24, 9-
17-2024)
8-4-2: DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
The district shall include all non-residentially assessed properties within the
following described boundary:
   Part of Sections 28 and 29, Township 78 North, Range 4 East of the 5th
Principal Meridian, in the City of Bettendorf, County of Scott, State of Iowa,
more particularly described as follows;
   BEGINNING at the southeast corner of Lot 2 in Steamboat Landing 2nd Addition
to the City of Bettendorf;
   thence Westerly along the north shoreline of the Mississippi River, a
distance of 1,790 more or less, to the easterly line of Lot 1 in Steamboat
Landing 2nd Addition;
   thence northerly along said easterly line, a distance of 820 feet more or
less, to the northerly line of said Lot 1;
   thence westerly along said northerly line, a distance of 1,550 feet more or
less, to the westerly line of said Lot 1;
   thence southerly along said westerly line, a distance of 650 feet more or
less to the north shoreline of the Mississippi River;
   thence westerly along said north shoreline, a distance of 4,550 feet more or
less to the east line of Arsenal View Court, an Addition to the City of
Bettendorf;
   thence Northerly along said east line, a distance of 220 feet more or less,
to the centerline of west bound lanes of River Drive;
   thence Northeasterly along said centerline, a distance of 550 feet more or
less, to the centerline of Grant Street;
   thence Easterly along said centerline, a distance of 2,560 feet more or
less, to the centerline of 14th Street;
   thence Northerly along said centerline, a distance of 760 feet more or less,
to the centerline of Mississippi Boulevard;
   thence Easterly along said centerline, a distance of 820 feet more or less,
to the centerline of 16th Street;
   thence Southerly along said centerline, a distance of 380 feet more or less,
to the centerline of Brown Street;
   thence Easterly along said centerline, a distance of 1,130 feet more or
less, to the centerline of 19th Street;
   thence Northeasterly along said centerline, a distance of 120 feet more or
less, to the centerline of Mississippi Boulevard;
   thence Easterly along said centerline, a distance of 1,130 feet more or
less, to the east line of 22nd Street;
   thence Northerly along said easterly right of way line and the westerly line
of the parcel containing the Bettendorf Community Center, a distance of 250
feet to the northerly line of said parcel;
   thence easterly along said northerly line, a distance of 230 feet more or
less, to the easterly line of said parcel;
   thence southerly along said easterly line, a distance of 650 feet more or
less, to the centerline of Grant Street;
   thence easterly along said centerline, a distance of 2,140 feet more or
less, to the centerline of 28th Street;
   thence Southerly along said centerline, a distance of 260 feet more or less,
to the north right of way line of a railroad;
   thence Westerly along said north right of way line, a distance of 695 feet
more or less, to the northerly extension of the east line of Lot 2 in Steamboat
Landing 2nd Addition;
   thence Southerly along said east line and its northerly extension, a
distance of 1,280 feet more or less, to the POINT OF BEGINNING. (Ord. 15-19, 7-
16-2019; amd. Ord. 21-24, 9-17-2024)
8-4-3: RELATED BENEFIT AREA:
It is hereby found and determined that all of the property within the District
is similarly related so that the present and potential use or enjoyment of the
property is benefitted by the condition, performance or administration,
redevelopment, revitalization and maintenance of the District and the owners of
the property in the District have a present and potential benefit from the
condition, performance of administration, redevelopment, revitalization and
maintenance of the District. (Ord. 15-19, 7-16-2019; amd. Ord. 21-24, 9-17-
2024)
8-4-4: OPERATION FUND:
Pursuant to the provisions of Iowa Code Ch. 386, there is hereby established
and created a self-supported improvement district operation fund which shall be
known as the "Downtown Bettendorf Self-Supported Municipal Improvement District
Operation Fund", for which operation fund the city may certify taxes (the
"operation tax") against the property, as defined in Iowa Code Ch. 386
(excluding property assessed as residential property for property tax purposes)
within the District (the "property") each year, in addition to all other taxes,
commencing with the levy of taxes for collection in the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2025. The purpose of the levy is for paying such expenses of the
District as are authorized by Iowa Code Ch. 386, including, but not limited to,
the administrative expenses of the District and part or all of the maintenance
expenses of improvements or self-liquidating improvements, as defined in Iowa
Code Ch. 386. This levy shall continue annually for a period of five (5) years,
commencing with the levy of funds for collection in the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2025. (Ord. 15-19, 7-16-2019; amd. Ord. 21-24, 9-17-2024)
8-4-5: OPERATION TAX:
The rate of Operation Tax to be levied annually, in addition to all other
taxes, shall not exceed a rate of two dollars seventy five cents ($2.75) per
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) of taxable valuation. (Ord. 15-19, 7-16-2019; amd.
Ord. 21-24, 9-17-2024)
8-4-6: DISBURSEMENTS:
The City may disburse the amounts collected in the operation fund, for one or
more of the following purposes, at such times, in such amounts, and under such
circumstances as shall be recommended to the City Council by the Downtown
Bettendorf Self-Supported Municipal Improvement District Operation Fund,
established pursuant to the Petition:
   A.   Enhanced maintenance, cleaning and upkeep of public spaces within the
District.
   B.   Graffiti removal on public property and private buildings within the
District.
   C.   Development, marketing, promotion and management of activities and
events within the District.
   D.   Capital, physical or other improvements designed to enhance the image,
appearance, and functionality of the District.
   E.   Research and planning services benefitting the District.
   F.   Activities and operations benefitting the District under any agreements
with the City of Bettendorf or other public or quasi-public entities.
   G.   Recommendations regarding, and the promotion of, the District and the
advancement of the District, including with respect to the uses of public
spaces within the District, the types of public spaces and services within the
District, the services and improvements within the District, policies and
practices for the District, business retention and attraction within the
District, and activities and events within the District.
   H.   Other activities intended to benefit or further the purposes or
interests of the District and the development and advancement of the District.
(Ord. 15-19, 7-16-2019; amd. Ord. 21-24, 9-17-2024)
8-4-7: BUDGET:
The Downtown Bettendorf Self-Supported Municipal Improvement District, as a
condition of the disbursement of funds from the operation fund, to submit to
the Bettendorf City Council, no later than December 1 of each year, a budget
showing, in general terms, the proposed expenditures of such funds for the
fiscal year beginning on the next July 1. (Ord. 15-19, 7-16-2019; amd. Ord. 21-
24, 9-17-2024)
TITLE 9
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 1
STORMWATER UTILITY
SECTION:
9-1-1: Purpose And Findings
9-1-2: Establishment Of Utility
9-1-3: Definitions
9-1-4: Scope Of Responsibility For Drainage System
9-1-5: On Site Systems, Enforcement And Inspections
9-1-6: Determine And Modify Service Charges Or Fees
9-1-7: Stormwater Service Charges And Fees
9-1-8: Exemptions And Credits Applicable To Service Charges
9-1-9: Service Charge Billing, Delinquencies And Collections
9-1-10: Appeals
9-1-1: PURPOSE AND FINDINGS:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a policy and procedure for
managing and controlling the quantity and quality of stormwater runoff,
wherever it may be found, within the City limits. The management shall include
the establishment of a stormwater utility to provide revenues for whatever
aspects of this requirement are deemed appropriate by the City Council.
   B.   The stormwater needs in the City include, but are not limited to,
protecting the public safety, health, and welfare of its citizens. Stormwater
management programs and facilities result in both service and benefit to all
properties, property owners, citizens, and residents of Bettendorf in a variety
of ways. The service and benefit rendered or resulting from provision of
stormwater management systems and facilities may differ depending on many
factors and considerations, including, but not limited to, location, demands,
and impacts imposed on the stormwater systems and programs and risk exposure.
   C.   The City presently owns and operates numerous stormwater management
systems and facilities which have been developed over many years. The future
usefulness of the existing stormwater systems owned and operated by the City,
and of additions and improvements thereto, rests on the ability of the City to
effectively manage, protect, control, regulate, use, and enhance stormwater
systems and facilities in Bettendorf in concert with the management of other
water resources in the City. In order to do so, the City must have adequate and
stable funding for its stormwater management program operating and capital
investment needs.
   D.   The City Council finds, concludes, and determines that a utility
provides the most practical and appropriate means of properly delivering and
funding stormwater management services in Bettendorf.
   E.   An equitable approach to funding stormwater management services and
facilities can be provided by adopting a schedule of service charges upon
properties that is related to the burden of stormwater quality and quantity
requirements and costs posed by properties throughout the City. Such schedule
of service charges can be complemented by other funding methods which address
specific needs. Impervious area is the most important factor influencing
stormwater service requirements and costs posed by properties throughout the
City, and therefore is an appropriate parameter for calculating stormwater
service charges.
   F.   The City may be required under Federal and State mandates to provide
increased quantity or quality controls to mitigate the impacts of pollutants
that may be discharged from the stormwater collection system. Therefore, it is
appropriate to impose a stormwater user charge upon all users of property that
may discharge, directly or indirectly, into the storm sewer system, whether
private or public in nature. (2008 Code § 31-150)
9-1-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF UTILITY:
   A.   Utility: There is hereby established a stormwater management utility
within the City which shall be responsible for creating revenue for stormwater
management throughout the City's corporate limits, and shall provide for the
management, protection, control, regulation, use, and enhancement of stormwater
systems and facilities. Such utility shall be under the operational direction
of the public works director. The corporate limits of the city, as increased
from time to time, shall constitute the boundaries of the stormwater utility
district.
   B.   Enterprise Fund: The city shall establish a stormwater enterprise fund
in the city budget and accounting system, separate and apart from its general
fund, for the purpose of dedicating and protecting all funding applicable to
the purposes and responsibilities of the utility, including, but not limited
to, rentals, rates, charges, fees, and licenses as may be established by the
city council. All revenues and receipts of the stormwater utility shall be
deposited promptly upon receipt into the stormwater enterprise fund, to be held
and invested in trust for the purposes dedicated, and expended exclusively for
purposes of the utility, including, but not limited to, operational actions,
capital project construction, or payment of bonds funding capital projects. No
other funds of the city shall be deposited in the stormwater enterprise fund or
commingled with dedicated stormwater revenues, except that other revenues,
receipts, and resources not accounted for in the stormwater enterprise fund,
including grants, loans, and bond proceeds, may be combined with and applied to
stormwater management capital projects as deemed appropriate by the city
council upon recommendation of the public works director. (2008 Code § 31-151)
9-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CUSTOMERS OF THE STORMWATER UTILITY: Shall include all persons, properties, and
entities serviced by and/or benefiting the utility's acquisition, management,
maintenance, extension, and improvement of the public stormwater management
systems and facilities, and regulation of public and private stormwater
systems, facilities, and activities related thereto, and person, properties and
entities which will ultimately be served or benefited as a result of the
stormwater management program. See also definitions of Occupant or User.
DETACHED DWELLING UNIT: Developed land containing one structure which is not
attached to another dwelling and which contains one or more bedrooms, with a
bathroom and kitchen facilities, designed for occupancy by one family. Detached
dwelling units may include houses, manufactured homes, and mobile homes located
on one or more individual lots or parcels of land. Developed land may be
classified as a detached dwelling unit despite the presence of incidental
structures associated with residential uses such as garages, carports, or small
storage buildings, or the presence of a commercial use within the dwelling unit
so long as such use does not result in additional impervious areas, such as
parking spaces, playgrounds, or structures or additions to the building which
are used as offices, storage facilities, meeting rooms, classrooms, houses of
worship, or similar nonresidential uses. Detached dwelling unit shall not
include developed land containing: structures used primarily for nonresidential
purposes, manufactured homes, and mobile homes located within manufactured home
or mobile home parks where the land is owned by others than the owners of the
manufactured homes or mobile homes, or multiple dwelling unit residential
properties.
DEVELOPED LAND: Property altered from its natural state by the construction or
installation of more than two hundred (200) square feet of "impervious surface"
as defined herein.
DUPLEXES AND TRIPLEXES: Developed land containing two (2) (duplex) or three (3)
(triplex) attached residential dwelling units located on one or more parcels of
land. At a minimum, each dwelling unit shall be charged at least one ERU.
EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU) OF IMPERVIOUS AREA: The median average
impervious coverage of detached dwelling unit properties in the city of
Bettendorf as determined by the city, and shall be used as the basis for
determining stormwater service charges to detached dwelling unit properties or
classes of detached dwelling unit properties and other properties. Two thousand
five hundred (2,500) square feet of impervious area shall be one equivalent
unit.
HYDROLOGIC RESPONSE: The hydrologic response of a property is the manner and
means whereby stormwater collects, remains, infiltrates, and is conveyed from a
property. It is dependent on several factors including, but not limited to, the
presence of impervious area, the size, shape, topographic, vegetative, and
geologic conditions of a property, antecedent moisture conditions, and
groundwater conditions on a property.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Those areas which prevent or impede the infiltration of
stormwater into the soil as it enters natural conditions prior to development.
Common impervious areas include, but are not limited to, rooftops, sidewalks,
walkways, patio areas, driveways, parking lots, storage areas, compacted gravel
and soil surfaces, awnings and other fabric or plastic coverings, and other
surfaces which prevent or impede the natural infiltration of stormwater runoff
which existed prior to development.
MULTIPLE DWELLING UNIT RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES: Developed land whereon four (4)
or more attached residential dwelling units are located and shall include, but
not be limited to, apartment houses, condominiums, town homes, attached single-
family homes, boarding houses, group homes, hotels and motels, retirement
centers, and other structures in which four (4) or more family groups commonly
and normally reside or could reside. In the application of stormwater service
charge rates, multiple dwelling unit properties shall be treated as other
developed lands. At a minimum, each multiple dwelling unit shall be charged at
least one ERU.
OCCUPANT: The person residing or doing business on the property. In a family or
household situation, the person responsible for the obligation imposed shall be
the adult head of the household. In a shared dwelling or office situation, the
adult legally responsible for the management or condition of the property shall
be responsible.
OTHER DEVELOPED LAND: Shall mean, but shall not be limited to, multiple
dwelling unit residential properties, manufactured home and mobile home parks,
commercial and office buildings, public buildings and structures, industrial
and manufacturing buildings, storage buildings and storage areas covered with
impervious surfaces, parking lots, parks, recreation properties, public and
private schools, research stations, hospitals and convalescent centers and
agricultural uses covered by impervious surfaces.
OWNER: The legal owner(s) of record as shown on the tax rolls of Scott County
except where there is a recorded land sale contract, the purchaser thereunder
shall be deemed the owner.
SERVICE CHARGES: The periodic rate, fee or charge applicable to a parcel of
developed land, which charge shall be reflective of the service provided by the
city of Bettendorf stormwater utility. Service charges are based on measurable
parameters which influence the stormwater utility's cost of providing services
and facilities, with the most important factor being the amount of impervious
area on each parcel of developed land. The use of impervious areas as a service
charge rate parameter shall not preclude the use of other parameters, or the
grouping of properties having similar characteristics through the use of ranges
or rounding up or down to a consistent numerical interval, or the use of flat
rate charges for one or more classes of similarly situated properties whose
impact on the stormwater utility's cost of providing stormwater management
services and facilities is relatively consistent. Stormwater service charges
may also include special charges to the owners of particular properties for
services or facilities uniquely related to stormwater management of that
property, including, but not limited to, charges for development plan review,
inspection of development projects and on site stormwater control systems, and
enhanced levels of stormwater services above those normally provided by the
city.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS: Stormwater management systems address the issues
of drainage management (flooding) and environmental quality (pollution,
erosion, and sedimentation) of receiving rivers, streams, creeks, lakes, ponds,
and reservoirs through improvements, maintenance, regulation and funding of
plants, works, instrumentalities and properties used or useful in the
collection, retention, detention, and treatment of stormwater or surface water
drainage.
UNDEVELOPED LAND: Land in its unaltered natural state or which has been
modified to such minimal degree as to have a hydrologic response comparable to
land in an unaltered natural state shall be deemed undeveloped. Undeveloped
land shall have minimal concrete pavement, asphalt, or compacted gravel
surfaces or structures which create an impervious surface that would prevent
infiltration of stormwater or cause stormwater to collect, concentrate, or flow
in a manner materially different from that which would occur if the land was in
an unaltered natural state. For purposes of this chapter, undeveloped land
includes property altered from its natural state by the creation or
installation of less than two hundred (200) square feet of impervious surface.
USER: Any person who uses property which maintains connection to, discharges
to, or otherwise receives services from the city for stormwater management. The
occupant of any habitable property is deemed the user. If the property is not
occupied, then the owner shall be deemed the user. (2008 Code § 31-152)
9-1-4: SCOPE OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM:
   A.   The city drainage system consists of all rivers, streams, creeks,
branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainageways, channels, ditches, swales,
storm sewers, culverts, inlets, catch basins, pipes, head walls and other
structures, natural or manmade, within the political boundaries of the city
which control and/or convey stormwater through which the city intentionally
diverts surface waters from its public streets and properties. The city owns or
has legal access for purposes of operation, maintenance and improvements to
those segments of this system which: 1) are located within public streets,
rights of way, and easements; 2) are subject to easements of rights of entry,
rights of access, rights of use, or other permanent provisions for adequate
access for operation, maintenance, and/or improvement of systems and
facilities; or 3) are located on public lands to which the city has adequate
access for operation, maintenance, and/or improvement of systems and
facilities. Operation and maintenance of stormwater systems and facilities
which are located on private property or public property not owned by the city
and for which there has been no public dedication of such systems and
facilities for operation, maintenance, and/or improvement of the systems and
facilities shall be and remain the legal responsibility of the property owner.
   B.   It is the intent of this chapter to protect the public health, safety
and general welfare of all properties and persons in general, but not to create
any special duty or relationship with an individual person or to any specified
property within or without the boundaries of the city. The city expressly
reserves the right to assert all available immunities and defenses in any
action seeking to impose monetary damages upon the city, its officers,
employees and agents arising out of any alleged failure or breach of duty or
relationship as may now exist or hereafter be created. To the extent any permit
plan approval, inspection, or similar act is required by the city as a
condition precedent to any activity by or upon property not owned by the city,
pursuant to this or any other regulatory ordinance, regulation or rule of the
city under federal or state law, the issuance of such permit, plan approval, or
inspection shall not be deemed to constitute a warranty, express or implied,
nor shall it afford the basis for any action, including any action based on
failure to permit or negligent issuance of a permit, seeking the imposition of
money damages against the city, its officers, employees or agents. (2008 Code §
31-153)
9-1-5: ON SITE SYSTEMS, ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Property Owner Responsibility: All property owners and developers of
developed real property within the city shall provide, manage, maintain, and
operate on site stormwater systems sufficient to collect, convey, detain, and
discharge stormwater in a safe manner consistent with all City, State, and
Federal laws and regulations.
   B.   Failure To Meet Obligation May Constitute Nuisance: Pursuant to Iowa
Code section 364.12(3) or successor section, any failure to meet this
obligation may constitute a nuisance and may be subject to an abatement action
filed by the City. In the event a nuisance is found to exist, which the owner
fails to properly abate within such reasonable time as allowed by the City, the
City may enter upon the property and cause such work as is reasonably necessary
to be performed, with the actual cost thereof assessed against the owner in the
same manner as a tax levied against the property. The City shall have the
right, pursuant to the authority of this chapter, for its designated officers
and employees to enter upon private and public property owned by entities other
than the City, upon reasonable notice to the owner thereof, to inspect the
property and conduct surveys and engineering tests thereon in order to assure
compliance. (2008 Code § 31-154)
9-1-6: DETERMINE AND MODIFY SERVICE CHARGES OR FEES:
Stormwater service charges or fees shall be determined and modified from time
to time by action of the City Council. In setting or modifying such rates, it
shall be the objective of the Council to establish rates, fees and charges that
are fair and reasonable, reflect the value of stormwater management services
and facilities to those properties that benefit therefrom and, which together
with any other sources of revenue that may be made available to the stormwater
utility, will be sufficient to meet the cost of budgeted programs, services and
facilities, including, but not limited to, the payment of principal and
interest on revenue bond obligations incurred for construction and improvements
to the stormwater system, as applicable. (2008 Code § 31-155)
9-1-7: STORMWATER SERVICE CHARGES AND FEES:
   A.   Accrual Of Charges; Billing: Stormwater service charges shall accrue
beginning July 1, 2003, and shall be billed periodically thereafter to
customers, except as specific exemptions and credits may apply.
   B.   ERU Standards: The following ERU standards shall apply, effective April
1, 2025:
      1.   Charges: Stormwater service charges are per equivalent residential
unit (ERU) or increment thereof. The charge per ERU shall be five dollars and
ninety cents ($5.90) per month plus a four dollar ($4.00) quarterly handling
charge per billing.
      2.   Residential Detached Dwelling Units: Residential properties with
detached dwelling units shall be charged a stormwater fee based upon the amount
of impervious area found on the property. The calculations of impervious area
are based upon a formula that uses the total amount of square footage of land,
as shown on the official records at the Scott County assessor's office,
multiplied by a factor of thirty percent (30%). This value is then divided by
two thousand five hundred (2,500) to determine the amount of equivalent
residential units (ERUs) for that property. No property shall be charged less
than one ERU per month. No property shall be charged more than five (5) ERUs
per month.
      3.   Other Developed Lands: All developed lands not classified as
detached dwelling units shall be billed for one equivalent residential unit
(ERU) for each two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet of impervious
surface or increment thereof. (Ord. 05-16, 3-15-2016; amd. Ord. 04-22, 3-15-
2022; Ord. 09-23, 3-21-2023; Ord. 10-24, 3-19-2024; Ord. 06-25, 4-1-2025)
9-1-8: EXEMPTIONS AND CREDITS APPLICABLE TO SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Except as provided in this section, no public or private property shall
be exempt from stormwater utility service charges. No exception, credit,
offset, or other reduction in stormwater service charges shall be granted based
on the age, tax, or economic status, race, or religion of the customer, or
other condition unrelated to the stormwater utility's cost of providing
stormwater services and facilities. Streets, alleyways, and highways in the
public and private domain are exempt from utility service charges or connection
fees.
   B.   A stormwater utility service charge formula is available in the Office
of the City Engineer. The following areas are exempt from utility service
charges:
      1.   "Undeveloped land" as defined in this chapter shall be exempt from
stormwater service charges.
      2.   Railroad rights-of-way (tracks) shall be exempt from stormwater
service charges. However, railroad stations, maintenance buildings, or other
developed land used for railroad purposes shall not be exempt from stormwater
service charges.
      3.   All industrial operations which are required under State or Federal
law to obtain their own NPDES permit, when such operations do not require use
of or access to the City stormwater drainage system, shall be exempt from
stormwater service charges. (2008 Code § 31-156)
9-1-9: SERVICE CHARGE BILLING, DELINQUENCIES AND COLLECTIONS:
   A.   Billing; Payment Obligation; Delinquency:
      1.   A stormwater service charge bill may be sent through the United
States mail or by alternative means, notifying the customer of the amount of
the bill, the date the payment is due, and the date when past due. Failure to
receive a bill is not justification for nonpayment.
      2.   Regardless of the party to whom the bill is initially directed, the
owner of each parcel of developed land, as shown from public land records of
Scott County, shall be ultimately obligated to pay such fee.
      3.   If a customer is underbilled or if no bill is sent for developed
land, the City may back bill for a period of up to three (3) years, but shall
not assess penalties for any delinquency. Similarly, if it is discovered that a
customer has been overbilled, the City may credit the account for a period of
up to three (3) years, but no penalty or interest shall accrue.
      4.   A ten percent (10%) penalty and interest charge shall be billed
based on the delinquent balance on all monthly or quarterly billings.
   B.   Failure To Pay Bill; Lien: In the event the bill is not paid, the
unpaid amount shall be assessed against the property and become a lien thereon,
payable in the manner of property taxes as provided by State law. The Clerk
shall clarify for taxation purposes, in establishing property liens to the
County Auditor, all delinquent stormwater payments. For the purpose of
certification, the stormwater payment shall be designated as delinquent when
the same is shown and appears on the books carrying stormwater service payments
that have been unpaid for a period of thirty (30) days following its due date.
   C.   Billing On Common Statement With Other Utility Services: The stormwater
utility service charge may be billed on a common statement and collected along
with other City utility services, usually on a quarterly basis.
   D.   Suspension Of Service For Nonpayment: The City Council may order
suspension of service to those premises for which the stormwater service charge
is delinquent. (Ord. 20-13, 8-20-2013)
9-1-10: APPEALS:
Any person who believes the provisions of this chapter have been applied to
such person in error may appeal in the following manner:
   A.   An appeal shall be filed in writing with the City Public Works
Director. In the case of service charge appeals, the appeal shall include a
survey prepared by a registered land surveyor or professional engineer
containing information on the total property area, the impervious surface area,
and any other features or conditions which influence the hydrologic response of
the property to rainfall events.
   B.   Using the information provided by the appellant, the Director shall
conduct a technical review of the conditions on the property and respond to the
appeal in writing within thirty (30) days.
   C.   In response to an appeal, the Director may adjust the stormwater
service charge applicable to a property in conformance with the general purpose
and intent of this chapter.
   D.   A decision of the Director which is adverse to an appellant may be
further appealed to the City Council within thirty (30) days of receipt of
notice of the adverse decision. Notice of the appeal shall be served on the
City Clerk by the appellant, stating the grounds for appeal. The City Council
shall issue a written decision on the appeal within thirty (30) days. All
decisions of the City Council shall be mailed to appellant at the address the
appellant lists on the notice of appeal.
   E.   There shall be no further administrative appeal beyond the City
Council. (2008 Code § 31-158)
CHAPTER 2
STORMWATER ILLICIT CONNECTIONS AND ILLEGAL DISCHARGES
SECTION:
9-2-1: Purpose And Intent
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-3: Applicability
9-2-4: Responsibility For Administration
9-2-5: Minimum Standards; Ultimate Responsibility
9-2-6: Discharge Prohibitions
9-2-7: Suspension Of MS4 Access
9-2-8: Industrial Or Construction Activity Discharges
9-2-9: Monitoring Of Discharges
9-2-10: Prevent Pollutants; Best Management Practices
9-2-11: Watercourse Protection
9-2-12: Notification Of Spills Or Releases
9-2-13: Violation; Notice; Order Compliance
9-2-14: Appeal Of Notice Of Violation
9-2-15: Enforcement Measures After Appeal
9-2-16: Cost Of Abatement Of Violation
9-2-17: Violation Deemed Public Nuisance
9-2-18: Remedies Not Exclusive
9-2-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health,
safety, and general welfare of the citizens of Bettendorf through the
regulation of non-stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system to the
maximum extent practicable as required by Federal and State law. This chapter
establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the
Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) in order to comply with
requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
phase II permit process.
   B.   Objectives: The objectives of this chapter are:
      1.   To regulate the discharge of stormwater pollutants to the Municipal
Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) by stormwater discharges by any user;
      2.   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the MS4;
      3.   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter;
      4.   To efficiently oversee pollution prevention programs without
duplications of State and Federal inspections and monitoring. (Ord. 39-17, 11-
21-2017)
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following shall mean:
AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY: Employees or designees of the City of Bettendorf
Public Works Department.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
material storage.
CLEAN WATER ACT: The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 USC section 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES: Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of one acre
or more. Such activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and
grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
ILLEGAL DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the storm
drain system, except as exempted in this chapter.
ILLICIT CONNECTIONS: An "illicit connection" is defined as either of the
following:
   A.   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which
allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including, but not
limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater discharge including
sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system and
any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks,
regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed,
permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
   B.   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land
use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or
equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY: Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as defined
in 40 CFR section 122.26(b)(14).
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT: A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority delegated
pursuant to 33 USC section 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants
to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an
individual, group, or general area wide basis.
NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not
composed entirely of stormwater.
PERSON: Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner's agent.
POLLUTANT: Anything that causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordnances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
PREMISES: Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM: Publicly or privately owned facilities by which
stormwater is collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, any
roads with drainage systems, Municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped
storm drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and
human made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage
structures.
STORMWATER: Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water
from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN: A document which describes the Best
Management Practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance
systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
WASTEWATER: Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility. (Ord. 39-17, 11-21-2017)
9-2-3: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system generated
on any public or private developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly
exempted by an authorized enforcement agency. (Ord. 39-17, 11-21-2017)
9-2-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
The Public Works Department, or its designated agent, shall administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or
duties imposed upon the authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in
writing by the City Director of Public Works to persons or entities acting in
the beneficial interest of or in the employ of the agency. (Ord. 39-17, 11-21-
2017)
9-2-5: MINIMUM STANDARDS; ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY:
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore, this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants. (Ord. 39-17, 11-21-2017)
9-2-6: DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Prohibition Of Illegal Discharge: No person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged into the Municipal storm drain system or watercourses any
materials, including, but not limited to, pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than stormwater. The commencement, conduct or continuance of
any illegal discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited except as
described as follows:
      1.   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line flushing or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising
groundwater, groundwater infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped
groundwater, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater
dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
natural riparian habitat or wetland flows, swimming pools (if de- chlorinated -
typically less than 1 ppm chlorine), firefighting activities, and any other
water source not containing pollutants.
      2.   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement agency
as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
      3.   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the authorized enforcement agency prior to the time of the
test.
      4.   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the Iowa Department of
Natural Resources; provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and
regulations; and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
   B.   Prohibition Of Illicit Connections:
      1.   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      2.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      3.   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
      4.   Improper connections in violation of this chapter must be
disconnected and redirected, if necessary, to an approved onsite wastewater
management system or the sanitary sewer system as directed by the Public Works
Department.
      5.   Any drain or conveyance that has not been documented in plans, maps
or equivalent, and which may be connected to the storm sewer system, shall be
located by the owner or occupant of that property upon receipt of written
notice of violation from the Public Works Department requiring that such
locating be completed. Such notice will specify a reasonable time period, not
to exceed twenty one (21) days, within which the location of the drain or
conveyance is to be determined, that the drain or conveyance be identified as
storm sewer, sanitary sewer or other, and that the outfall location or point of
connection to the storm sewer system, sanitary sewer system or other discharge
point be identified. Results of these investigations are to be documented and
provided to the Public Works Department. (Ord. 39-17, 11-21-2017)
9-2-7: SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS:
   A.   Suspension Due To Illicit Discharges In Emergency Situations: The
Public Works Department or its designated agent may, without prior notice,
suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when such suspension is necessary to
stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent
and substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of
persons, or to the MS4 or waters of the United States. If the violator fails to
comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the authorized
enforcement agency may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or
minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the United States, or to minimize
danger to persons.
   B.   Suspension Due To Detection Of Illicit Discharge: Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have their MS4 access
terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The
authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of the proposed
termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the City Council for a
reconsideration and hearing.
   C.   Committing Offense: A person commits an offense if the person
reinstates MS4 access to premises terminated pursuant to this section, without
the prior approval of the authorized enforcement agency. (Ord. 39-17, 11-21-
2017)
9-2-8: INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES:
Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES stormwater
discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of
compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the Public
Works Department or its designated agent prior to the allowing of discharges to
the MS4. (Ord. 39-17, 11-21-2017)
9-2-9: MONITORING OF DISCHARGES:
   A.   Applicability: This section applies to all facilities that have
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, and construction
activity.
   B.   Access To Facilities:
      1.   The Public Works Department, or its designated agent, shall be
permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject to regulation under this
chapter as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with this chapter.
If a discharger has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the discharger
shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of the
authorized enforcement agency.
      2.   Facility operators shall allow the Public Works Department, or its
designated agent, ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, examination and copying of records that must be kept
under the conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater, and the
performance of any additional duties as defined by State and Federal law.
      3.   The Public Works Department, or its designated agent, shall have the
right to set upon any permitted facility such devices as are necessary in the
opinion of the authorized enforcement agency to conduct monitoring and/or
sampling of the facility's stormwater discharge.
      4.   The Public Works Department, or its designated agent, shall have the
right to require the discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary.
The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all
times in a safe and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own
expense. All devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be
calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
      5.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the Public Works Department, or its
designated agent, and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access
shall be borne by the operator.
      6.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Public Works Department, or its
designated agent, access to a permitted facility is a violation of a stormwater
discharge permit and of this chapter. A person who is the operator of a
facility with an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater associated with
industrial activity commits an offense if the person denies the authorized
enforcement agency reasonable access to the permitted facility for the purpose
of conducting any activity authorized or required by this chapter.
      7.   If the Public Works Department, or its designated agent, has been
refused access to any part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged,
and he/she is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a
violation of this chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as
part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance
with this chapter or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety, and welfare of the community, then the authorized
enforcement agency may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of
competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 39-17, 11-21-2017)
9-2-10: PREVENT POLLUTANTS; BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES:
The Public Works Department will adopt requirements identifying Best Management
Practices (BMPs) for any activity, operation, or facility which may cause or
contribute to pollution or contamination of stormwater, the storm drain system,
or waters of the U.S. The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial
establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable protection from
accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the Municipal
storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these structural and
nonstructural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a property or premises
which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge may be required to
implement, at said person's expense, additional structural and nonstructural
BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the MS4. Compliance with
all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of
stormwater associated with industrial activity, to the extent practicable,
shall be deemed compliance with the provisions of this section. These BMPs
shall be part of a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) as necessary
for compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit. (Ord. 39-17, 11-21-2017)
9-2-11: WATERCOURSE PROTECTION:
Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, and other deleterious materials that would
pollute, contaminate, or significantly degrade the flow of water through the
watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain existing privately
owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so that such structures
will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical integrity of the
watercourse. (Ord. 39-17, 11-21-2017)
9-2-12: NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS OR RELEASES:
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency responses for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the U.S.,
said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of a release of
hazardous materials, said person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of nonhazardous materials, said person shall notify the authorized
enforcement agency in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next
business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written
notice addressed and mailed to the Public Works Department within five (5)
business days of the phone notice. (Ord. 39-17, 11-21-2017)
9-2-13: VIOLATION; NOTICE; ORDER COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever the Public Works Department, or its
designated agent, finds that an organization has violated a prohibition or
failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the authorized enforcement agency
may order compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person.
Such notice may require, without limitation:
      1.   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      2.   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      3.   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      4.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      5.   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs; and
      6.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   B.   Abatement; Restoration: If abatement of a violation and/or restoration
of affected property is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within
which such remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall
further advise that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore within
the established deadline, the work will be done by a designated governmental
agency or a contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to the
violator. (Ord. 39-17, 11-21-2017)
9-2-14: APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of the
authorized enforcement agency. The notice of appeal must be received within
five (5) days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal
before the City Council shall take place within fifteen (15) days from the date
of receipt of the notice of appeal or the next regularly scheduled City Council
meeting, whichever comes first. The decision of the City Council shall be
final. (Ord. 39-17, 11-21-2017)
9-2-15: ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL:
   A.   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements
set forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within ten
(10) days of the decision of the City Council upholding the decision of the
authorized enforcement agency, then representatives of the Public Works
Department may enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to
take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in
possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency or
designated agent to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth in
subsection A of this section. (Ord. 39-17, 11-21-2017)
9-2-16: COST OF ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION:
Violations of this chapter are subject to civil fines and penalties as
prescribed by the provision of the Iowa Code sections 364.3 and 364.12, as
modified by the current City Code. (Ord. 39-17, 11-21-2017)
9-2-17: VIOLATION DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCE:
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and
deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the violator's
expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the
cessation of such nuisance may be taken. (Ord. 39-17, 11-21-2017)
9-2-18: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable Federal, State or local law and it is within the
discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 39-17, 11-21-2017)
CHAPTER 3
CONSTRUCTION SITE EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
SECTION:
9-3-1: City Authority And Responsibility
9-3-2: Application For Permit; Fee
9-3-3: Supporting Documentation
9-3-4: Permit Term
9-3-5: Inspections For Permits
9-3-6: Monitoring Procedures For Permits
9-3-7: Termination Of Permit
9-3-8: Violation; Enforcement
9-3-9: Stop Work Order
9-3-10: Appeals
9-3-1: CITY AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   The U.S. EPA's national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES)
permit program administered by the Iowa department of natural resources (IDNR)
requires that agencies meeting certain demographic and environmental criteria
obtain from the IDNR an NPDES permit for the discharge of stormwater from a
municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) (MS4 permit). The city is required
to obtain and has been issued such a permit. The city's MS4 permit is on file
at the office of the city clerk and is also available online at the city's
website.
   B.   The NPDES program requires any person, firm, sole proprietorship,
partnership, corporation, agency, or political entity required by law or
administrative rule who is engaged in construction activities to submit an
application to the IDNR for an NPDES general permit #2 for stormwater discharge
associated with industrial activity, and also to obtain from the city a
construction site erosion and sediment control (COSESCO) permit.
   C.   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, every applicant bears
final and complete responsibility for compliance with an NPDES general permit
#2 and any other requirement of state or federal law or administrative rule.
   D.   The city shall have the primary responsibility for inspection,
monitoring, and enforcement of both the NPDES general permit #2 and the COSESCO
permit.
   E.   No state or federal government funds have been made available to defray
the costs of the city's administration and enforcement of the NPDES permit
program. Pursuant to these governmental mandates, the city must fund the permit
program.
   F.   Issuance of a COSESCO permit shall be a condition precedent for the
issuance of a building permit for that site or development. (Ord. 17-16, 7-19-
2016)
9-3-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
   A.   All persons required by law or administrative rule to obtain an NPDES
general permit #2 from the IDNR are required to obtain a city COSESCO permit.
This includes the construction of single- family homes.
   B.   Applications for COSESCO permits shall be made on forms approved by the
city and available at city hall, maintenance annex, and online at the city's
website.
   C.   An applicant applying for a COSESCO permit shall pay fees as follows:
      1.   An applicant in possession of an NPDES general permit #2 shall pay a
fee at the time of application in the amount of one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00). For sites over an acre, there shall be an additional fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per acre, or portion thereof. All sites less than one
acre will pay a one acre minimum.
      2.   An applicant applying for a COSESCO permit for a single-family home
shall pay a fee at the time of application in the amount of one hundred dollars
($100.00).
      3.   Consistent with subsection
9-3-4A of this chapter, an applicant in possession of an NPDES general permit
#2 and a city COSESCO permit shall pay an annual renewal fee of two hundred
dollars ($200.00). Single-family homes are excluded from this requirement.
   D.   By submission of a COSESCO permit application, the applicant agrees to
defend, indemnify and hold the city harmless from any and all claims, damages
or suits arising directly or indirectly out of any act or omission by the
applicant, or any employee, agent, assign or contractor or subcontractor of the
applicant, in connection with the applicant's NPDES general permit #2 and/or
COSESCO permit. (Ord. 17-16, 7-19-2016)
9-3-3: SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION:
   A.   An applicant who has applied for an NPDES general permit #2 through
submittal of a notice of intent (NOI) to the IDNR shall subsequently submit to
the city copies of the following materials as a basis for the city to issue a
COSESCO permit:
      1.   Applicant's NPDES general permit #2 NOI and authorization letter.
      2.   The site specific stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP)
utilizing the city checklist for such plans available at the public works
department.
      3.   Applicant's plans, specifications, and supporting data, if not
already part of the NOI submittal, to include any information regarding
concentrations of stormwater pollutants, if known, and not already required to
be submitted.
      4.   Completed COSESCO permit application with applicable fees.
   B.   Every SWPPP submitted to the city in support of an application for a
COSESCO permit shall have the following:
      1.   An SWPPP shall be a separate document from the engineered
construction plans that complies with all current minimum mandatory
requirements for SWPPPs promulgated by the IDNR in connection with issuance of
an NPDES general permit #2.
      2.   A statement confirming that the plan complies with the minimum
mandatory requirements of the joint application form, "Protecting Iowa Waters",
Iowa department of natural resources, and the U.S. army corps of engineers.
      3.   A signed and dated certification by the person preparing the SWPPP,
that the plan complies with all other applicable state or federal permit
requirements in existence at the time of application and all requirements of
this chapter.
   C.   In addition to the SWPPP requirements stated above, which constitute
minimum mandatory requirements imposed by the program, every SWPPP submitted to
the city in support of an application for a COSESCO permit shall comply with
the "Statewide Urban And Design Specifications Design Manual" for design,
location, and phased implementation of effective, practicable stormwater
pollution prevention measures, and shall also:
      1.   Assure that stockpiled soil or other materials subject to erosion by
wind or water are covered, vegetated, or otherwise effectively protected from
erosion and sedimentation in accordance with the amount of time the material
will be on site and the manner of its proposed use; no stockpiling is allowed
in the street.
      2.   Identify measures and procedures to reasonably minimize site soil
compaction.
      3.   Assure that all temporary erosion and sediment control measures
shall not be removed until the site has been permanently stabilized.
      4.   Assure that all disturbed sites be permanently stabilized with
seventy percent (70%) perennial cover as defined by the U.S. EPA NPDES general
permit.
      5.   Identify methods to prevent sediment damage to adjacent properties
and sensitive environmental areas.
      6.   Provide for design and construction methods to stabilize steep or
long continuous slopes.
      7.   Protect storm sewer infrastructure from sediment loading/plugging.
      8.   Specify precautions to be taken to contain sediment when working in
or crossing water bodies and streets.
      9.   Provide for proper disposal of collected sediment and floating
debris.
   D.   For the duration of the time that the construction site is subject to
the NPDES general permit #2 and the COSESCO permit, the applicant shall provide
to the city, and keep current, the following:
      1.   The name, address, and telephone number of the person designated by
the applicant who is knowledgeable and experienced in erosion and sediment
control and who will oversee compliance with the NPDES general permit #2 and
the COSESCO permit.
      2.   The name, address, and telephone number of the individual or firm
responsible for the installation and maintenance of each erosion and sediment
control measure identified in the SWPPP.
Applicant's failure to provide current information shall constitute a violation
of this chapter.
   E.   If the applicant for the NPDES general permit #2 and the COSESCO permit
is not the same individual as the owner/builder on the site, then the applicant
has the option to include the owner/builder as a copermittee. Copermittees have
the same obligations and responsibilities as the original applicant. Absent
written confirmation of transfer of responsibility signed by both the parties
and provided to the city at the office of the enforcement official, the
original applicant remains obligated and responsible for permit compliance on
any parcel of the site, whether the parcel has been sold or not.
   F.   Upon receipt of an application for a COSESCO permit, the city shall
either find that the application complies with this chapter and issue a city
COSESCO permit in accordance with this chapter, or that the application fails
to comply with this chapter, in which case the city shall provide a written
report identifying noncompliant elements of the application. (Ord. 17-16, 7-19-
2016)
9-3-4: PERMIT TERM:
   A.   A COSESCO permit shall be valid for three hundred sixty five (365)
calendar days from its date of issuance and must be renewed annually.
   B.   A COSESCO permit shall be considered expired one hundred eighty (180)
calendar days after the date of issuance if permitted work has not commenced.
(Ord. 17-16, 7-19-2016)
9-3-5: INSPECTIONS FOR PERMITS:
   A.   All inspections required under this chapter will be conducted by a
designated person from the public works department, herein referred to as the
"enforcement official".
   B.   The applicant will notify the enforcement official in writing when all
measures required by the applicant's SWPPP have been accomplished, whereupon,
the enforcement official shall conduct an inspection for verification. The
enforcement official shall provide the applicant with a written response
indicating compliance with the SWPPP or a list of conditions of noncompliance.
This response shall be provided within five (5) business days of receipt of the
applicant's notification to the city. Upon receipt of the conditions of
noncompliance, the applicant will take immediate action to correct items of
concern and shall complete actions within forty eight (48) hours.
   C.   Construction shall not occur on the site at any time when the city has
identified conditions of noncompliance.
   D.   The city shall not be responsible for the direct or indirect
consequences to the applicant, or any third parties, for any noncompliant
conditions undetected by the inspection process, nor shall the inspection be
deemed any guarantee by the city that the work performed is in conformance with
the requirements of city, state, or federal law. (Ord. 17-16, 7-19-2016)
9-3-6: MONITORING PROCEDURES FOR PERMITS:
   A.   Upon the issuance of a COSESCO permit, the applicant has an absolute
duty to monitor site conditions and report to the enforcement official any
change in circumstances or site conditions the applicant knows, or should know,
pose a risk of stormwater discharge in a manner inconsistent with the
applicant's SWPPP, NPDES general permit #2, or COSESCO permit.
      1.   Such report shall be made by the applicant immediately, but in any
event within twenty four (24) hours of the change of circumstances or site
conditions.
      2.   Failure to make a timely report shall constitute a violation of this
chapter.
   B.   Any third party may also report to the city site conditions which the
third party reasonably believes pose a risk of stormwater discharge in a manner
inconsistent with the permittee's SWPPP, general permit #2 and/or COSESCO
permit.
   C.   Upon receiving a changed conditions report, the enforcement official
shall conduct an inspection of the site as soon as reasonably possible and will
provide the applicant a list of items not meeting compliance. The applicant
shall immediately commence corrective actions. Items needing correction must be
completed within forty eight (48) hours. The enforcement official may extend
the deadline for correction based upon good cause.
   D.   Unless a report is made to the enforcement official pursuant to the
previous sections of this chapter, the official will conduct at least one
unannounced inspection of the site during the construction process. As with
subsection C of this section, the applicant has the same duty to correct any
deficiencies noted during the inspection.
   E.   The city shall not be responsible for the direct or indirect
consequences to the permittee or to third parties for noncompliant conditions
undetected by inspection or monitoring.
   F.   The enforcement official shall be permitted to enter and inspect
facilities subject to regulation under this section as often as necessary to
determine compliance with this section. If a discharger has security measures
that require identification and clearance before entry to its premises, the
discharger shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to the
enforcement official to enforce this section. (Ord. 17-16, 7-19-2016)
9-3-7: TERMINATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Within thirty (30) days after final stabilization at the construction
site, as defined by the IDNR in its NPDES general permit #2, the permittee
shall submit a notice of termination to the enforcement official of the public
works department. The notice shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the permittee to whom the permit was issued.
      2.   The permit authorization number.
      3.   The date the construction site reached final stabilization.
      4.   A statement certifying that disturbed soils have been finally
stabilized and temporary sediment control devices will be removed at an
appropriate time. The permittee shall also acknowledge that they are no longer
authorized to discharge stormwater associated with construction at this site.
   B.   Upon receipt of the notice of termination, the enforcement officer
shall conduct a final inspection of the site for the purpose of verifying final
stabilization. Within a reasonable time thereafter, the enforcement officer
will report to the applicant that either final stabilization is achieved, or
that final stabilization has not been achieved before COSESCO termination is
accepted. (Ord. 17-16, 7-19-2016)
9-3-8: VIOLATION; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violation of any provision of this chapter may be enforced by civil
action including an action for injunctive relief. In any civil enforcement
action, administrative or judicial, the city shall be entitled to recover its
legal fees and costs from a person who is determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction to have violated this chapter.
   B.   Violation of any provision of this chapter may also be enforced as a
municipal infraction within the meaning of Iowa Code section 364.22. The
schedule of fines follows the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code, except as shown herein:
      1.   Schedule of violations:
 
Type I:                          
 First offense                 $100.00
 Second offense                250.00
 Third and subsequent offense  500.00
Type II:                         
 First offense                 250.00
 Second and subsequent offense 500.00
 
      2.   Definition of offenses:
Type I:
         a.   Failure to control off site tracking of soils, silt, sediment, or
mud.
         b.   Failure to implement stormwater pollution prevention controls as
designated in the SWPPP.
         c.   Failure to maintain stormwater pollution prevention controls.
         d.   Failure to document any stormwater discharge that is a violation
of water quality standards or in a manner inconsistent with the applicant's
SWPPP, general permit #2 and/or COSESCO permit.
Type II:
         a.   Operating without a COSESCO permit.
         b.   Discharging silt/sediment to the city of Bettendorf's storm or
sanitary sewer systems.
         c.   Failure to comply with a written directive issued by the city
engineer, director of public works, or the enforcement official designated by
the city.
   C.   Enforcement pursuant to this section shall be undertaken by the
enforcement official upon the advice and consent of the city attorney. (Ord.
17-16, 7-19-2016)
9-3-9: STOP WORK ORDER:
   A.   In the event any person holding a COSESCO permit pursuant to this
chapter violates the requirements of the permit as is described herein or
carries on site development in such a manner so as to materially adversely
affect the health, welfare, environment, or safety of persons residing or
working in the neighborhood of the development site or so as to be materially
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property or improvements in
the neighborhood, the enforcement official shall suspend or revoke the COSESCO
permit.
   B.   The suspension of a COSESCO permit shall be a written stop work order
issued by the enforcement officer to the permittee or his agent or the person
performing the work. The stop work order shall be effective immediately, shall
state the specific violations cited, and the conditions under which the work
may be resumed. A stop work order shall remain in effect until the enforcement
official has approved corrective measures.
   C.   Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a
stop work order, except such work as the person is directed to perform to
remove a violation, shall be subject to penalties as stated in this chapter.
(Ord. 17-16, 7-19-2016)
9-3-10: APPEALS:
Individuals or businesses who believe the provisions of this chapter have been
applied in error may appeal as follows:
   A.   An appeal shall be filed, in writing, with the city director of public
works within five (5) business days of the decision or enforcement action. The
appeal should include any information provided by competent authority with the
requisite expertise to ascertain the nature of the offense alleged in the
enforcement action.
   B.   Using the information provided by the department, the director shall
immediately conduct a review of the conditions on the property and respond to
the appeal in writing within five (5) workdays.
   C.   A decision of the director which is adverse to an appellant may be
further appealed to the city council. Notice of the appeal shall be served on
the city clerk by the appellant, within five (5) working days of receipt of the
decision of the director, stating the reasons for appeal. The city council
shall hold a public hearing, giving the appellant and the director the
opportunity to provide any information deemed relevant. Thereafter, the council
shall affirm, reverse, or modify the decision of the director.
   D.   There shall be no further appeal of the matter except as otherwise
provided by law. (Ord. 17-16, 7-19-2016)
CHAPTER 4
POSTCONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
9-4-1: General Provisions
9-4-2: Purpose
9-4-3: Applicability
9-4-4: Compatibility With Other Chapters
9-4-5: Definitions
9-4-6: Procedures And Requirements
9-4-7: Waivers
9-4-8: Construction Inspection
9-4-9: Maintenance And Repair Of Stormwater BMPs
9-4-10: Enforcement By Legal Or Administrative Action
9-4-11: Appeals
9-4-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The U.S. EPA's national pollutant discharge elimination system ("NPDES") permit
program (program) administered by the Iowa department of natural resources
("IDNR") requires that cities meeting certain demographic and environmental
impact criteria obtain from the IDNR an NPDES permit for the discharge of
stormwater from a municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) (MS4 permit). The
city of Bettendorf is required to obtain and has been issued such a permit. The
city's MS4 permit is on file at the office of the city clerk and is also
available online at the city's website.
   A.   As a condition of the city's MS4 permit, the city is obliged to
develop, implement and enforce a program to address stormwater runoff from new
construction and reconstruction projects for which stormwater permit coverage
is required.
   B.   No state or federal funds have been made available to assist the city
in administering and enforcing the program. Accordingly, the city shall fund
its inspection, monitoring and enforcement responsibilities entirely with fees
imposed on the owners or developers of properties which are made subject to the
program by virtue of state and federal law, and/or other sources of funding
established by a separate chapter.
   C.   The city so finds that land development and associated increases in
impervious cover alter the hydrologic response of local watersheds resulting in
increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, flooding, stream channel
erosion, and sediment transport and deposition. This stormwater runoff
contributes to increased quantities of waterborne pollutants. Stormwater
runoff, soil erosion and nonpoint source pollution can be controlled and
minimized through the regulation of stormwater runoff from development or
redevelopment sites.
   D.   Therefore, the city establishes this set of stormwater requirements to
provide reasonable guidance for the regulation of stormwater runoff for the
purpose of protecting local water resources from degradation. It is determined
that the regulation of stormwater runoff discharges from land development and
other construction activities in order to control and minimize increases in
stormwater runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion, stream channel erosion, and
nonpoint source pollution associated with stormwater runoff, is in the public
interest and will prevent threats to public health and safety.
   E.   The city's "Design Standards Manual" establishes stormwater management
guidelines consisting of sizing criteria (water quality volume, channel
protection storage volume and extreme flood protection), specifications, and
best management practices (BMPs). The city hereby finds and declares the
"Design Standards Manual", and future editions and adopted modifications, are
hereby adopted as the stormwater management standards of the city. (Ord. 18-16,
7-19-2016)
9-4-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to adopt as the city's standards the guidelines
established in the "Design Standards Manual" (hereinafter collectively called
the city's "stormwater requirements" or "standards") in order to protect and
safeguard the general health, safety, and welfare of the public within this
jurisdiction. This chapter seeks to meet that purpose through consideration of
the following objectives:
   A.   Minimize increases in stormwater runoff from development within the
city limits and fringe areas in order to reduce flooding, siltation, increases
in stream temperature, and stream bank erosion in order to maintain the
integrity of stream channels;
   B.   Minimize mass grading of sites to preserve natural features and
drainageways as well as to protect open space and impervious cover;
   C.   Minimize increases in nonpoint source pollution caused by stormwater
runoff from development which would otherwise degrade local water quality;
   D.   Distribute and minimize runoff by utilizing vegetated areas for
stormwater treatment (e.g., parking lot islands, vegetated areas along property
boundaries, front and rear yards, and building landscaping). Encourage
infiltration and soil storage of runoff through such practices as bioswales,
soil quality improvement with compaction reduction and compost amendments,
bioretention cells and rain gardens and other BMPs guided by the "Iowa
Stormwater Management Manual". Plant vegetation that does not require
irrigation beyond natural rainfall and runoff from the site;
   E.   Reduce stormwater runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion and nonpoint
source pollution, wherever possible, through establishment of appropriate
minimum stormwater management standards and BMPs and to ensure that BMPs are
properly maintained and pose no threat to public safety. (Ord. 18-16, 7-19-
2016)
9-4-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   This chapter shall be applicable to all development and redevelopment
applications meeting the minimum square foot applicability criteria in
subsection B of this section, unless eligible for an exemption or granted a
waiver by the city under section
9-4-7 of this chapter. This chapter also applies to land disturbance activities
that are smaller than the minimum square foot applicability criteria specified
in subsection B of this section if such activities are part of a larger common
plan of development that meets the minimum square foot applicability criteria
of subsection B of this section, even though multiple separate and distinct
land development activities may take place at different times on different
schedules.
   B.   City stormwater requirements must be met for all development or
redevelopment in areas north of the Mississippi River that drain to the river
and do not contribute stormwater to Duck Creek, except that area south of U.S.
Highway 67 and east of 35th Street. The exact boundaries shall be as determined
by the city engineer from contour maps maintained in that office. City
stormwater requirements apply to any development or redevelopment disturbing
one acre or more of land, or to any development disturbing less than one acre
if the amount of impervious cover created exceeds ten thousand (10,000) square
feet. New development includes any new residential, commercial, or industrial
subdivision or individual site improvement requiring a site development plan.
The following activities are exempt from this chapter:
      1.   Any agricultural activity.
      2.   Additions or modifications to existing single-family property.
      3.   Repairs to any stormwater BMPs deemed necessary by the city.
      4.   Areas deemed appropriate by the city engineer.
   C.   When a development or redevelopment does not disturb more than one acre
or create impervious cover exceeding ten thousand (10,000) square feet but it
is deemed necessary due to existing drainage concerns, the city engineer may
require stormwater BMPs to treat the water quality volume storm event.
   D.   Individuals engaged in land disturbing activities shall minimize soil
compaction and preserve topsoil that exists on site. During mass grading
operations, topsoil shall be stripped, stockpiled, and spread over the entire
site prior to final stabilization or stockpiled in a designated controlled area
(s) for later use of individual lot construction. Excess topsoil may be removed
from the site only upon written approval of the city engineer and only where
the individual can show that the additional topsoil is not needed to meet the
city's stormwater requirements. (Ord. 18-16, 7-19-2016)
9-4-4: COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER CHAPTERS:
   A.   It is intended that this chapter be construed to be consistent with
previously adopted chapters 2, "Stormwater Illicit Connections And Illegal
Discharges", and 3, "Construction Site Erosion And Sediment Control", of this
title.
   B.   The requirements of this chapter should be considered minimum
requirements, and where any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions
different from those imposed by any other chapter, rule or regulation, or other
provision of law, the provision which is most restrictive or imposes the higher
protective standards for human health or the environment shall be considered to
take precedence. (Ord. 18-16, 7-19-2016)
9-4-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following shall mean:
APPLICANT: Property owner or agent of a property owner who has filed an
application for a stormwater management permit.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP): Practice or series of practices used to manage
stormwater and as further defined in the "Iowa Stormwater Management Manual".
BUILDING: Any structure, either temporary or permanent, used or intended for
supporting or sheltering any use or occupancy more than one hundred forty four
(144) square feet in area.
COSESCO: Construction site erosion and sediment control permit issued by the
city of Bettendorf public works department.
CHANNEL STORAGE PROTECTION VOLUME: Providing for practices that will allow for
extended detention of the runoff generated by a 1-year, 24-hour event. This
means capturing the runoff volume from a storm of this nature, and slowly
releasing it over a period of no less than twenty four (24) hours to reduce the
rapid "bounce" effect common in many urban streams that leads to down cutting
and stream bank erosion.
CITY STORMWATER REQUIREMENTS OR STANDARDS: The guidelines provided for in the
city's "Design Standards Manual" for stormwater management.
DEDICATION: The deliberate appropriation of property by its owner for general
public use.
DEVELOPER: A person who undertakes land development activities.
DEVELOPMENT: Land disturbance activity of one acre (43,560 square feet) or more
on land previously vacant of buildings or largely free of previous land
disturbance activity other than traditional agricultural activities.
DRAINAGE EASEMENT: A legally recorded document which establishes a legal right
granted by a landowner to a grantee allowing the use of private land for
stormwater management purposes.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: That person or persons designated by the city having
responsibility for administration and enforcement of this chapter.
EXTREME FLOOD PROTECTION: Managing the effects of large storm events (1 percent
annual recurrence or expressed in the past as the 100-year recurrence
intervals) on the stormwater management system, adjacent property, and
downstream facilities and property. The impacts of these extreme events are
accomplished using detention controls and/or floodplain management.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Surfaces (roads, sidewalks, driveways and parking lots)
that are covered by impenetrable materials such as asphalt, concrete, brick,
and stone, rooftops as well as soils compacted by urban development.
INFILTRATION BASED BMPs: Practices that promote the movement of stormwater
runoff through the soil media to provide filtration and removal of pollutants.
LAND DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY: Any activity which changes the volume or peak flow
discharge rate of rainfall runoff from the land surface. This may include the
grading, digging, cutting, scraping, or excavating of soil, placement of fill
materials, paving, construction, substantial removal of vegetation, or any
activity which bares soil or rock or involves the diversion or piping of any
natural or manmade watercourse.
LANDOWNER: The legal or beneficial owner of land, including those holding the
right to purchase or lease the land, or any other person holding proprietary
rights in the land.
MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT: A legally recorded document that acts as a property deed
restriction, and which provides for long term maintenance of stormwater BMPs.
NATIVE LANDSCAPING OR VEGETATION: Vegetation originating naturally in this
region of the state and which does not contain noxious or invasive weeds. It is
not to be confused with existing vegetation.
PREDEVELOPMENT CONDITION: Hydraulic and hydrologic site characteristics
existing prior to development and shall include all the natural storage areas
and drainageways plus existing farm drainage tiles and highway drainage
structures. The city engineer may require the predeveloped condition to be
equal to an undeveloped condition if drainage problems are occurring downstream
due to existing development at the proposed site or in the basin.
REDEVELOPMENT: Land disturbance activity in areas where the existing land use
is commercial, industrial, institutional or multi-family residential.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT: The use of BMPs that are designed in accordance with
city stormwater requirements to reduce stormwater runoff pollutant loads,
discharge volumes, peak flow discharge rates and detrimental changes in stream
temperature that affect water quality and habitat.
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP): A plan that is designed to
minimize the accelerated erosion and sediment runoff at a site during
construction activities and includes provisions for additional pollution
prevention.
STREAM: Perennial and intermittent water sources identified through site
inspection, and/or an approved city of Bettendorf map, and/or United States
geological survey (USGS) 7.5 minute series topographical map.
STREAM BUFFER: A vegetated strip of land which lies adjacent to a stream and
provides such functions as protecting water quality, providing wildlife habitat
and storing floodwaters.
WATER QUALITY VOLUME: The runoff resulting from a rainfall depth of 1.25
inches. Ninety percent (90%) of the rainfall events in Iowa are of this depth
or less. By managing these storms the vast majority of water volume will be
treated and many of the "first flush" pollutants of concern will be effectively
managed on site. (Ord. 18-16, 7-19-2016)
9-4-6: PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No landowner or developer shall receive any building, grading or other
land development permits required for land disturbance activities without first
meeting the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Unless otherwise exempted by this chapter, a stormwater management plan
and maintenance plan must be included with a site plan or subdivision
construction plans and must include the COSESCO permit application or approved
COSESCO permit. All final plats and site plans submitted after the adoption of
this chapter shall require a revised stormwater management plan and maintenance
plan per this chapter and may result in modifications to previously constructed
BMPs.
   C.   A stormwater management plan and maintenance plan shall be prepared to
meet the requirements of subsection G of this section.
   D.   Following submission and approval of a stormwater management plan to
the city, all applicable state and federal environmental permits shall be
obtained prior to issuance of local permits including floodplain permits.
   E.   If a stormwater management plan and maintenance plan are approved by
the city, all appropriate local land development activity permits may be
issued.
   F.   Approvals issued in connection with this chapter shall be valid from
the date of issuance through the date the city notifies the permit holder that
all stormwater management BMPs have passed the required final inspection.
   G.   A stormwater management plan and maintenance plan shall be prepared to
meet the following requirements:
      1.   Preparation By Professional: Be prepared by a licensed professional
engineer (PE) or professional landscape architect or credentialed in a manner
acceptable to the city.
      2.   Stormwater Management On Or Off Site: Indicate whether stormwater
will be managed on site or off site and, if on site, the general location and
type of BMPs.
      3.   Contact Information: Contain the appropriate contact information,
including the name, address, and telephone number(s) of the property owner(s),
and a list of the names and addresses of the adjoining property owner(s).
      4.   Topographic Base Watershed Map: Include a topographic base watershed
map with minimum two foot (2') contours, at a scale no greater than one inch
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') which extends a minimum of two hundred feet
(200') beyond the limits of the proposed development and indicates existing
surface water drainage including streams, ponds, culverts, ditches, and
wetlands; current land use including all existing structures; locations of
utilities, roads, and easements; and significant natural and manmade features
not otherwise shown. Topographic information that extends beyond the project
limits may be obtained from the office of the city engineer.
      5.   Inventory Of Natural Resources: Contain a written or graphic
inventory of the natural resources present at the site and extending a minimum
of two hundred feet (200') beyond the limits of the proposed development. A
description of the watershed shall include a discussion of existing
predevelopment soil conditions such as hydric soils and areas for infiltration
based BMPs, vegetative and forest cover, topography, wetlands, and other native
vegetative areas on the site. Particular attention should be paid to
environmentally sensitive resources that provide particular opportunities or
constraints for development.
      6.   Drainage Report: Provide a drainage report per the city of
Bettendorf "Design Standards Manual".
      7.   Soil Management: A soil management plan shall be provided that
includes a site map that identifies areas where soils and vegetation will not
be disturbed and shows where topsoil will be stripped and stockpiled. It shall
include a description of soil health (quality) improvement methods such as
tilling, ripping, and amending with materials such as compost and topsoil. It
shall also include a technical assessment of soils that identifies the soil
series and the site limitations based on soils data provided in the web soil
survey for Scott County hosted by natural resources conservation service
(NRCS). Soil borings shall be included when necessary to confirm suitable site
conditions for placement of buildings with basements and related structures,
especially in areas with hydric soils and shallow depth to groundwater.
Existing soil conditions should be considered when designing the site layout.
If a stormwater BMP depends on the properties of soils, the assessment shall
include the necessary information such as, but not limited to: organic content
and percolation/infiltration rates. The number and location of required soil
borings and/or soil test sites shall be determined based on what is needed to
determine the suitability and distribution of soil types present at the
location of the BMP. This information shall be used to provide a summary of the
associated risks and potential for adequate drainage related to infiltration
practices.
      8.   Vegetated Buffers: The site shall be designed to provide vegetated
buffers for water quality protection adjacent to receiving channels and waters.
The area shall be defined within a recorded outlot that includes a management
plan. Buffer width is based on land use as follows:
         a.   Low intensity residential: The total required stream buffer width
is thirty feet (30') on each side perpendicular to the waterway measured from
the "top of bank".
         b.   Medium and high intensity residential and all commercial: The
total required stream buffer width is fifty feet (50') on each side
perpendicular to the waterway measured from the "top of bank".
         c.   Industrial: The total required stream buffer width is fifty feet
(50') on each side perpendicular to the waterway measured from the "top of
bank".
      9.   Maintenance, Repair, And Landscaping: A maintenance, repair, and
landscaping plan that is periodically updated for all structural and
nonstructural stormwater BMPs including detailed routine maintenance as well as
long term maintenance of vegetation, and repair procedures to ensure their
continued efficient function shall be provided to the public works department.
These plans will identify the parts or components of a stormwater BMP that need
to be maintained and the equipment, skills or training necessary. The plan
shall also indicate who will be responsible for the maintenance of vegetation
at the site. Provisions for the periodic review and evaluation of the
effectiveness of the maintenance program and the need for revisions or
additional maintenance procedures shall be included in the plan. Native Iowa
plants and trees shall be considered for use with stormwater BMPs.
      10.   Dedicating Drainage Easements: Any stormwater BMP outside of the
public right of way shall be dedicated in a perpetual unobstructed drainage
easement with satisfactory access to a public way and from a public way to a
natural watercourse or to other stormwater management measure. Any such
easement shall be secured by the developer and dedicated to the city without
cost to the city.
      11.   Short And Long Term Maintenance: The property owners of
residential, commercial and industrial properties are responsible for all
maintenance (short term and long term) of all BMPs, water quality practices and
water quantity (flood) control practices (e.g., detention basins) constructed
as part of their developments. Short term maintenance shall include, but is not
limited to, mowing, weed control, and removal of volunteer trees. Long term
maintenance shall include, but is not limited to, dredging of basins, reshaping
of basins and outlet structure replacement.
      12.   Copies Of SWPPPs: Include copies of all existing SWPPPs (as
required by the city's COSESCO ordinance) current as of the date of submission
of the final stormwater management plan for all construction activities related
to implementing any on site stormwater BMPs.
      13.   Elevation Certificate: For lot development impacted by stormwater
BMPs and conveyance features:
         a.   The builder shall provide to the city engineer, or designated
city representative, an elevation certificate that is signed and sealed by a
land surveyor, engineer, or architect authorized by law to certify elevation
information.
         b.   The elevation certificate shall certify that the protected level
(lowest opening or protective flood barrier that achieves the same result) of
all buildings shall be a minimum of two feet (2') above the 100-year water
surface elevation of stormwater BMPs.
      14.   Storm Sewers: Any required storm sewers including foundation drain
collector lines shall be separate from any required sanitary sewers and shall
be installed at the developer's expense and subject to requirements of the city
and shall be adequate to serve all lots or parcels of land within the area to
be subdivided.
         a.   The storm sewer system shall be designed with due regard to the
present and reasonably foreseeable needs of the area to be subdivided and to
the location and capacity of existing storm sewers and other stormwater
management measures available to serve existing and reasonably anticipated
development or use of areas abutting the area to be subdivided.
         b.   Upon determination by the city engineer, such storm sewers may
become the property of the city, upon determination of the city engineer
through the city's inspection, approval, and acceptance of such sewers, after
the developer pays to the city any reasonable costs associated with supervision
of their installation or other services provided by the city.
      15.   Accommodating Upstream Drainage Areas: Any necessary and
appropriate stormwater BMPs shall be designed to accommodate runoff from any
upstream area potentially draining into or through the area to be developed,
whether such area is inside or outside the area to be developed. Such design
shall assume that the upstream area upon development or redevelopment will be
regulated such that volume of surface water runoff shall be equal to the runoff
from the current land use condition.
      16.   Protecting Downstream Drainage Areas: Any development shall provide
for mitigation of any overload condition reasonably anticipated on any existing
downstream stormwater BMPs outside the area to be subdivided, provided that the
development or use of the area to be subdivided creates or contributes to such
condition. (Ord. 18-16, 7-19-2016)
9-4-7: WAIVERS:
   A.   Request For Waiver: Every applicant shall provide for stormwater
management as required by this chapter except in certain redevelopment
situations when confronted with difficult site conditions that limit design of
such BMPs listed in the "Iowa Stormwater Management Manual". In such case, a
written request must be filed to waive implementation of BMPs in part or in
whole. Requests to waive implementation of BMPs in whole or in part shall be
submitted to the city engineer for approval.
   B.   Partial Waivers:
      1.   Partial waivers of BMPs required by this chapter may be granted for
redevelopment projects if the proposed development is not likely to impair
attainment of the objectives of this chapter. At least one of the following
conditions, in successive order, shall be established by applicant based on
authoritative written evidence satisfactory to the city engineer:
         a.   Alternative minimum requirements for on site management of
stormwater have been established in a stormwater management plan that has been
approved by the city engineer and fully implemented. If the applicant is
unable, for good cause shown, to meet the requirements of this subsection, the
applicant shall meet the following condition:
         b.   Provisions are made to manage stormwater by an off site facility
that has been approved by the city engineer. The off site facility is required
to be in place, to be designed and adequately sized to provide a level of
stormwater control that is equal to or greater than that which would be
afforded by on site practices and there is a responsible entity legally
obligated to monitor the performance of and maintain the efficiency of
stormwater BMPs in accordance with an approved maintenance plan.
      2.   In instances where one of the above conditions is established, the
applicant must further establish by authoritative written evidence satisfactory
to the city engineer that the partial waiver will not result in any of the
following impacts to downstream waterways:
         a.   Deterioration of existing culverts, bridges, dams, and other
structures;
         b.   Degradation of biological functions or habitat;
         c.   Accelerated stream bank or streambed erosion or siltation;
         d.   Increased threat of flood damage to public health, life,
property. (Ord. 18-16, 7-19-2016)
9-4-8: CONSTRUCTION INSPECTION:
   A.   After construction is completed, applicants are required to submit "as
built" drawings satisfactory to the city for stormwater detention facilities
located on site. The drawings must show the final design specifications, with
minimum two foot (2') contours, for all stormwater detention facilities and
must be certified by a professional engineer. (Ord. 18-16, 7-19-2016)
9-4-9: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF STORMWATER BMPs:
   A.   The applicant or owner of every site, or a qualified assignee, shall be
responsible for maintaining as built water quality BMPs in an effective state
at all times.
   B.   Prior to the issuance of a COSESCO permit that has a stormwater
management BMP as one of the requirements of the permit, and as part of
receiving approval of the stormwater management plan, the applicant or owner of
the site agrees to provide for access to the BMP and the land it serves at
reasonable times for periodic inspection by city or city's designee to ensure
that the BMP is maintained in proper working condition to meet city stormwater
requirements.
   C.   Maintenance of all stormwater management BMPs shall be ensured through
the creation of a maintenance plan that must be approved by city at time of the
stormwater management plan approval. As part of the plan, a schedule shall be
developed for when and how often maintenance will occur to ensure proper
function of the stormwater management BMPs. The plan shall also include plans
for periodic inspections to ensure proper performance of the BMPs between
scheduled cleanouts.
   D.   The owners of all stormwater management BMPs must undergo an annual
inspection to document maintenance and repair needs and ensure compliance with
the requirements of this chapter and accomplishment of its purposes. This
annual inspection shall be performed by a professional engineer, landscape
architect or individual credentialed in a manner acceptable to the city at the
owner's expense. Any maintenance or repair needs detected must be corrected by
the developer or entity responsible in a timely manner, as determined by city,
and the inspection and maintenance requirement may be increased as deemed
necessary to ensure proper functioning of the stormwater management BMPs.
   E.   Parties responsible for the operation and maintenance of stormwater
management BMPs shall make records of the installation and of all maintenance
and repairs, and shall retain the records for at least three (3) years. These
records shall be made available to city during inspection of the facility and
at other reasonable times upon request.
   F.   If a responsible party fails or refuses to meet the requirements of the
approved plan or any provision of this chapter, the city, after reasonable
notice, may correct a violation by performing all necessary work to place the
BMP in proper working condition, or contract with others for such purpose, and
charge all costs, including administration, to whom the order is directed. If
the cost of remedying a condition is not paid within thirty (30) days after the
mailing of a statement therefor from the director of public works, the cost
shall be assessed against the property for collection in the same manner as a
property tax. In the event the responsible party fails or is unable to pay the
costs associated with detention facility maintenance, these costs shall be
assessed against those users of the facility based upon their percentage of
use. (Ord. 18-16, 7-19-2016)
9-4-10: ENFORCEMENT BY LEGAL OR ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION:
   A.   Civil Action: Violation of any provision of this chapter may be
enforced by civil action including an action for injunctive relief. In any
civil enforcement action, administrative or judicial, the city shall be
entitled to recover its attorney fees and costs from a person who is determined
by a court of competent jurisdiction to have violated this chapter.
   B.   Municipal Infraction: Violation of any provision of this chapter may
also be enforced as a municipal infraction within the meaning of Iowa Code
section 364.22, pursuant to the city's municipal infraction chapter.
   C.   Restoration Of Lands: Any violator may be required to restore land to
its undisturbed condition. In the event that restoration is not undertaken
within a reasonable time after notice, city may take necessary corrective
action; the cost shall be assessed against the property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax. (Ord. 18-16, 7-19-2016)
9-4-11: APPEALS:
Individuals or businesses who believe the provisions of this chapter have been
applied in error may appeal as follows:
   A.   An appeal shall be filed, in writing, with the city director of public
works within five (5) business days of the decision or enforcement action. The
appeal should include any information provided by competent authority with the
requisite expertise to ascertain the nature of the offense alleged in the
enforcement action.
   B.   Using the information provided by the department, the director shall
immediately conduct a review of the conditions on the property and respond to
the appeal in writing within five (5) workdays.
   C.   A decision of the director which is adverse to an appellant may be
further appealed to the city council. Notice of the appeal shall be served on
the city clerk by the appellant, within five (5) working days of receipt of the
decision of the director, stating the reasons for appeal. The city council
shall hold a public hearing, giving the appellant and the director the
opportunity to provide any information deemed relevant. Thereafter, the council
shall affirm, reverse, or modify the decision of the director.
   D.   There shall be no further appeal of the matter except as otherwise
provided by law. (Ord. 18-16, 7-19-2016)
CHAPTER 5
MISCELLANEOUS STORMWATER DRAINAGE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Discharge Of Surface Waters Prohibited
9-5-2: Discharges To Designated Sewers Or Natural Outlets
9-5-1: DISCHARGE OF SURFACE WATERS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Discharge To Public Sanitary Sewer Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for
any person to make or maintain any connection of roof downspouts, foundation
drains, driveway drains, garage drains, sump pumps or other sources of surface
water, groundwater, stormwater, roof runoff or subsurface drainage to a
building sewer or lateral which is connected directly or indirectly to a public
sanitary sewer.
   B.   Redirecting Water To Cause Public Safety Hazard: No person shall
redirect water as described in subsection A of this section so that it shall
routinely pond or freeze on sidewalks, streets or alleys, in such a manner as
will cause a public safety hazard.
   C.   Sump Pump Discharge:
      1.   When a sump pump discharges water in such a manner as to cause
accumulation of water or ice to remain on sidewalks, streets or alleys, and
such accumulation is determined to be a public safety hazard, and the city has
placed a storm sewer or sump pump collection drainage system adjacent to such
property, the property owner and the tenant, if different from the owner, shall
be given notice that the sump pump discharge is in apparent violation of this
section.
      2.   Notice shall be by personal service or certified mail, return
receipt requested. The property owner and tenant shall thereafter have sixty
(60) days to either redirect the water flow or to connect the sump pump to the
collector line.
   D.   Appeal: In the event the tenant or owner believes that either the water
discharge does not violate this section or that the time to come into
compliance with this section is insufficient, that person may appeal to the
building board of appeals. That body shall have the authority to allow an
extension of time to come into compliance or to determine that a violation of
this section has not occurred. If that body determines that a violation has not
occurred, then no further action against the owner/tenant shall be taken. (2008
Code § 31-68)
9-5-2: DISCHARGES TO DESIGNATED SEWERS OR NATURAL OUTLETS:
Stormwater, industrial cooling water, unpolluted process waters and all other
unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers or natural outlets as
are specifically designated and approved by the director of the department of
public works, and if required by the administrator of the U.S. environmental
protection agency and executive director of the Iowa department of natural
resources. (2008 Code § 31-69)
TITLE 10
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
10-1-1: Composition
10-1-2: Public Inspection Of Comprehensive Plan
10-1-3: Improvements Required To Conform To Plan Enumerated
10-1-4: Observance Of Plan By City Officials And Agencies
10-1-5: Amendment To Plan
10-1-1: COMPOSITION:
The Comprehensive Plan consists of a descriptive report, charts, tables, and
maps contained within the document entitled "Premiering Bettendorf:
Comprehensive Plan Update for 2045." The Comprehensive Plan additionally
includes the following supplemental plans:
A.   The Land Use Plan, so adopted in September 1973, is further amended as
shown in the following ordinances:
   April 1, 1974
   February 21, 1978
   February 21, 1984
   February 2, 1988
   May 1990
   May 1991
   November 1994
   November 2002 (Ordinance 29-02)
   November 2002 (Ordinance 30-02)
   July 2003 (Ordinance 19-03)
   August 2003 (Ordinance 21-03)
   February 2004 (Ordinance 08-04)
   July 2004 (Ordinance 23-04)
   July 2004 (Ordinance 25-04)
   September 2004 (Ordinance 29-04)
   January 2005 (Ordinance 01-05)   
   April 2005 (Ordinance 10-05)
   October 2005 (Ordinance 30-05)
   October 2005 (Ordinance 32-05)
   November 2005 (Ordinance 33-05)
   August 2006 (Ordinance 05-06)
   September 2006 (Ordinance 12-06)
   April 2007 (Ordinance 08-07)
   May 2007 (Ordinance 10-07)
   May 2007 (Ordinance 11-07)
   May 2007 (Ordinance 12-07)
   May 2007 (Ordinance 16-07)
   June 2007 (Ordinance 19-07)
   June 2007 (Ordinance 20-07)
   June 2007 (Ordinance 21-07)
   July 2007 (Ordinance 24-07)
   October 2007 (Ordinance 36-07)
   September 2008 (Ordinance 12-08)
   December 2008 (Ordinance 18-08)
   January 2009 (Ordinance 02-09)
   April 2009 (Ordinance 08-09)
   April 2009 (Ordinance 09-09)
   May 2009 (Ordinance 12-09)
   July 2009 (Ordinance 17-09)
   March 2010 (Ordinance 04-10)
   February 2011 (Ordinance 05-11)
   February 2011 (Ordinance 06-11)
   February 2011 (Ordinance 07-11)
   February 2011 (Ordinance 08-11)
   February 2011 (Ordinance 09-11)
   February 2011 (Ordinance 10-11)
   February 2011 (Ordinance 11-11)
   July 2012 (Ordinance 16-12)
   December 2012 (Ordinance 22-12)
   July 2013 (Ordinance 12-13)
   October 2013 (Ordinance 27-13)
   October 2013 (Ordinance 29-13)
   April 2014 (Ordinance 06-14)
   April 2015 (Ordinance 06-15)
   May 2015 (Ordinance 09-15)
   September 2015 (Ordinance 16-15)
   October 2015 (Ordinance 23-15)
   April 2016 (Ordinance 06-16)
   April 2016 (Ordinance 07-16)
   November 2016 (Ordinance 20-16)
   November 2016 (Ordinance 24-16)
   May 2017 (Ordinance 05-17)
   June 2017 (Ordinance 10-17)
   June 2017 (Ordinance 13-07)   
   June 2017 (Ordinance 15-07)   
   July 2017 (Ordinance 17-07)
   July 2017 (Ordinance 19-07)
   July 2017 (Ordinance 21-07)
   October 2017 (Ordinance 33-17)
   November 2017 (Ordinance 36-17)
   February 2018 (Ordinance 03-18)
   June 2018 (Ordinance 11-18)
   August 2018 (Ordinance 20-18)
   July 2019 (Ordinance 13-19)
   December 2021 (Ordinance 23-21)
   June 2023 (Ordinance 11-23)
   June 2023 (Ordinance 12-23)
   November 2023 (Ordinance 26-23)
   December 2023 (Ordinance 30-23)
   July 2024 (Ordinance 17-24)
B.   The Thoroughfare Plan, adopted September 1973, and amended from time to
time including, but not limited to, the following:
   February 21, 1987
   September 3, 1996 (Ordinance 44-96)
C.   The Park and Recreation Plan, adopted September 1973, and amended from
time to time including, but not limited to, the following:
   April 16, 1974 (Ordinance 13-74)
   May 14, 1979 (Ordinance 16-79)
   December 18, 1979 (Ordinance 56-79)
   May 15, 1980 (Ordinance 11-80)
   February 2, 1988 (Ordinance 5-88)
   April 17, 1990 (Ordinance 17-90)
   May 15, 1990 (Ordinance 23-90)
   May 17, 1991 (Ordinance 19-91)
   June 4, 1991 (Ordinance 25-91)
   August 6, 1991 (Ordinance 32-91)
   December 17, 1991 (Ordinance 65-91)
   June 1, 1992 (Ordinance 22-92)
   November 1, 1994 (Ordinance 30-94)
   September 3, 1996 (Ordinance 44-96)
D.   The Downtown Master Plan/Streetscape Plan, adopted as a part of the
Comprehensive Plan in 2016, is further amended as shown in the following
ordinances:
   November 15, 2016 (Ordinance 26-16)
   July 16, 2024 (Ordinance 16-24)
(Ord. 26-16, 11-15-2016; amd. Ord. 26-23, 11-21-2023; Ord. 30-23, 12-19-2023;
Ord. 16-24, 7-16-2024; Ord. 17-24, 7-16-2024; Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-1-2: PUBLIC INSPECTION OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
One set of the updated maps, charts, plans, and reports shall be located at
City Hall in the Office of the City Clerk and one set shall be located at the
City Hall Annex in the Office of the Community Development Director. Both sets
shall be available for public viewing and copying as required by law. (2008
Code § 22-42; amd. Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-1-3: IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED TO CONFORM TO PLAN ENUMERATED:
The layout, location, relocation, extension or widening of thoroughfares; the
general design of neighborhoods and their street patterns; the use of land; and
the location of schools, parks, recreation and other public uses; shopping
centers and community facilities shall conform to the principles, policies and
provisions of the official City Plan. (2008 Code § 22-43; amd. Ord. 01-25, 1-7-
2025)
10-1-4: OBSERVANCE OF PLAN BY CITY OFFICIALS AND AGENCIES:
The layout, location, relocation, extension or widening of thoroughfares; the
general design of neighborhoods and their street patterns; the use of land; and
the location of schools, parks, recreation and other public uses; shopping
centers and community facilities shall conform to the principles, policies and
provisions of the official City Plan. (2008 Code § 22-44; amd. Ord. 01-25, 1-7-
2025)
10-1-5: AMENDMENT TO PLAN:
Any change to the Comprehensive Plan shall first be reviewed by the Planning
and Zoning Commission, who shall hold a public hearing thereon. The
recommendation of the commission shall be given to the Council for its
consideration prior to any action on the proposed modification. Modification
process may be initiated by the Council, the Commission, the Community
Development Director, or by property owners requesting a land use change for
his/her property. (2008 Code § 22-45; amd. Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING ADMINISTRATION AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Building Official
10-2-2: General Contractor Bonds
10-2-3: Conversion Of Apartments To Residential Cooperatives
10-2-4:    Conflicts’ More Restrictive Requirements Apply
10-2-1: BUILDING OFFICIAL:
There shall be a person designated as "chief building official" who shall be
the same as the "building official" referred to in the various building codes
adopted in this title. The chief building official and his/her assistants and
designees shall have the power to enforce the provisions of this title. The
chief building official shall have no interest, direct or indirect, in a
construction business doing work in the city. (2008 Code § 7-1; amd. Ord. 01-
25, 1-7-2025)
10-2-2: GENERAL CONTRACTOR BONDS:
   A.   Residential (One- and Two-Family Dwellings) Construction and
Miscellaneous Subcontracting. Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to
engage in the business of residential (one- and two-family dwellings) general
contracting within the city shall file a surety bond in the amount of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) with the building department to ensure that the
contractor and the work performed by the contractor comply with this code.
      (Miscellaneous subcontracting permits include, but are not limited to:
accessory, communication, deck, demolition, garage, sidewalk and approach,
fence, fireplace, handicap ramp, pergola, porch, roof, siding, shed, sign,
swimming pool, tank, waterproofing, solar tent retaining wall, and window).
   B.   Commercial/Multi-Family/Industrial Construction. Any person who has
obtained the National Standard General Building Contractor or General Building
Contractor (A or B) certification from the International Code Council or other
nationally accredited approved testing agencies shall be required to file a
surety bond per the requirements of Section A (
10-2-2 : General Contractor Bonds).
   C.   Alternative Method - Commercial/Multi-Family/Industrial Construction.
Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to engage in the business of
commercial/multi-family/industrial general contracting within the city that
does not have a certification identified in City Code Section
10-2-2 (B) shall file a surety bond in the amount of two hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($250,000.00) with the Building Department to ensure that the
contractor and the work performed by the contractor comply with this code.
(2008 Code § 7-2; amd. Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-2-3: CONVERSION OF APARTMENTS TO RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES:
   A.   Compliance with Certain Codes: An existing structure shall not be
converted to a residential cooperative unless the converted structure meets all
building, zoning, and fire code requirements in effect on the date of
conversion.
   B.   Notify City; Inspection: All property owners desiring to make the
conversion to residential cooperative shall advise the community development
department, on forms provided by the department, of the intent, and shall allow
a full inspection of the property for compliance with the relevant codes.
Properties converted without inspection and approval of the community
development department shall have their certificate of occupancy withdrawn.
(2008 Code § 7-3; amd. Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-2-4:   CONFLICTS’ MORE RESTRICTIVE REQUIREMENTS APPLY:
If any conflict exists between the adopted International Codes, Uniform Codes,
National Codes, and other City ordinances, the more restrictive code
requirement applies. (Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
CHAPTER 3
CERTAIN BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Codes Adopted
10-3-2: Effective Date Of Adoption; Impact On Buildings
10-3-3: Amendments To International Building Code
10-3-4:    Fees Established; Payment Prerequisite To Issuance Of Permit
10-3-5:    Reserved
10-3-6:    Reserved
10-3-7:    Reserved
10-3-8:    Special Assessment Deficiencies
10-3-1: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: Pursuant to published notice and public hearing, as required
by law, the 2021 International Building Code, the 2021 International
Residential Code, and their related codes as referenced, are hereby adopted in
full except for such portions as may hereinafter be deleted, modified, or
amended, and all subsequent supplements to the abovementioned international
codes as published.
   B.   An official copy of the International Building Code, the 2021
International Residential Code, and all referenced books are on file in the
offices of the City Clerk and the Community Development Department for public
inspection, and copies thereof are for sale at the cost to the public. (Ord.
26-17, 8-1-2017; amd. Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-3-2: EFFECTIVE DATE OF ADOPTION; IMPACT ON BUILDINGS:
   A.   All buildings shall be required to comply with the code in force at the
time the building permit was issued, and the City retains the right to
prosecute owners of buildings for code violations under those codes, even if
the codes are amended or replaced by newer versions.
   B.   Remodeling or reconstruction of buildings shall comply with the codes
as prescribed therein. (Ord. 26-17, 8-1-2017; amd. Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-3-3: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE:
   A.   The following amendments, modifications, additions, and deletions to
the 2021 International Building Code are hereby made:
   Section 101.1: "City of Bettendorf" is inserted as the [name of
jurisdiction.]
   Section 101.4.3: Replace the International Plumbing Code with Uniform
Plumbing Code.
   Section 103.1: "Community Development Department" is inserted as [name of
department.]
   Section 105.1 shall be amended by adding the following to the end of this
section:
      The building official at their discretion shall send plans for a
construction permit request to an outside agency for review. The building
official shall choose the plans review agency. The applicant shall pay all fees
associated with the plan review directly to the outside agency. The permitshall
not be issued until the review fees have been paid.
   Section 105.2(2) Building: Delete in its entirety.
   Section 105.2(6) Building: Delete it its entirety and replace with the
following:      
      105.2(6): Concrete flatwork on private property.
   Appendices: Delete all appendices.
   All references to building line and zoning are void, and the subject matter
of the Zoning Regulations of the City (Title 11 of the Bettendorf City Code)
shall be applicable.
   B.   The following amendments, modifications, additions, and deletions to
the 2021 International Residential Building Code are hereby made:
   Section R101.1: "City of Bettendorf" is inserted as the [name of
jurisdiction.]
   Section R105.2(1) Building: Delete in its entirety and replace with the
following:
      R105.2(1): One-Story detached accessory structures, provided the floor
area does not exceed 120 square feet.
   Section R105.2(2) Building: Delete in its entirety.
   Section R105.2(5) Building: Delete in its entirety and replace with the
following:
      R105.2(5): Concrete flatwork on private property.
   Table R301.2: Add the following information to Table R301.2
 
GROUND SNOW LOAD
p s = 30 psf, except that calculations for additional drift loads shall use a
ground snow load pg = 25 psf
 
WIND DESIGN
Speed (mph) Topographic effectsk Special wind regionl Windborne debris zonem
115         Yes                  No                   No
 
 
SEISMIC DESIGN CATEGORY
A
 
 
SUBJECT TO DAMAGE FROM
Weathering a Frost Line Depthb Termitec
Severe       42 inches         Moderate to Heavy
 
ICE BARRIER UNDERLAYMENT REQUIRED
Yes
 
FLOOD HAZARDS
FIRM
 
AIR FREEZING INDEX
2000
 
 
MEAN ANNUAL TEMP
50.5°F
 
   Table R301.2: Delete Manual J Design Criteria in its entirety.
   Section R302.13: Delete in its entirety.
   Section R311.7.8.4: Add Exception #3. Handrails within a dwelling unit or
serving an individual dwelling unit may have 1 offset interruption per flight
of stairs of six inches in total length where a partial wall comes to an
endpoint.
   Section R313.1: Add to the end of the sentence: "of 5 or more townhouse
units."
   Section R313.2: Delete in its entirety.
   Section R320: Delete in its entirety and replace with Iowa Administrative
Code 661, Chapter 302.
   Table R403.1(1): Delete in its entirety and replace with the following
table:
Table R403.1(1): Delete in its entirety and replace with the following table:
 
Table R403.1
           Thickness of
           Foundation Walls                                        Minimum
           (Inches)                                                Depth of
                                                                   Foundation
Number of                                                          Below
Floors                                                 Thickness   Natural
Supported                       Minimu m Width Footing of Footing  Surface Of
by the     Unit                 (Inches)            (Inches)    Ground Or
Foundation Concret e Masonry                                       Finish Grade
                                                                   (Whichever
                                                                   Is Lower)
                                                                   (Inches)


1          8         8          16                     8           42
2          8         8          16                     8           42
3          10        12         18                     12          42
 
   1.   Foundations may support a roof in addition to the stipulated number of
floors. Foundations supporting roofs only shall be as required for supporting
one floor. Footings shall be continuous and contain a minimum of two (2) half-
inch (0.5") reinforcement bars and have a minimum compressive strength of two
thousand five hundred (2,500) pounds per square inch at twenty-eight (28) days.
   2.   A one-story wood frame building used for a private garage, detached
accessory to a single-family dwelling and not over seven hundred and twenty
(720) square feet in floor area may be constructed on a floating slab-on-grade
provided the following conditions are met: A concrete perimeter grade-beam,
twelve inches deep and twelve inches wide and reinforced with two (2) half-inch
(0.5") reinforcement bars shall be installed to support the exterior walls. A
minimum four-inch (4")-thick concrete floor slab reinforced with wire mesh or
fiber mesh shall be installed within the perimeter beam and shall be formed to
allow a continuous pour consisting of the required grade beam and floor.
   3.   Buildings or portions of buildings containing mechanical installations
and connected to underground utilities shall be supported on a continuous,
frost-free foundation capable of resisting the movement of the slab-on-grade.
   4.   Cast-in-place concrete foundations walls shall be concrete having a
minimum compressive strength at twenty-eight (28) days of not less than three
thousand (3,000) pounds per square inch. In addition, the following shall
apply:
      a.   The minimum thickness of a wall shall be seven and one-half inches
(7.5").
      b.   Walls shall be reinforced with no less than three half-inch (3.5")
diameter preformed ASTM A615 grade forty (40) steel bars placed horizontally at
the center of the wall, with one bar located near the top, one bar located near
the bottom, and one bar located near mid-height of the wall.
   Table R507.3.1: Replace table with information listed below:
      “All decks without roof support shall have a minimum footing size of 12
inches in diameter and 42 inches in depth.”
      “All decks and additions (screened porches, 3 seasons rooms, 4 seasons
rooms, etc.) with roof support shall have one of the following:
      1)   Pier footings designed by a professional engineer.
      2)   12-inch wide trench footing 42 inches in depth extended out 12
inches past point load.
      3)   Spread footings 42 inches in depth with a minimum 8-inch thick
masonry wall or concrete foundation wall.
   Table R507.4: Replace table with the following information:
 
Deck Post Size  Maximum Height
4-inch x 4-inch 8 feet, 0 inches
4-inch x 6-inch 8 feet, 0 inches
6-inch x 6-inch 14 feet, 0 inches
 
   Measured to the underside of the beam.
   Section M1408: Delete in its entirety.
   Chapters 25-32: Delete chapters in their entirety.
   Chapters 34-43: Delete chapters in their entirety.
   All references to building line and zoning are void, and the subject matter
of the Zoning Regulations of the City (Title 11 of the Bettendorf City Code)
shall be applicable.
(Ord. 26-17, 8-1-2017; amd. Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-3-4: FEES ESTABLISHED; PAYMENT PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Fees Imposed: Before a permit is issued, fees shall be paid to the
Building Inspection Services Office. Fees will be based on the value of the job
at the following rates:
  Total Fee
                                        Total Fee
ADA - City plan review                  $17.00
Building (based on cost of work):
 $1.00 - $500.00                       $16.00
 $501.00 - $2,000.00                   $16.00 plus $2.00 per $100.00 value
 $2,001.00 - $25,000.00                $50.00 plus $10.00 per $1,000.00 value
 $25,001.00 - $50,000.00               $280.00 plus $7.00 per $1,000.00 value
 $50,001.00 - $100,000.00              $455.00 plus $5.00 per $1,000.00 value
 $100,001.00 - $500,000.00             $705.00 plus $4.00 per $1,000.00 value
 $500,001.00 - $1,000,000.00           $2,305.00 plus $3.50 per $1,000.00
                                        value
 $1,000,001.00 and over                $4,055.00 plus $2.50 per $1,000.00
                                        value
Demolition                              $26.50
Fence:
 Residential                           $13.50
 Commercial                            Based on value
Inspection after regular hours (hourly) $55.00 2 hours minimum
Mobile home installation                $13.50
Moving building                         $26.50
Permit renewal                          Half of original fee, minimum $16.00
Plan review required by revisions       $50.00 2 hours minimum
(hourly)
Reinspection                            $50.00
Driveway Approach:
 Residential (new or reconstructed)    $50.00
 Residential (widening only)           $25.00
 Commercial                            $100.00
Sidewalk:
 100 square feet or less               $12.00
 Each additional square foot over 100  $0.10
Sign installation                       Based on value
Tank removal (each)                     $26.50
Temporary sign:
 For 30 days                           $13.50
 For 60 days                           $27.50
Temporary use                           $13.50
 
   B.   Refunding: The authority having jurisdiction may authorize the
refunding of not more than eighty percent (80%) of the permit fee paid when no
work has been done under a permit issued in accordance with this Code. Permit
fees of fifty dollars ($50.00) or less will not be refunded.
   The authority having jurisdiction shall not authorize the refunding of any
fee paid except upon written application filed by the original permittee not
later than one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of fee payment.
   Failure to obtain a permit prior to the commencement of work will result in
a double fee and/or the issuance of a Municipal infraction citation unless the
work is an emergency as determined by the Chief Building Official. (Ord. 01-25,
1-7-2025)
10-3-5: RESERVED:    
(Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-3-6: RESERVED:    
(Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-3-7: RESERVED:    
(Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-3-8: SPECIAL ASSESSMENT DEFICIENCIES:
   A.   Authority For Collection: Pursuant to Iowa Code section 384.63, the
City Council may from time to time pass resolutions providing for the
collection of deficiencies for lots specifically benefited by a public
improvement.
   B.   Administration by Chief Building Official: The City Clerk shall provide
a listing of all deficiency assessments to the chief building official. The
chief building official shall notify the City Clerk and the City Council when a
private improvement is subsequently constructed on any lot subject to a
deficiency, including the cost thereof.
   C.   Amortization Period, Lien on Property; Appeal:
      1.   Amortization Period: The amortization period shall commence with the
adoption of the resolution of necessity and extend for the same period for
which installments of assessments for the project are made payable. When a
private improvement is constructed on a lot subject to a deficiency during the
period of amortization, the Council shall, by resolution, assess a pro rata
portion of the deficiency on that lot, in the same proportion to the total
deficiency on that lot as the number of future installments of special
assessments remaining to be paid is to the total number of installments of
assessments for the project, subject to the twenty five percent (25%)
limitation of Iowa Code section 384.62.
      2.   Lien on Property: A deficiency assessment becomes a lien on the
property and is payable in the same manner and subject to the same interest and
penalties as other special assessments.
      3.   Appeal: The City Clerk shall be directed by the City Council to
certify the deficiency assessment to the County Auditor and send a notice of
the deficiency assessment by certified mail to each affected owner. An owner
may appeal to the City Council from the amount of the assessment within thirty
(30) days of the date the notice is mailed.
   D.   Projects for Which Special Assessment Deficiency Is Established: Public
improvements and the period of amortization for which special assessment
deficiencies are established shall be enumerated as follows:
      1.   Utica Ridge Road paving, Project No. 74.6 (June 7, 1977 through June
7, 1987).
      2.   Middle Road widening, Project No. 76.8, from just east of 23rd
Street to six hundred feet (600') east of Belmont Road (January 3, 1978 through
January 3, 1988).
      3.   Hickory Hill Estates sanitary sewer, Project No. 77.13, sanitary
sewer for Hickory Hill Estates 1st, 2nd, and 3rd Additions and adjacent areas
(October 2, 1979 through October 2, 1989).
      4.   Tanglefoot Lane paving, Project No. 70.1, from Utica Ridge Road to
Devils Glen Road (January 8, 1980 through January 8, 1990).
      5.   Park Avenue sanitary sewer, Project No. 80.21, in part of Williams
Addition (November 2, 1981 through November 2, 1991).
      6.   Moencks Road sanitary sewer, Project No. 80.04, in part of Sections
13 and 14, T78N, R4E, Woodland 1st Addition, Dayton's Addition, Thurwanger's
1st Addition and J.J. Kress's Pleasant View Subdivision (January 19, 1982
through January 19, 1992).
      7.   Devils Glen Road paving, Project No. 76.11, from State Street north
to approximately two hundred feet (200') north of Devils Glen Court (March 16,
1982 through March 16, 1992).
      8.   Devils Glen Road paving, Project No. 81.09, from two hundred feet
(200') north of Devils Glen Court to a point fifty feet (50') north of the
north line of Crow Creek Park (May 3, 1983 through May 3, 1993).
      9.   Valley Drive sanitary sewer, Project No. 83.01, from Pinebrook Lane
to Valley View Drive (October 4, 1983 through October 4, 1993).
      10.   Dodds Addition sanitary sewer, Project No. 7.22, in Dodds Valley
View Addition and also serving Schumachers Sunrise Estates 1st and 2nd
Additions (August 6, 1985 through August 6, 1995).
      11.   Crestview Heights sanitary sewer, Project No. 84.32, in Crestview
Heights Addition and also serving Crestview Heights 4th Addition (January 21,
1986 through January 21, 1996).
      12.   1985 sidewalk construction, Project No. 89.39, on Woodfield Drive
from Quail Ridge Road to Woodcrest Drive (May 6, 1986 through May 6, 1996).
      13.   Heatherstone Road paving, Project No. 84-16, on Heatherstone Road
from Crow Creek Road to south of White Post Road (September 1, 1987 through
September 1, 1997).
      14.   Park Avenue - Clemons Road sanitary sewer, on Park Avenue in part
of Russell J. Williams Addition and on Clemons Road in Clemons Addition
(September 7, 1993 through September 7, 2003).
      15.   53rd Avenue paving, on 53rd Avenue, from the west City limits to
Barcelona Street and on Barcelona Street, from 53rd Avenue to a point 821.5
north of 53rd Avenue (April 19, 1994 through April 19, 2004).
      16.   Devils Glen Road paving, on Devils Glen Road from Crow Creek Park
to 53rd Avenue (January 16, 1996 through January 16, 2006).
      17.   53rd Avenue paving, on 53rd Avenue from Barcelona Street to Devils
Glen Road (March 19, 1996 through March 19, 2006). (Ord. 01-25, 1- 7-2025)
CHAPTER 4
ELECTRICAL CODE AND REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. ELECTRICAL CODE AND ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
10-4A-1: Code Adopted
10-4A-2: Reserved
10-4A-3: Preexisting Installation
10-4A-4: Electrical Contractors
10-4A-5: Homeowner Exception
10-4A-1: CODE ADOPTED:
Pursuant to notice and public hearing, the 2020 edition of the National
Electrical Code, as published by the National Fire Protection Association, is
hereby adopted and further subject to any contrary provision of city or state
code. One official copy of said code shall be on file in the offices of the
City Clerk and the Community Development Department for public inspection.
(Ord. 27-17, 8-1-2017; amd. Ord. 19-21, 11-2-2021; Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-4A-2: RESERVED:
10-4A-3: PREEXISTING INSTALLATION:
Use of existing electrical installations and equipment which were lawful at the
time, but which would violate this code if installed under current law, may be
continued if maintained in a safe condition. (Ord. 27-17, 8-1-2017; amd. Ord.
19-21, 11-2-2021; Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-4A-4: ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS:
   A.   Definition: The term "electrical contracting" shall be defined as the
business of performing the planning and supervision of electrical work
regulated by the electrical code or contracting to perform such services,
whether such work is within or without a building or structure.
   B.   Registration and Licensing:
      1.   A corporation desiring to engage in electrical contracting shall be
registered and licensed in accordance with Iowa State Code requirements.
      2.   A partnership desiring to engage in electrical contracting shall be
registered and licensed in accordance with Iowa State Code requirements.
      3.   An individual desiring to engage in electrical contracting shall be
registered and licensed in accordance with Iowa State Code requirements.
      4.   All electrical contractors doing work in the city shall be
registered and licensed in accordance with Iowa state code requirements. (Ord.
27-17, 8-1-2017; amd. Ord. 19-21, 11-2-2021; Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-4A-5: HOMEOWNER EXCEPTION:
   A.   Wiring repairs and installations of a minor nature are permitted by the
homeowner in a single-family dwelling who resides in that dwelling.
   B.   Such person(s) shall apply for a permit prior to installation, describe
the work to be done, and satisfy the electrical inspector as to his ability to
competently perform the work described. The electrical inspector shall have
full authority to determine the applicant's capability based upon the above
information which shall become a permanent part of the inspector's files.
   C.   The permit holder shall call for inspection when rough-in work is
finished. If, upon inspection, violations of this Code are found, such work
must be completed by an electrical contractor, bonded and licensed by the state
of Iowa. If the work passes inspection, the permit holder may continue. When
the work is completed, the permit holder must call for a final inspection. All
applicable inspection fees must be paid.
   D.   No homeowner is allowed to perform any work on the main electrical
service of a home before the main breaker. Homeowners are allowed to work on
branch circuit breakers and branch circuits after the main breaker of the
electrical panel. (This applies to all homeowners regardless of state
electrical licensing status)
   E.   No homeowner is allowed to perform the installation of Solar
Photovoltaic (PV) Systems or any associated equipment (This applies to all
homeowners regardless of state electrical licensing status). (Ord. 27-17, 8-1-
2017; amd. Ord. 19-21, 11-2-2021; Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
ARTICLE B. ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT AND INSTALLATIONS
SECTION:
10-4B-1: Electrical Equipment Defined
10-4B-2: Permit Required; Exceptions
10-4B-3: Application For Permit; Fees
10-4B-4: Notice Prior To Connection
10-4B-5: Inspections
10-4B-6: Removal Of Nonfunctioning Equipment
10-4B-7: Emergency Termination Of Service
10-4B-8: Enforcement; Violations
10-4B-1: ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT DEFINED:
The term "electrical equipment", as used in this chapter, means conductors and
equipment installed for the utilization of electricity supplied for light,
heat, or power, but does not include radio apparatus or equipment for wireless
reception of sounds and signals, and does not include apparatus, conductors,
and other equipment installed for or by public utilities, including common
carriers, which are under the jurisdiction of the state commerce commission,
for use in their operation as public utilities. (Ord. 27-17, 8-1-2017; amd.
Ord. 19-21, 11-2-2021; Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-4B-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: Electrical equipment shall not be installed or altered
except upon a permit issued by the building inspection department, which shall
issue permits for the installation and alteration of electrical equipment in
all cases where application is made in accordance with the terms of this
chapter.
   B.   Exceptions: An electrical permit is not required for the following
installations or alterations:
      1.   Portable motors or other portable appliances energized by means of a
cord or cable having an attachment plug end to be connected to an approved
receptacle when that cord or cable is permitted by the electrical code.
      2.   Repair or replacement of current carrying parts of any switch,
contactor, or control device.
      3.   Temporary decorative lighting.
      4.   Repair or replacement of fixed motors, transformers, or fixed
approved appliances of the same type and rating in the same location.
      5.   Reinstallation of attachment plug receptacles, but not the outlets
thereof.
      6.   Repair or replacement of any overcurrent device of the required
capacity in the same location.
      7.   Repair or replacement of electrodes or transformers of the same size
and capacity for signs or gas tube systems.
      8.   Removal of electrical wiring.
      9.   Temporary wiring for experimental purposes in suitable experimental
laboratories.
      10.   Electrical wiring, devices, appliances, apparatus or equipment
operating at less than twenty-five (25) volts and not capable of supply.
      11.   Low energy power, control and signal circuits of classes II and III
as defined in the electrical code. (Ord. 27-17, 8-1-2017; amd. Ord. 19-21, 11-
2- 2021; Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-4B-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEES:
   A.    Application; Fees: Application for permit shall be on the form
prescribed by the building inspection services office.
      Fees for permits shall be as follows:
Residential:
   New single-family residence                      $77.00
   New multi-family residence or apartment (each uni$77.00
   Incidental unit                                  $16.50
   Entrance service (repair, replace, or upgrade)   $16.50
   Temporary service                                $50.00
Room addition or remodel:
   1-2 rooms                                        $16.50
   Each additional room                             $5.50
   Metal building grounding                         $27.50
   Swimming pool grounding and/or pump              $27.50
 
   B.   Refunding:
      1.   The authority having jurisdiction may authorize the refunding of not
more than eighty percent (80%) of the permit fee paid when no work has been
done under a permit issued in accordance with this code. Permit fees of fifty
dollars ($50.00) or less will not be refunded.
      2.   The authority having jurisdiction shall not authorize the refunding
of any fee paid except upon written application filed by the original permittee
not later than one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of fee payment.
(Ord. 27-17, 8-1-2017; amd. Ord. 19-21, 11-2-2021; Ord. 01-24, 1-16-2024; Ord.
01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-4B-4: NOTICE PRIOR TO CONNECTION:
Any person engaged in commercial light or power transmission and furnishing
current to consumers shall, before connecting any installations, give the
inspector notice of the proposed connection, giving the name of the consumer,
and the location of the connection by street and number. (Ord. 27-17, 8-1-2017;
amd. Ord. 19-21, 11-2-2021; Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-4B-5: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Code Compliance: The city electrician shall inspect all installation or
alteration of electrical equipment prior to its placement in service. Any
equipment or installation found to be in violation of code shall be altered to
come into compliance, or electrical service shall be denied.
   B.   Installations Hidden From View: All installations of electrical
equipment which are to be hidden from view shall, prior to cover up, be
inspected for compliance with code.
   C.   Installations Covered Prior To Inspection: In the event any
installation is covered prior to inspection, the wall covering or obstruction
shall be ordered to be removed to allow for inspection. However, this provision
shall not be exercised to force inspection of private homes in which the wiring
is already installed under a previous code. (Ord. 27-17, 8-1-2017; amd. Ord.
19-21, 11-2-2021)
10-4B-6: REMOVAL OF NONFUNCTIONING EQUIPMENT:
The inspector, by letter, shall notify all persons owning "dead" wires, poles,
apparatus, or fixtures to remove them within ten (10) days, and upon the
failure or refusal to fully comply with the notice, the inspector is hereby
empowered to remove the dead wires, poles, apparatus, or fixtures at owner's
expense. (Ord. 27-17, 8-1-2017; amd. Ord. 19-21, 11-2-2021; Ord. 01-25, 1-7-
2025)
10-4B-7: EMERGENCY TERMINATION OF SERVICE:
Whenever electrical service is provided in a manner contrary to law, or when it
is determined that continuation of service would endanger public safety on
emergency rescue attempts, such service shall be ordered to cease immediately.
(Ord. 27-17, 8-1-2017; amd. Ord. 19-21, 11-2-2021; Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-4B-8: ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Enforcement: The city electrician shall be charged with the enforcement
of this chapter.
   B.   Violations: Violations of this chapter shall be deemed municipal
infractions. (Ord. 27-17, 8-1-2017; amd. Ord. 19-21, 11-2-2021; Ord. 01-25, 1-
7-2025)
CHAPTER 5
MECHANICAL CODES AND REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
10-5-1: Codes Adopted
10-5-2: Effective Date Of Adoption; Impact On Buildings
10-5-3: Amendments To Mechanical Code
10-5-4: Fees Established; Payment Prerequisite To Issuance Of Permit
 
Notes
1 1. See state regulations at IAC 641.61.
10-5-1: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: Pursuant to published notice and public hearing as required
by law, the International Mechanical Code 2021 is hereby adopted as follows:
      As adopted and amended by the State of Iowa Administrative Code 641
Chapter 61, subject to the amendments and adoptions by the State of Iowa
Department of Public Health.
      (https://www.legis.iowa.gov/docs/iac/chapter/641.61.pdf)
   B.   Official Copy: An official copy of the International Mechanical Code
2021 is on file in the offices of the City Clerk and the Community Development
Department for public inspection, and copies thereof are for sale to the public
for the current retail price. (Ord. 07-23, 2-7-2023; amd. Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-5-2: EFFECTIVE DATE OF ADOPTION; IMPACT ON BUILDINGS:
All mechanical work is required to comply with the Code in force at the time
the mechanical permit is issued. The City retains the right to prosecute owners
of mechanical work for code violations under the applicable Code, even if such
Codes are amended or replaced by newer versions. (Ord. 07-23, 2-7-2023; amd.
Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-5-3: AMENDMENTS TO MECHANICAL CODE:
   A.   Amendments: The following amendments, modifications, additions, and
deletions are hereby made to the International Mechanical Code 2021:
   Section 101.1. "City of Bettendorf" is inserted as the [name of
jurisdiction.]
   [Add new Section as follows]
   Section 102.4.1. Minor installations by property owners. The following minor
installations, alterations, or repairs may be conducted by an unlicensed
property owner who lives in the house in a residential application:
      1.   Ductwork
      2.   Bathroom Venting
   Sections 103 through Sections 115:
   (Adopt these sections with amendments as listed)
   Section 103:
      Replace CODE COMPLIANCE AGENCY with "COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT".
   [Add new section as follows]
      Section 104.9. Licensing. Provisions for licensing and permitting shall
be determined by the Iowa Department of Public Health.
   [Add new section as follows]
      Section 109.7 Fee schedule. See Table located in Title 10, Chapter 5,
Article 4 of the Bettendorf City Code.
   Section 114.1 General. Amend first sentence to add "Mechanical" before Board
of Appeals.
   Section 114.3 Qualifications. Delete section in its entirety. (Ord. 07-23,
2-7-2023; amd. Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-5-4: FEES ESTABLISHED; PAYMENT PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Fees Imposed: Before a permit is issued, a fee shall be paid to the
Building Inspection Services Office. Fees will be based on the value of the job
at the following rates:
 
$0.00 - $2,000.00            $24.50
$2,001.00 to, and including, $24.50 plus 1.5 percent of the balance
$250,000.00                  rounded to the nearest hundred
$250,001.00 and over         $3,750.00 plus 1 percent of the balance
                             rounded to the nearest hundred
Temporary heat inspection    $50.00
Re-inspection                $45.00 per hour
Inspection after hours       $46.50 per hour (2 hour minimum)
 
   B.   Refunding: The authority having jurisdiction may authorize the
refunding of not more than eighty percent (80%) of the permit fee paid when no
work has been done under a permit issued in accordance with this Code. Permit
fees of fifty dollars ($50.00) or less will not be refunded.
      The authority having jurisdiction shall not authorize the refunding of
any fee paid except upon written application filed by the original permittee
not later than one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of fee payment.
(Ord. 07-23, 2-7-2023; amd. Ord. 02-24, 1-16-2024; Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
CHAPTER 6
PLUMBING CODES AND REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
10-6-1: Codes Adopted
10-6-2: Effective Date Of Adoption; Impact On Buildings
10-6-3: Amendments To Uniform Plumbing Code
10-6-4: Fees Established; Payment Prerequisite To Issuance Of Permit
 
Notes
1 1. See state regulations at IAC 641.25.
10-6-1: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: Pursuant to published notice and public hearing, as required
by law, the 2021 Uniform Plumbing Code is hereby adopted as follows:
      As adopted and amended by the State of Iowa Administrative Code 641
Chapter 25, subject to the amendments and adoptions by the State of Iowa
Department of Public Health.
      (https://www.legis.iowa.gov/docs/iac/chapter/641.25.pdf)
   B.   Official Copy: An official copy of the 2021 Uniform Plumbing Code is on
file in the offices of the City Clerk and the Community Development Department
for public inspection, and copies thereof are for sale to the public at the
current retail price. (Ord. 08-23, 2-7-2023; amd. Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-6-2: EFFECTIVE DATE OF ADOPTION; IMPACT ON BUILDINGS:
All plumbing work is required to comply with the Code in force at the time the
plumbing permit is issued. The City may prosecute owners of plumbing work for
code violations under the applicable Code, even if such Codes are amended or
replaced by newer versions. (Ord. 08-23, 2-7-2023; amd. Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-6-3: AMENDMENTS TO UNIFORM PLUMBING CODE:
The following amendments, modifications, additions, and deletions to the
Uniform Plumbing Code 2021, are hereby made:
   Section 102.1 Conflicts Between Codes. Delete section in its entirety.
   [Add new section as follows]
   Section 102.4.3 Minor Installations by Property Owners. The following minor
installations, alterations, or repairs can be conducted by an unlicensed
property owner who lives at the house in a residential application:
      (1)   Water lines within a one- or two-family dwelling
      (2)   Repair or replacement of faucets and valves
      (3)   Cleaning of clogged drain lines or floor drains
      (4)   Installation of shower water lines
      (5)   Toilet repairs and placement
   Adopt the following sections with amendments as listed: Section 103 through
Section 107
   Section 103.3.1 Licensing. Delete "Provisions for licensing shall be
determined by the Authority Having Jurisdiction" and substitute the following
therefor: "Provisions for licensing and permitting shall be determined by the
Iowa Department of Public Health".
   Section 104.3.2 Plan Review Fees. Delete section in its entirety.
   Section 104.5 Fees. Delete "104.5 Fees." and substitute the following
therefor: "See Title 10, Chapter 6, Article 4 of the Bettendorf City Code".
   Table 104.5 Plumbing Permit Fees. Delete table in its entirety.
   Section 104.5.3 Fee Refunds. Delete section in its entirety and substitute
the following therefor:
      “See Title 10, Chapter 6, Article 4 of the Bettendorf City Code for
refund policies.”
   Section 209.0 Gravity Grease Interceptor. Delete "300 gallons" and
substitute the following therefor: "750 gallons".
   Section 218 Private Sewage Disposal System. Delete "under the procedures set
forth elsewhere in this code" and substitute the following therefor: "by Scott
County Health Department."
   Section 301.2 Minimum Standards. Add the following exception: Exception 1:
ABS and PB pipe shall not be allowed for any use under this code.
   Section 312.6 Freezing Protection. Add the following to the end of section:
"All underground piping shall have a minimum of 48 inches of earth coverage."
   [Add new section as follows]
   Section 312.6.1 Protection from Property Line. All underground piping shall
maintain a minimum 48-inch clearance to property lines.
   [Add new section as follows]
   Section 715.4 Broken Sewer Line; Property Owner to Repair. It shall be the
duty of any property owner to repair a broken building sewer lateral up to and
including the tap to or intersecting fitting.
   [Add new section as follows]
   Section 715.4.1 Bituminized Fiber Pipe (Commonly Called Orangeburg Pipe). It
shall be unlawful for any person or firm to attempt a repair of a bituminized
fiber pipe lateral. Such lateral shall be removed in its entirety and replaced
by approved materials found in Section 8-2A-9 of the City Code. In lieu of
removal and replacement, the lateral may be lined with a cured-in-place pipe
(CIPP) liner which must also include a sewer lateral connection liner.
   Section 717.1 General. Delete section and substitute the following therefor:
"No sewer lateral serving an attached or detached single-family dwelling unit
shall be less than four (4) inches in diameter. No building lateral for a
commercial building or a multiple dwelling shall be less than six (6) inches in
diameter (see also Section 8-2A-11 of the City Code).
   Section 719.1 Locations. Delete in its entirety and substitute the following
therefor: "Cleanouts shall be placed within two (2) feet of either the inside
or outside of the building structure. The cleanout shall extend to a minimum of
six (6) inches above finished grade. A cleanout shall be located inside the
building at the connection of a PVC schedule 40 building drain.
   Additional building sewer cleanouts shall be installed at intervals not to
exceed seventy-five (75) feet in straight runs."
   Sections 722.2 through 722.5: Delete in their entirety and add the following
thereto: "Refer to Scott County Health Department."
   Section 802.0 Approvals. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 906.7 Frost or Snow Closure. In the first sentence delete "2 inches"
and substitute the following therefor: "4 inches".
   Appendices E, G, H, and J. Delete in their entirety.
   Appendix K. POTABLE RAINWATER CATCHMENT SYSTEMS. Delete in its entirety and
add the following thereto: "Refer to Scott County Health Department. (Ord. 08-
23, 2-7-2023; amd. Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-6-4: FEES ESTABLISHED; PAYMENT PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Fees Imposed: Before a permit is issued, a fee shall be paid to the
Building Inspection Services Office. Fees will be based on the value of the job
at the following rates:
Residential
First Fixture or opening           $16.50
Each additional opening            $9.00
Sewer connection or repair         $16.50
Water connection or repair         $16.50
Water heater                       $16.50
Water softener                     $16.50
Washing machine connection         $16.50
Dishwashing machine connection     $16.50
Water-cooled condensing unit       $16.50
Water piping                       $16.50
Excavation in right-of-way         $22.00
Sewer use refund meter             $16.50
Backflow device                    $16.50
Re-Inspection                      $45.00
Inspection outside normal business $46.50 per hour
hours (2-hour minimum)
Industrial/Commercial
$500 or less in value              $16.50
$501 - $4,000 in value             $16.50 plus 2% of balance rounded to
                                   nearest hundred
$4,001 - $300,000 in value         $86.50 plus 1.5% of balance rounded to
                                   nearest hundred
$300,001 and over in value         $4,526.50 plus 1% of balance rounded to
                                   nearest hundred
Inspection outside normal business $46.50 per hour
hours (2-hour minimum)
 
   B.   Refunding: The authority having jurisdiction may authorize the
refunding of not more than eighty percent (80%) of the permit fee paid when no
work has been done under a permit issued in accordance with this Code. Permit
fees of fifty dollars ($50.00) or less will not be refunded.
      The authority having jurisdiction shall not authorize the refunding of
any fee paid except upon written application filed by the original permittee
not later than one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of fee payment.
(Ord. 08-23, 2-7-2023; amd. Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
CHAPTER 7
FIRE PREVENTION CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-7-1: International Fire Code Adopted
10-7-2: Amendments
10-7-1: INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE ADOPTED:
That a certain document, one (1) copy of which is on file in the office of the
City Clerk of the City of Bettendorf, being marked and designated as the
International Fire Code, 2021 edition, including errata and Appendix Chapters
B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, and N as published by the International Code
Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Fire Code of the City of Bettendorf,
in the State of Iowa regulating and governing the safeguarding of life and
property from fire and explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling,
and use of hazardous substances, materials and devices, and from conditions
hazardous to life or property in the occupancy of buildings and premises as
herein provided, providing for the issuance of permits and each, and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of said Fire Code on
file in the office of the City Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof, as if fully set out in this ordinance, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, prescribed in the following sections of this
chapter. (Ord. 30-17, 8-1-2017; amd. Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-7-2: AMENDMENTS:
The 2021 edition of the International Fire Code is amended as follows:
Section [A] 101.1 Title is amended by inserting ‘the City of Bettendorf' in
place of [NAME OF JURISDICTION].
Section [A] 101.2.1 Appendices shall be deleted and replaced as follows:
   [A] 101.2.1 Appendices. Appendices B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K and N are
specifically adopted by the City of Bettendorf with amendments as noted in
Title 10, Chapter 7, of the Municipal Code.
Section [A] 102.7 Referenced codes and standards shall be amended as follows:
   Section [A] 102.7 Referenced codes and standards.
All references throughout the International Fire Code to the International
Building Code shall refer to the building code as adopted elsewhere in the City
Code (Title 10, Chapter 3).
All references throughout the International Fire Code to the International
Residential Code shall refer to the residential code as adopted elsewhere in
the City Code (Title 10, Chapter 3).
All references throughout the International Fire Code to the International
Property Maintenance Code shall refer to the building code as adopted elsewhere
in the City Code (Title 10, Chapter 8).
All references throughout the International Fire Code to the International
Mechanical Code shall refer to the mechanical code as adopted elsewhere in the
City Code (Title 10, Chapter 5).
All references to the International Plumbing Code shall refer to the plumbing
code as adopted elsewhere in the City Code (Title 10, Chapter 6).
All references to the ICC Electrical Code shall refer to the electrical code as
adopted elsewhere in the City Code (Title 10, Chapter 4).
Section [A] 103.1 Creation of agency shall be amended by inserting 'Bettendorf
Fire Department' in place of [INSERT NAME OF DEPARTMENT].
Section 104 Authority at fires and other emergencies shall be amended by
addition of the following section:
   104.12.4 Evacuation. The fire code official is authorized to order an
operation or use stopped, or the evacuation of any premises, building, or
vehicle or portion thereof which has or is a fire, life safety, or health
hazard.
Section [A] 105.2 Application shall be amended by addition of the following
section:
   [A] 105.2 (a) Permit. A permit application will need to be completed and
submitted along with the applicable permit fee to the Bettendorf Building
Inspection Services Department for installation of the appropriate system.
Permit application forms and information are available at the Bettendorf
Building Inspection Services Department office at 4403 Devils Glen Road,
Bettendorf, IA, 52722 or at the Building Department's website.
Section 105.5 Required operational permits shall be amended by addition of the
following sentence: The fire code official at their discretion shall send plans
for an operational permit request to an outside agency for review. The fire
code official shall choose the plans review agency. The applicant shall pay all
fees associated with the plan review directly to the outside agency. The permit
shall not be issued until the review fees have been paid.
Section [A] 105.6 Required construction permits shall be amended by addition of
the following sentence: The fire code official at their discretion shall send
plans for a construction permit request to an outside agency for review. The
fire code official shall choose the plans review agency. The applicant shall
pay all fees associated with the plan review directly to the outside agency.
The permit shall not be issued until the review fees have been paid.
Section [A] 107.1 Fees shall be amended by addition of the following section:
   107.1.1 Permit Fee Schedule. The following permit fees will be based on cost
of work in accordance with Bettendorf City Code
10-3-4 .
   BUILDING FEES; PAYMENT PREREQUISITE TO PERMIT ISSUANCE:
   Automatic Fire Sprinkler System (13 and 13R)
   Fire Alarm and Detection System
   Fire Pumps and Related Equipment
   Private Fire Hydrant Mains
   Compressed Gases
   Cryogenic Fluids
   Energy Storage Systems
   Fuel Cell Power Systems
   Hazardous Materials
   LP Gas
   Spraying or Dipping
   The following permit fees will be based on a flat rate:
   Automatic Fire Sprinkler 13D Systems   $75.00
   Underground and Aboveground Storage Tanks   $50.00
   Open Burning, Tents, and Canopies   $10.00
Section [A] 111.1 Board of appeals established shall be deleted and replaced as
follows:
   [A] 111.1 Board of Appeals Established. See Title 2, Chapter 4, Article A of
the City of Bettendorf City Code for Board of Appeals process.
Section [A] 112.4 Violation penalties shall be deleted (note: Subsection [A]
112.4.1 shall not be deleted) and replaced as follows:
   [A] 112.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who shall violate any of the
provisions of this Code hereby adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who
shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall
build in violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans
submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued
thereunder and from which no appeal has been taken or who shall fail to comply
with such order as affirmed or modified by any court of competent jurisdiction,
within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every such violation
be guilty of a municipal infraction. The imposition of one penalty for any
violation shall not permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time; and when not specified, each day that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
SECTION 202 GENERAL DEFINITIONS shall be amended by addition of the following
definition:
   CROWD MANAGER. Crowd Manager is responsible for safe crowd movement during
daily activities and special events, means of egress, assisting venue
occupants, and overseeing emergency response and evacuation plans.
Section [M] COMMERCIAL COOKING APPLIANCES shall be deleted and replaced as
follows:
   [M] COMMERCIAL COOKING APPLIANCES. Appliances used in a commercial food
service establishment for heating or cooking food, and which produce grease
vapors, steam, fumes, smoke, or odors that are required to be removed through a
local exhaust ventilation system. Such appliances include deep fat fryers,
upright broilers, griddles, broilers, steam-jacketed kettles, hot-top ranges,
under-fired broilers (charbroilers), ovens, barbecues, rotisseries, residential
stoves/ovens, and similar appliances. For the purpose of this definition, a
food service establishment shall include any commercial building or portion
thereof used for the preparation and serving of food including for employees.
Section 307.2 Permit required shall be deleted and replaced as follows:
   307.2 Permit required. Open burning shall be conducted in accordance with
Section 307 and its subsections and with Sections 4-3-1 and 7-1-18 of the City
of Bettendorf City Code. Open burning shall also be conducted as required by
other governmental agencies regulating emissions. Application for such approval
shall only be presented by and issued to the owner of the land upon which the
fire is to be kindled.
Section 307.4 Location shall be amended by addition of the following section:
   307.4.4 Permanent Outdoor Fire Pits or Fire Feature Devices. Fire Pits shall
comply with all the following restrictions:
   1.   The fire pit must be in an approved location at least fifteen (15) feet
from a structure.
   2.   If the building is equipped with fire sprinklers and there is an
overhang in the area where the firepit is being used, then the overhang must
have horizontal sidewall sprinkler protection.
   3.   There must be an emergency stop button installed within fifteen (15)
feet (line of sight) to disconnect the fuel gas in the event of an emergency.
   4.   The emergency shut off must be labeled using a weatherproof sign with
letters on a contrasting background.
   5.   Solid fuels are strictly prohibited for fire pits and fire feature
devices.
   Exception: Fire pits and fire features used at one- and two-family
dwellings.
Section 405.3 Frequency shall be amended by addition of the following section:
   405.3.1 Drills in Group E. Fire and evacuation drills in Group E occupancies
shall be conducted in accordance with Section 100.31 of the Iowa Administrative
Code. Emergency evacuation/fire drills shall be conducted at least four (4)
times a year. Not less than two (2) drills shall be conducted between July 1
and December 31 each year and not less than two (2) drills shall be conducted
between January 1 and June 30 of each year.
Section 405.3 Frequency Table 405.3 shall be amended by addition of the
following footnote:
   d.   Group E occupancies shall conduct fire and evacuation drills in
accordance with Section 405.3.1
Section 505.1 Address identification shall be deleted and replaced as follows:
   505.1 Address identification. See Title 10, Chapter 11, in the Bettendorf
City Code for Building Numbering.
Section 507.5.1.1 Hydrant for standpipe systems shall be deleted and replaced
as follows:
   507.5.1.1 Hydrant for standpipe systems and/or fire department connections.
Buildings equipped with a standpipe and/or a fire department connection
installed in accordance with Section 912 shall have a fire hydrant located on a
fire access road within one hundred (100) feet (30 m) of the fire department
connection as measured by an approved route around the exterior of the
building.
   Exception: The distance shall be permitted to exceed one hundred (100) feet
(30 m) where approved by the fire code official.
Section 507.5.3 Private fire service mains and water tanks shall be amended by
addition of the following footnote:
   4.   All private fire hydrants must be painted red in color.
Section 507.5 Fire hydrant systems shall be amended by addition of the
following sections:
   507.5.7 Fire hydrant height. Fire hydrants shall be installed a minimum of
eighteen (18) inches from the nominal ground level to the center of the lowest
water outlet.
      507.5.7.1 Fire hydrant outlet direction. All fire hydrants shall be
positioned so that the four and one-half (4 ½) inch connection is facing the
street or driveway accessible to the fire department apparatus.
      507.5.7.2 Fire hydrant threads. All fire hydrants within the City of
Bettendorf and within Panorama Park and Scott County Benefited Fire District
No. 1 shall have National Standard Threads (NST).
      507.5.7.3 Size of main. No fire hydrant shall be installed on a water
main less than six (6) inches in diameter. Water hydrant mains shall be of
ductile iron material, appropriately sized and installed to provide the
required water flow for hydrants and fire service mains supplied by it. Minimum
of six (6) inches in diameter for fire service mains supplying NFPA 13 systems.
All NFPA 13 and 13R fire service materials in the right-of-way shall be ductile
iron. 13D fire mains and appurtenances shall be of approved materials per 12-
3A-3 Standard Specifications Adopted of the City of Bettendorf City Code.
      507.5.7.4 Flow. The minimum flow requirement for a water main serving a
fire hydrant is the rate of water flow, at a residual pressure of twenty (20)
pounds per square inch (20 psi) and for a specified duration, as specified in
Appendix B of this code.
Section 901.2 Construction documents shall be amended by addition of the
following sections:
   901.2 (a) Water based protection systems. Water based fire protection
systems. A qualified person shall have a minimum National Institute for
Certification in Engineering Technologies [NICET] Level III certification for
Water Based Systems Layout OR be a Professional Licensed Engineer with
experience in life safety system design. The designer must also be licensed
with the State of Iowa Department of Inspections, Appeals and Licensing.
   Submittals must include an electronic (.pdf) version of the design,
specifications, cut sheets, and hydraulic calculations to the Bettendorf
Building Department. One (1) full size set of the drawing must also be sent to
the Bettendorf Building Department located at 4403 Devils Glen Road,
Bettendorf, IA, 52722 for review. Both sets of drawings must be stamped and
signed by the submitter.
   901.2 (b) Fire alarm systems. A qualified person shall have a minimum
National Institute for Certification in Engineering Technologies [NICET] Level
III certification for Fire Alarm Systems OR be a Professional Licensed Engineer
with experience in life safety system design. The designer must also be
licensed with the State of Iowa Department of Inspections, Appeals and
Licensing.
   Submittals must include an electronic (.pdf) version of the drawing along
with wiring/device specifications and voltage drop calculations to the
Bettendorf Building Department. One (1) full size set of the drawings must also
be sent to the Bettendorf Building Department located at 4403 Devils Glen Road,
Bettendorf, IA, 52722 for review. Both sets of drawings must be stamped and
signed by the submitter.
Section 901.4.6 Appearance of equipment shall be amended by addition of the
following section:
   901.4.6.1 Fire sprinkler riser room. A fire sprinkler riser room shall be
separated from the electrical room. The riser room shall have no electrical
panels, devices, or apparatus inside the room other than the outlets or support
equipment (lighting, air compressor, and heater) required for the use of the
fire sprinkler system and/or the fire alarm panel. The sprinkler riser room
shall not be exclusively accessed from the electrical room, but the electrical
room may be accessed from the riser room. Emergency lighting shall be provided
in the fire pump room or automatic sprinkler riser room.
Section 901.4.7.3 Environment shall be amended by addition of the following
sentence:
   The fire pump room or automatic sprinkler riser room shall have a supervised
room temperature sensor.
Section 901.6.3 Records shall be amended by addition of the following section:
   901.6.3.2 Records management. Inspection record submission. Contractors who
perform installation, inspection, testing, and/or maintenance services on fire
and life safety systems are required to electronically submit all installation
and compliant and non-compliant inspection reports to the Fire Department's
third party compliance management platform approved by the fire code official
within thirty (30) calendar days of the installation/inspection date. Reports
submitted after thirty (30) calendar days may incur late fees.
Section 903.3.1.2.1 Balconies and decks shall be deleted and replaced as
follows:
   903.3.1.2.1 Group R balconies and decks. Sprinkler protection shall be
provided for all exterior balconies, decks, and ground floor patios of dwelling
units where the building is required to have a fire sprinkler system installed.
Sidewall sprinklers that are used to protect such areas shall be permitted to
be located such that their deflectors are within one (1) inch to six (6) inches
below the structural members and a maximum distance of fourteen (14) inches
below the deck of the exterior balconies and decks.
Section 903.3.1.2 NFPA 13R sprinkler systems shall be amended by addition of
the following section:
   903.3.1.2.4 Fire sprinklers for canopies. A canopy covering a door that is
required to be marked as an exit shall be required to have fire sprinklers
installed outside that door if the canopy extends more than four (4) feet out
from the door and is twelve (12) feet or less in height from the ground
regardless of whether the canopy is combustible or non-combustible. Canopies
that have vehicle access under them with door openings shall be required to
have fire sprinklers installed under the total canopy regardless of whether the
canopy is combustible or non-combustible.
SECTION 903 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS shall be amended by addition of the
following section:
   903.7 Sprinkler zones. Automatic sprinkler system zones shall not exceed the
area permitted by NFPA 13 or NFPA 13R and shall provide a sprinkler control
valve and waterflow device for each normally occupied floor. The location of
sprinkler control valves must be approved by the fire code official.
Section 904.13.2 System interconnection shall be amended by addition of the
following section:
   904.13.2 (a) Ventilation operation. The ventilation system shall shut down
the make-up air to the hood and continue to exhaust upon activation of the hood
fire extinguishing system. Supply air openings other than part of the hood
system shall be a minimum of six (6) feet from any part of a Type I Hood.
Supply air openings closer than six (6) feet must shut down upon activation of
the extinguishing system.
Section 905.1 General shall be deleted and replaced as follows:
   905.1 General. Standpipe systems shall be provided in new buildings and
structures in accordance with Sections 905.2 through 905.12. In buildings used
for high-piled combustible storage, fire protection shall be in accordance with
Chapter 32. For the purpose of Section 905 "Standpipe Systems", Sections
905.3.1 through 905.6.2 shall be amended by deleting all references to Class II
and Class III standpipe systems and inserting Class I standpipe systems in
their place.
Section 905.2 Installation standard shall be deleted and replaced as follows:
   905.2 Installation standard. A Class I standpipe system shall provide two
and one-half (2 ½) inch (63.5 mm) hose connections to supply water for use by
fire departments and those trained in handling heavy fire streams. Also, two
and one-half (2 ½) inch to one and one-half (1 ½) inch reducers with one and
one-half (1 ½) inch caps shall be provided on each standpipe outlet. Two and
one-half (2 ½) inch and one and one-half (1 ½) inch threads shall be National
Standard Threads (NST). No hose is to be provided.
   Exception: Hose may be provided when the facility has an assigned and
trained fire brigade.
   Section 905.3.4.1 Hose and cabinet shall be deleted in its entirety.
   Section 905.5.3 Class II system 1-inch hose shall be deleted in its
entirety.
   Section 905.3 Required installations shall be amended by addition of the
following section:
   905.3.9 Building footprint and access. Where the most remote portion of a
floor or story is more than four hundred (400) feet from a hose connection or
fire department access road, the fire code official is authorized to require
standpipes to be provided in approved locations.
   Section 907.1 General shall be amended by addition of the following
sections:
   907.1.4 Fire alarm control panels. Each building shall have no more than one
(1) Fire Alarm Control Panel (FACP). Installation of the fire alarm control
panel shall not exceed six (6) feet in height measured from the floor to the
top of the panel.
   Exceptions:
   1.   Panel height may be altered by the code official.
   2.   Suppression system releasing panels are not required to meet the
limitation in the number of panels.
   907.1.5 Fire alarm annunciator panels. The fire code official can require
the addition of fire alarm annunciator panels based on the size of building and
access to the building.
Section 907.2 Where required - new buildings and structures shall be deleted
and replaced as follows:
   907.2 Where Required - new buildings and structures. An approved addressable
fire alarm system complying with the provisions of this Code and NFPA 72 shall
be installed when the gross square footage of a building is equal to or greater
than the area as specified in Sections 903.2.1 through 903.2.11 inclusive,
subject to the authority having jurisdiction or by Section 907.2, whichever
shall be more restrictive.
   Exceptions:
   1.   Buildings with eight (8) or less initiating devices may use zoned
systems provided only one (1) device is used per zone. Each device shall have a
plain English LCD (liquid crystal display). This alpha/numeric descriptor
location is required to be reported to the Scott Emergency Communications
Center upon activation of the fire alarm system.
   2.   R-3 dwellings are not required to meet Section 907.2 of this Code.
Section 907.2 Where required - new buildings and structures shall be amended by
addition of the following sections:
   907.2 (a) Manual fire alarm pull boxes. Manual fire alarm pull boxes ("pull
stations") shall be required where deemed necessary by the fire code official.
   907.2 (b) Monitoring. All fire alarm systems shall be monitored by a UL
listed monitoring station.
   907.2 (c) Descriptive location. Each address point identification shall have
an alpha/numeric descriptor location for the fire alarm system. This alpha/
numeric descriptor location is required to be reported to the Scott Emergency
Communications Center upon activation of the fire alarm system.
   907.2 (d) Detection location. Where corridors and/or hallways are designed
as the path of egress, and at the top of stairwells that serve more than two
(2) floors and are protected by fire sprinkler systems, they shall also be
protected by smoke detection. Smoke detection shall be of the photo electric
type or as approved by the code official.
Section 907.2.1 Group A shall be deleted and replaced as follows:
   907.2.1 Group A. A manual and automatic fire alarm system shall be installed
in accordance with NFPA 72 in Group A Occupancies and have an occupant load of
three hundred (300) or more. Group A occupancies not separated from one another
in accordance with Section 707.3.10 of the International Building Code shall be
considered as a single occupancy for the purposes of applying this section.
Portions of Group E occupancies occupied for assembly purposes shall be
provided with a fire alarm system as required for the Group E occupancy.
   Exception: Manual fire alarm boxes are not required where the building is
equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance
with Section 903.3.1.1 and the occupant notification appliances will activate
throughout the notification zones upon sprinkler water flow.
Section 907.2.1 Group A shall be amended by addition of the following section:
   907.2.1.3 Group A Occupancies. In Group A occupancies with an occupant load
of one thousand (1000) or more, the activation of the fire alarm or fire
sprinkler system, shall automatically shut down or stop music, sound systems,
conflicting or confusing sounds and visual distractions.
Section 907.2.3 Group E shall be deleted and replaced as follows:
   907.2.3 Group E. In the absence of a complete automatic sprinkler system, a
complete automatic detection system utilizing an emergency voice/alarm
communication system shall be installed throughout the entire Group E
occupancy. A Group E occupancy with a complete automatic sprinkler system shall
be provided with a fire alarm system utilizing an emergency voice/alarm
communication system in compliance with Section 907.5.2.2 and installed in
accordance with Section 907.6. As a minimum, smoke detection shall be provided
in corridors at a maximum spacing of thirty (30) feet on center, and heat or
smoke detection shall be provided in any hazardous or non-occupied areas in all
new or existing Group E occupancies.
   Exceptions:
      1.   Group E occupancies with an occupant load of less than fifty (50).
      2.   Manual fire alarm boxes are not required in Group E occupancies
where all the following apply:
      2.1.   Interior corridors are protected by smoke detectors with alarm
verification.
      2.2.   Auditoriums, cafeterias, gymnasiums, and the like are protected by
heat detectors or other approved detection devices.
      2.3.   Shops and laboratories involving dusts or vapors are protected by
heat detectors or other approved detection devices.
      2.4.   Off-premises monitoring is provided.
      2.5.   The capability to activate the evacuation signal from a central
point is provided.
      2.6.   In buildings where normally occupied spaces are provided with a
two-way communication system between such spaces and a constantly attended
receiving station from which a general evacuation alarm can be sounded, except
in locations specifically designated by the fire code official.
      2.   Manual fire alarm boxes shall not be required in Group E occupancies
where the building is equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler
system, the notification appliances will activate on sprinkler water flow, and
manual activation is provided from a normally occupied location.
      3.   Emergency voice/alarm communication systems meeting the requirements
of Section 907.5.2.2 and installed in accordance with Section 907.6 shall not
be required in Group E occupancies with occupant loads of one hundred (100) or
less, provided activation of the fire alarm system initiates an approved
occupant notification signal in accordance with Section 907.5.
Section 907.2.8 Group R-1 shall be deleted and replaced as follows:
   907.2.8 Group R General. Group R 1; Group R-2 apartment houses, condominiums
and boarding houses (non-transient) convents, dormitories, fraternities,
sororities, and monasteries; and Group R 4 shall have a monitored addressable
fire alarm system. Upon adoption of this Fire Code, Group R 1; Group R-
2 apartment houses, condominiums and boarding houses (non-transient) convents,
dormitories, fraternities, sororities, and monasteries that have existing
automatic fire alarm systems shall comply when their existing fire alarm system
needs replacement to have that fire alarm system monitored.
Section 907.2.8.1 Manual Fire Alarm System shall be deleted in its entirety.
Section 907.2.8.2 Automatic smoke detection system shall be deleted and
replaced as follows:
   907.2.8.2 Automatic smoke detection system. An automatic smoke detection
system that activates the occupant notification system in accordance with
Section 907.5 shall be installed in Group R occupancies.
      1.   Common spaces outside of dwelling units and sleeping units
      2.   Laundry rooms, mechanical equipment rooms, and storage rooms
      3.   All interior corridors serving sleeping units or dwelling units
   Exception: An automatic smoke detection system is not required in buildings
that do not have interior corridors serving sleeping units or dwelling units
and where each sleeping unit or dwelling unit either has a means of egress door
opening directly to an exterior exit access that leads directly to an exit or a
means of egress door opening directly to an exit.
   Required smoke alarms in dwelling units and sleeping units in Group R
occupancies shall be interconnected with the fire alarm system in accordance
with NFPA 72.
Section 907.2.9 Group R-2 shall be deleted in its entirety.
Section 907.2.9.1 Manual fire alarm system shall be deleted in its entirety.
Section 907.2.9.3 Group R-2 college and university buildings shall be deleted
in its entirety.
Section 907.2.11 Single- and multi-station smoke alarms shall be deleted and
replaced as follows:
   907.2.11 Single and multi-station smoke alarms. Listed single and multiple-
station smoke alarms complying with UL 217 shall be installed in accordance
with provisions of this Fire Code and the household fire warning equipment
provision of NFPA 72. Smoke alarms in dwelling units shall be addressable with
sounder bases and monitored by the building fire alarm system as a supervisory
signal only. Mini horns in dwelling units are not required if notification from
a building fire alarm system is through the smoke alarms with sounder bases.
   Note: Section 907.2.11 only applies to R-1, R-2, R-4 and I-1.
Delete the exceptions for 907.6.3
Section 907.2 Where required - new buildings and structures shall be amended by
addition of the following section:
   907.2.24 Mixed Occupancy Requirements. All buildings containing dwelling
unit(s) and/or guest room(s) which also contain other occupancies or uses shall
be provided with the following protection from fire in addition to all
applicable provisions of the International Fire Code and International Building
Code duly adopted by the City.
   (1)   All dwelling units and/or guest rooms shall be provided with smoke
detectors conforming to the International Fire Code, and International Building
Code.
   (2)   Alarms, when required shall be interconnected to alert all occupants
both residential and non-residential.
   Section 912.4.1 Locking fire department connection caps shall be deleted and
replaced as follows:
   912.4.1 Locking fire department connection caps. Locking fire department
connection caps approved by the fire department are required for all new
construction that have a water-based fire protection system where the
responding fire department carries approved key wrenches for removal. Existing
structures that have a water-based fire protection system shall be required
immediately after conducting the five (5) year obstruction and maintenance
testing, or if one (1) or more of the fire department caps are missing.
Section 1003 General Means of Egress shall be amended by addition of the
following section:
   1003.8 Location of Preschool through Second Grade Students. In Group E
occupancies, rooms normally occupied by preschool, kindergarten, or first grade
students shall not be located above or below the level of exit discharge. Rooms
normally occupied by second grade students shall not be located more than one
story above the level of exit discharge.
Section [BE] 1010.2.9 Panic and fire exit hardware shall be amended by addition
of the following section:
   1010.2.9 (a) Door hardware. All exterior doors deemed necessary by the fire
code official for emergency access shall have a keyed cylinder and handle for
emergency personnel to enter. These exterior doors should be numbered in a
sequential order starting with the main entrance (front office door/public
entrance). The main entrance should always be #1 with the cardinal direction
letter after. i.e. 1N, 7W. Subsequent doors will be numbered in sequential
order in a clockwise manner. The font must be a minimum six (6) inch in height
and contrast in color of the door. The inside of the door must also be labeled
with the corresponding identification two (2) inch in height and contrast in
color.
SECTION 1028 EXIT DISCHARGE shall be amended by addition of the following
section:
   [BE] 1028.6 Exit discharge pathways. Exit discharge pathways shall be paved
from all required exits of a building to a public way or parking lot.
Section 1203.1 General shall be amended by addition of the following section:
   1203.1.10 Shutdown of emergency and standby power systems. In addition to
the requirements of NFPA 10 for a remote manual stop, a keyed switch to shut
down the generator shall be located at the remote annunciator panel or fire
panel. The fire code official shall determine its location. If there is no
annunciator or fire alarm panel or the location of these panels is determined
to be inadequate for this shut down button, the fire code official shall
determine its location.
   Section 5003.3.1.4 Responsibility for cleanup shall be amended by addition
of the following words at the end of this section: "unless otherwise provided
by a 28E Agreement or another contract."
Section 5003.3.1 Unauthorized discharges shall be amended by addition of the
following section:
   5003.3.1.5 Fees for hazardous materials incident responses. Hazardous
materials incident responses will be billed at the following base rates:
HazMat Vehicle w/3 Technicians $450/hr.
Heavy Rescue w/3 Technicians   $350/hr.
Rescue Boat w/3 Personnel      $250/hr.
Aerial/Ladder Truck            $125/hr.
Engine/Pumper                  $100/hr.
Generator/Light Tower          $100/hr.
Pickup/Car w/1 personnel       $75/hr.
Command Officer                $75/hr.
Extra Personnel                $50/hr.
Consumables/Damaged Equipment  Replacement Costs
 
Section 5601.1 Scope shall be deleted and replaced as follows:
   5601.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the possession,
manufacture, storage, handling, sale and use of explosives, explosive materials
and small arms ammunition. The provisions of this chapter also govern the
manufacture of display and consumer fireworks. The sale, storage and use of
display fireworks and consumer fireworks shall meet the requirements of Iowa
Code sections 100.1, 100.19, 100.19A, 364.2 and 727.2. These Iowa Code sections
supersede other provisions of IFC Chapter 56 dealing with the sale, storage,
and use of display fireworks and consumer fireworks.
Section 5704.2.9.6.1 Locations where above-ground tanks are prohibited shall be
deleted and replaced as follows:
   Section 5704.2.9.6.1 Locations where above-ground tanks are prohibited.
Storage of Class I and Class II liquids in above-ground tanks outside of
buildings is prohibited in the entire city of Bettendorf, Iowa.
   Exceptions: Commercial and Industrial zones subject to all required zoning
controls, building and fire codes and approval by the community development
director and the fire code official.
Section 5706.2.4.4 Locations where above-ground tanks are prohibited shall be
deleted and replaced as follows:
   Section 5706.2.4.4 Locations where above-ground tanks are prohibited.
Storage of Class I and Class II liquids in above-ground tanks outside of
buildings is prohibited in the entire city of Bettendorf, Iowa.
   Exceptions: Commercial and Industrial zones subject to all required zoning
controls, building and fire codes and approval by the community development
director and the fire code official.
Section 5806.2 Limitations shall be deleted and replaced as follows:
   Section 5806.2 Limitations. Storage of flammable cryogenic fluids in
stationary containers outside of buildings is prohibited in the entire city of
Bettendorf, Iowa.
   Exception: Commercial and Industrial zones subject to al required zoning
controls, building and fire codes, and approval by the community development
director and the fire code official.
Section 6104.2 Maximum capacity within established limits shall be amended by
addition of the following statement:
   Section 6104.2 Maximum capacity within established limits. The storage of
liquified petroleum gas is prohibited in the entire city of Bettendorf, Iowa.
   Exceptions: Commercial and Industrial zones subject to all required zoning
controls, building and fire codes and approval by the community development
director and the fire code official.
(Ord. 30-17, 8-1-2017; amd. Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
CHAPTER 8
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-8-1:    Codes Adopted
10-8-2:    Effective Date Of Adoption; Impact On Buildings
10-8-3:    Amendments To The 2021 International Property Maintenance Code
10-8-1:   CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption. Pursuant to published notice and public hearing as required
by law, the 2021 International Property Maintenance Code is hereby adopted as
follows:
   B.   Official Copy. An official copy of the 2021 International Property
Maintenance Code is on file in the offices of the City Clerk and the Community
Development Department for public inspection, and copies thereof are for sale
to the public for the current retail price. (Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
10-8-2:   EFFECTIVE DATE OF ADOPTION; IMPACT ON BUILDINGS:
All existing residential and non-residential buildings shall be required to
comply with the Code in force at the time the inspection is performed, and the
City retains the right to prosecute owners of buildings for code violations
under those Codes, even if the Codes are amended or replaced by newer versions.
Remodeling or reconstruction of buildings shall comply with the Codes as
prescribed therein. (Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
10-8-3:   AMENDMENTS TO THE 2021 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
The following amendments, modifications, additions and deletions to the 2021
International Property Maintenance Code are hereby made:
   Section 101.1: "City of Bettendorf" is inserted as the [name of
jurisdiction.]
   Section 102.3: Remove "International Fuel Gas Code" and replace
International Plumbing Code with "Uniform Plumbing Code".
   Section 103: Replace Code Compliance Agency with "Community Development
Department".
   [Add Section as follows]
   Section 107.5 Application for Appeal. Any person directly affected by a
decision of the code official or a notice or order issued under this Code shall
have the right to appeal to the Board of Appeals, provided that a written
application for appeal is filed within 10 days after the day the decision,
notice, or order was served. An application for appeal shall be based on a
claim that the true intent of this Code or the rules legally adopted thereunder
have been incorrectly interpreted, the provision of this Code do not fully
apply, or the requirements of this Code are adequately satisfied by other
means.
   Section 302.4: "10 inches" is inserted as the [jurisdiction to insert height
in inches.]
   Section 303.2: In the first sentence replace 24 inches with "18 inches".
   Section 602.3: Delete portion of first sentence "supply heat during the
period from (date) to date)".
   Section 602.4: Delete portion of first sentence "during the period from
(date) to (date)".
((Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
CHAPTER 9
RENTAL HOUSING REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION
SECTION:
10-9-1: Title
10-9-2:    Purpose
10-9-3:    Definitions
10-9-4:    Exemptions
10-9-5:    Fees Established
10-9-6:    Registration
10-9-7:    Local Contact Representative
10-9-8:    Inspection Standards
10-9-9:    Inspection Frequency And Scheduling
10-9-10: Notice Of Inspection And Entry
10-9-11: Results Of Inspection
10-9-12: Penalties And Non-Exclusivity
10-9-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as "Residential Rental Housing Registration and
Inspection," and will be referred to herein as "this chapter."
(Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-9-2:PURPOSE:
In compliance with Chapter 364.17 of the Iowa Code, it is the purpose of this
chapter to require property owners, their agents, and others who lease Rental
Housing Units to meet their responsibilities with respect to proper maintenance
and property safety and to provide for premises safety and to provide for
inspection as a means of compelling compliance therewith of city codes. It
shall be the responsibility of the aforementioned property owners, their
agents, and so forth to be compliant with state of Iowa and federal codes. It
is not the purpose of this chapter to create any duty on the part of the city,
its offices, agents, or employees, owing to any individual member of the public
or to protect any particular or circumscribed class of persons. Specifically,
it is not the intent of this chapter to create any duty or liability by the
city, its officers, agents, or employees, to premises' occupants, owners,
tenants, or any other person. No person shall place reliance upon this chapter,
any inspections performed, or certificates issued pursuant to this chapter, as
indicating the safety of or quality of construction of any particular premises.
Neither this chapter nor inspections made pursuant thereto nor certificates
issued are intended to assume the duty of any person to adequately construct
and maintain a premises or provide a safe premises or to, in any way, indicate
a decrease in the risk associated with the use or occupancy of any premises. A
certification that a premises has been inspected pursuant to this chapter shall
not in any way constitute a warranty or guarantee of the safety or quality of
that premises. (Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-9-3:   DEFINITIONS: 
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: A sworn or non-sworn inspector, officer, or
investigator, who possesses specialized training in and whose primary duties
are the prevention, detection, investigation, and enforcement of violations of
laws regulating public nuisance, public health, safety, and welfare, public
works, business activities and consumer protection, building standards, land
use, or municipal affairs. common areas. The areas in a rental housing building
that are accessible to all occupants of the property, including, but not
limited to, lobbies, laundry rooms, recreation areas, common kitchens,
hallways, stairs, courtyards, light wells, garbage areas, boiler rooms, storage
rooms, basements, roof areas, or parking garages or areas.
DIRECTOR: The Director of the Community Development Department, or his or her
designee.
ENGAGE IN THE BUSINESS OF RENTAL HOUSING: Renting or offering to rent a Rental
Housing Unit.
OWNER: A person, persons, corporation, partnership, limited liability company,
or any other entity holding fee title to the subject real property.
RENTAL HOUSING UNIT OR UNIT: A single unit providing living facilities for one
or more persons that has permanent provisions for living, sleeping, and
sanitation and is rented or available for rent to tenants. (Ord. 01-25, 1-7-
2025)
10-9-4:   EXEMPTIONS:
All Rental Housing Units shall be subject to the requirements of this chapter,
except for the following:
   A.   Rental Housing Units for transient lodging, including hotels, motels,
inns, and tourist homes.
   B.   Rental Housing Units in a state licensed hospital, hospice, community
care facility, or nursing home; convent, monastery, or other facility occupied
exclusively by members of a religious order; on-campus fraternity or sorority
houses; or on-campus housing accommodations owned, operated, or managed by an
institution of higher education or secondary school for occupancy by its
students.
   C.   Rental Housing Units that have been newly-constructed, for a period of
four years from the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy by the City of
Bettendorf, must be registered but are not required to be inspected until the
fifth year.
   D.   Manufactured homes, commonly referred to as mobile homes, under the
authority of 42 USC Section 5403.
   E.   Properties actively subject to sale under a contract for sale between
the tenant and the owner recorded with the Scott County, Iowa Recorder's
Office. (Ord. 01-25, 1-7-2025)
10-9-5:   FEES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Registration Fee: An owner of any Rental Housing Unit subject to this
chapter shall pay a registration fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first
unit in a building wholly owned by the applicant and fifteen dollars ($15.00)
for each additional unit in the same building to finance the costs of
inspection and enforcement by the City of Bettendorf. This fee shall be paid
annually by January 1 of each year. If a building containing a Rental Housing
Unit has multiple owners, such as in the case of a townhome or condominium
building, each owner seeking to register a Rental Housing Unit with the city
shall pay a registration fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first Rental
Housing Unit they own within the building and fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each
additional Rental Housing Unit within the building.
   B.   Proration of Fees: Registration fees for new or newly-sold Rental
Housing Units may be prorated quarterly. If a Rental Housing Unit is sold, the
new owner shall register the unit within thirty (30) days of the sale.
   C.   Failure to Register: Any owner of any Rental Housing Unit found to have
let or rented a Rental Housing Unit without the required registration shall pay
double the registration fees noted herein for each calendar year the
unregistered rental occurred.
   D.   Re-scheduling Fee: An owner of a Rental Housing Unit shall pay a fee of
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per building for re-scheduling all inspections,
unless the rescheduling conforms to with Section 10-9-9C of this Chapter.
   E.   Re-inspection Fee: An owner of a Rental Housing Unit shall pay a fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00) per building for the re-inspection of any unit or units
within the building after the first re-inspection as part of the regularly-
scheduled inspection for that building.
   F.   Late Arrival and No-Show Fee: An owner of a Rental Housing Unit shall
pay a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per building if they or their local contact
representative do not arrive on site within fifteen (15) minutes after the
scheduled inspection time or if they or their local contact representative fail
to attend the inspection.
   G.   Out of Cycle Inspection Fee: A fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per
Rental Housing Unit will be charged to the owner, local contact representative,
or tenant based on the origin of the request. (Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
10-9-6:   REGISTRATION:
   A.   Registration Requirements: It shall be unlawful for any owner to engage
in the business of rental housing unless:
      1.    Each Rental Housing Unit is registered with the City of Bettendorf
and,
      2.   A copy of the registration is placed in a conspicuous location
within each building containing four (4) or more Rental Housing Units, and
      3.   The Rental Housing Unit(s) has passed a rental inspection within the
timeframe specified in this Chapter, and
      4.   A copy of the notice of compliance from the most recent inspection
is posted in a conspicuous location within each building containing four of
more Rental Housing Units.
   B.   Information Required: A Rental Housing Unit is registered with the City
of Bettendorf when the owner or local contact representative of the rental
property submits a completed registration form, made available by the City of
Bettendorf, and payment has been received. The following information must be
provided to the City for the unit(s) to be registered:
      1.   Description of the rental housing property, including, but not
limited to, the street address and Scott County Assessor's parcel number;
      2.   Name and current contact information for the owner of the rental
housing property;
      3.   Name and current contact information for the local contact
representative; and
      4.   Any other information reasonably required by the Director to carry
out the requirements of this Chapter. (Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
10-9-7:   LOCAL CONTACT REPRESENTATIVE:
   A.   Designation: Each owner of rental housing property shall designate a
local contact representative with full authority to act on behalf of the owner
for all purposes under this Chapter, including the acceptance of service of all
notices from the City of Bettendorf. The owner of the rental housing property
may act as the local contact representative.
   B.   Local Contact Representative: A local contact representative shall
establish and maintain a local telephone number and a residence or business
address within the jurisdiction of the City of Bettendorf. All official notices
served on the local contact representative shall be deemed to have been served
on the owner. (Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
10-9-8:   INSPECTION STANDARDS:
All properties subject to this Chapter shall be inspected for compliance with
City Code Title 10 Building Development and Title 11 Zoning Regulations and all
other applicable codes of the City. This includes, but is not limited to, the
International Property Maintenance Code as adopted by the City. (Ord. 01-2025,
1-7-2025)
10-9-9:   INSPECTION FREQUENCY AND SCHEDULING:
   A.   Frequency: The frequency of inspections shall be as follows:
      1.   All rental housing properties shall be inspected within ninety (90)
days of the initial registration and then at least once every four (4) years
thereafter.
      2.   Newly-constructed Rental Housing Units are not required to have a
rental inspection for a period of four (4) years from the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy by the City. This provision does not apply to existing
buildings which have been remodeled or to which modifications have been made.
      3.   Rental housing properties may be placed on an annual inspection
schedule if any of the following occur:
         a.   A Code Enforcement Officer or other City official has observed
violations on the property related to structural integrity; insect or rodent
infestation; pervasive damage or tampering with smoke or fire alarm systems;
blocked egress; unsanitary conditions.
         b.   The owner of the property owns or controls other properties found
to significantly threaten the life, health, or safety of residents or the
public.
   B.   Previously Registered Units: For units previously registered and
inspected in the past four (4) years, the Director or their designee shall
assign a date for inspections with a property owner or their local contact
representative. For all other properties, it is the responsibility of the owner
or their local contact representative to request an inspection. The manner for
scheduling the inspection may include email, written correspondence, or verbal
communication at the Director's discretion. The City shall provide the owner or
local contact representative at least fourteen (14) days' notice of the
inspection date and time.
   C.   Rescheduling: An owner or local contact representative may, without
fee, reschedule an inspection once by contacting the Community Development
Department at least seven (7) calendar days prior to the scheduled inspection
date. A rescheduled inspection must occur within fourteen (14) calendar days of
the originally assigned inspection date. Violation of this section shall result
in the imposition of a re-scheduling fee.
   D.   Out of Cycle Inspections: Any owner or tenant may request an inspection
be scheduled outside the normal cycle established in this Chapter. Such
requests are handled on an as available basis and are subject to fees
established herein. (Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
10-9-10:   NOTICE OF INSPECTION AND ENTRY:
   A.   Notification: The owner or local contact representative is responsible
for notifying all tenants of the inspection in accordance with the State of
Iowa Uniform Landlord and Tenant Law, Iowa Code Chapter 562A.
   B.   Tenant Consent: The owner or local contact representative is
responsible for obtaining the consent of the tenants for the Code Enforcement
Officer's entry to inspect the units. If a tenant does not consent to entry for
inspection, the City may seek an administrative warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction. An owner is not in violation of this section if a duly
notified tenant denies entry for inspection.
   C.   Common Areas: The owner or local contact representative shall provide
the Code Enforcement Officer with access to all common areas and vacant units
on the rental housing property. (Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
10-9-11:   RESULTS OF INSPECTION:
   A.   Written Inspection Report: The Code Enforcement Officer shall provide a
written report of inspection findings to the owner or local contact
representative within three (3) business days of the completion of the
inspection.
   B.   Emergency Life and Safety Issues: In cases where emergency life or
safety issues are found, the Code Enforcement Officer shall immediately notify
the owner or local contact representative and act to preserve life and safety
as authorized under City Code Title 10 Building Development, Title 11 Zoning
Regulations, and all other applicable codes of the City.
   C.   Letter of Compliance: The owner or local contact representative of
properties that are compliant with this Chapter and City Code Title 10 Building
Development, Title 11 Zoning Regulations, and all other applicable codes of the
City shall receive a written notice of compliance from the Code Enforcement
Officer within three (3) business days of the date from which the compliance
was documented. (Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
10-9-12:   PENALTIES AND NON-EXCLUSIVITY:
   A.   Municipal Infractions: Any person or entity who violates a provision of
this Chapter may be charged with a municipal infraction as provided in Section
1-4-2  of Bettendorf City Code.
   B.   Non-Exclusivity: The remedies provided in this Chapter shall be
cumulative and not exclusive of any other remedies available under federal,
state, or local laws. None of the inspection provisions in this Chapter shall
prohibit, condition, or otherwise limit any inspection conducted pursuant to
this code or other applicable law. (Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
CHAPTER 10
HOUSE MOVERS
SECTION:
10-10-1: House Mover Defined
10-10-2: Licensing Requirements; Fees
10-10-3: Bond And Insurance Required
10-10-4: Flagmen, Warning Devices
10-10-5: Utilities
10-10-1: HOUSE MOVER DEFINED:
Any person who undertakes to move a building or similar structure upon or
across any public right-of-way shall be deemed a house mover. (2008 Code § 7-
20; amd. Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
10-10-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; FEES:
   A.   Application For License; Required Information: Prior to moving a
structure upon or across any right-of-way, the house mover shall make
application and receive a license therefor. The application shall state the
location of the building, the future site for the building, and the route to be
used to transport. The application shall also contain a copy of the building
permit for the future site if located in Bettendorf. The route proposed must be
approved by the Chief of Police and Director of Public Works prior to the
license's being issued.
   B.   License Fee: The fee for such license shall be twenty six dollars fifty
cents ($26.50) for the first day and fifty three dollars ($53.00) for each
subsequent day.
   C.   Notice To Utilities: The house mover shall notify all utilities located
along the route, advising them if any temporary relocation will be necessary
while the building is being moved. (2008 Code § 7-21; amd. Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-
2025)
10-10-3: BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Bond: The applicant for a license required by this chapter shall post
with the City Clerk a penal bond in the sum of twenty thousand dollars
($20,000.00), with good and sufficient sureties approved by the City Attorney.
The bond shall guarantee the applicant's payment for any damage done to the
city or to public property in the course of moving the building or similar
structure.
   B.   Insurance: The applicant for a license required by this chapter shall
be insured in the sum of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) against
bodily injury and five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for property
damage for his, his agent's, or his employees' acts in the course of the moving
operations that result in personal injury and for two hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($250,000.00) property damage liability and further naming the city and
its officers and employees as additional insureds on said insurance policy.
(2008 Code § 7-22; amd. Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
10-10-4: FLAGMEN, WARNING DEVICES:
   A.   At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or public property, a licensee under this chapter
shall maintain flagmen at the closest intersections or other possible channels
of traffic to the sides, behind, and ahead of the building or structure.
   B.   At all times when the building or structure is at rest upon any street,
alley, sidewalk, or public property, the licensee shall maintain adequate
warning signs or flares at the intersections or channels of traffic to the
sides, behind, and ahead of the building or structure. (2008 Code § 7-23; amd.
Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
10-10-5: UTILITIES:
The house mover shall be responsible for the appropriate plugging or capping of
all utilities to the site from which the building or structure is to be
removed. Utilities shall include sewer laterals. (2008 Code § 7-24; amd. Ord.
01-2025, 1-7-2025)
CHAPTER 11
BUILDING NUMBERING
SECTION:
10-11-1: Numbering Required; Plan Adopted
10-11-2: Baselines
10-11-3: Assigning Of Numbers
10-11-4: Numbers Displayed
10-11-5: Specifications For Numbers
10-11-6: Failure To Comply; City To Number; Cost
10-11-1: NUMBERING REQUIRED; PLAN ADOPTED:
All lots, parts of lots, or other property abutting on any street shall be
numbered. The plan of numbering, as far as practicable, shall be the plan known
as the "Philadelphia Plan". (2008 Code § 27-137; amd. Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
10-11-2: BASELINES:
The Mississippi River shall constitute the baseline for numbering on streets
running north and south, and the west line of the city shall constitute the
baseline for numbering on streets running east and west. (2008 Code § 27-142;
amd. Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
10-11-3: ASSIGNING OF NUMBERS:
   A.   Community Development Department Staff to Assign: The Community
Development Department staff shall assign each building an appropriate number.
   B.   Use of Odd And Even Numbers: Even numbers shall be assigned to the
north and west sides of streets; odd numbers shall be assigned to the south and
east sides of streets. When a question arises as to the proper number to be
assigned to any lot or building, the Community Development Department staff
shall designate the number for the lot or building. (2008 Code §§ 27-141 and
27-143; amd. Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
10-11-4: NUMBERS DISPLAYED:
   A.   Number Facing Street: All buildings fronting on any street or alley
shall have conspicuously placed on such buildings the number prescribed
pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Visibility: If, due to the location of the building to be numbered,
vegetation, or any other reason, the number will not be easily visible from the
street, it shall be the duty of the property owner to erect a sign displaying
the building number so that it will be visible from the street. (2008 Code §
27-138; amd. Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
10-11-5: SPECIFICATIONS FOR NUMBERS:
   A.   Materials; Location: The number placed upon any building shall be metal
or wood, or other durable weather resistant material, or the number may be
painted. This number shall be located on the side of the building that faces
the street on which it is addressed. If, because of terrain, landscaping, or
other reason, this address would not be visible from the street, it may be
placed on an alternate location as permitted by Section
10-11-4  of this chapter. Alternate locations must be approved by the building
department.
   B.   Numbers Legible, Contrast with Background: Address numbers shall
contrast with their background. They must be easily recognizable numerals and
easily legible from the street.
   C.    Table Of Specifications: The following requirements shall apply to all
buildings erected on or after October 1, 2004. These requirements shall also
apply to buildings that did not previously have an address posted and buildings
where the address is no longer visible from the street due to trees or other
objects that obstruct the view. Address numbers shall have a minimum stroke
width of one half inch (0.5"). Height of each numeral shall comply with the
following chart:
 
 Distance from Building to Centerline of Street (in Size of Numerals Required
Feet)                                                (Height in Inches)
Up to 99                                             41
100 - 199                                            6
200 - 299                                            8
Each additional 100 feet                             Additional 2 inches
Note:
   1.   Exception: For one- and two-family residential buildings, a minimum
size of three and one-half inches (3 1/2) inches is permitted.
 
(2008 Code § 27-139; amd. Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
10-11-6: FAILURE TO COMPLY; CITY TO NUMBER; COST:
   A.   Notice to Comply; Numbering by City; Assessment of Cost: If the owner
or lessee of any building fails to place the number on the building or replace
the number when replacement is necessary, the City Council may cause a notice
to be personally served on the owner or lessee, or mailed by registered mail to
the owner's last known address, ordering him to place or replace the number. In
case of failure to comply with the notice within ten (10) days from date of
service, the Council shall cause the numbers to be affixed to the property and
assess the cost thereof against the property or premises numbered.
   B.   Payment of Bill; Assessed as Special Tax if Unpaid: The City Clerk
shall mail a bill for the costs to the owner or lessee of the property and, if
the bill is not paid within ten (10) days from the mailing of the bill, he
shall certify to the County Auditor the amounts assessed as a special tax
against the several properties to be collected as other special taxes. (2008
Code § 27-140; amd. Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
CHAPTER 12
SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-12-1: Code Adopted
10-12-2: Effective Date Of Adoption; Impact On Buildings
10-12-3: Amendments To The 2021 International Swimming Pool And Spa Code
10-12-4: Fees Established; Payment Prerequisite To Issuance Of Permit
10-12-1:   CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption. Pursuant to published notice and public hearing as required
by law, the 2021 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code and the related codes
as referenced, are hereby adopted in full except for such portions as may
hereinafter be deleted, modified, or amended, and all subsequent supplements to
the abovementioned international codes as published.
   B.   Copy on File. An official copy of the 2021 International Swimming Pool
and Spa Code and all referenced books are on file in the offices of the City
Clerk and the Community Development Department for public inspection, and
copies thereof are for sale at the cost to the public.
   C.   Conflicts; More Restrictive Requirements Apply: If any conflict exists
between the adopted International Code, Uniform Codes, National Codes, and
other City ordinances, the more restrictive code requirement applies. (Ord. 01-
2025, 1-7-2025)
10-12-2:   EFFECTIVE DATE OF ADOPTION; IMPACT ON BUILDINGS:
   A.   All swimming pools and spas shall be required to comply with the Code
in force at the time the swimming pool or spa permit was issued, and the City
retains the right to prosecute owners of swimming pools or spas for code
violations under those Codes, even if the Codes are amended or replaced by
newer versions.
   B.   Remodeling or reconstruction of swimming pools or spas shall be
compliant with the Codes as prescribed herein. (Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
10-12-3:   AMENDMENTS TO THE 2021 INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE:
   A.   The following amendments, modifications, additions, and deletions to
the 2021 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code are hereby made.
   Any reference to "International Plumbing Code" in this Code shall be
replaced with "Uniform Plumbing Code."
   Section 101.1: "City of Bettendorf" is inserted as the [name of
jurisdiction.]
   Section 103.1: "Community Development Department" is inserted as the [name
of department.]
   Section 112.1: Delete in its entirety and replace with R112.3 Qualifications
(from the 2021 International Residential Code)
   Section 113.4: Delete in its entirety and replace with 114.4 Violation
penalties (from the 2021 International Building Code)
   Section 305.1: Delete in its entirety.
   Section 305.4: Delete in its entirety.
(Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
10-12-4:   FEES ESTABLISHED; PAYMENT PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
Fees Imposed: See table in Section
10-3-4  (Building Fees) for permit fees for swimming pools and spas. Fee is
based on the estimated cost of the work. (Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
CHAPTER 13
ENERGY CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-13-1: Codes Adopted
10-13-2: Effective Date Of Adoption; Impact On Buildings
10-13-1:   CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: Pursuant to published notice and public hearing as required
by law, the 2009 International Energy Conservation Code and the related codes
as referenced, are hereby adopted in full except for such portions as may
hereinafter be deleted, modified, or amended, and all subsequent supplements to
the abovementioned international code as published.
   B.   Copy on File: An official copy of the 2009 International Energy
Conservation Code and all referenced books are on file in the offices of the
City Clerk and the Community Development Department for public inspection, and
copies thereof are for sale at the cost to the public.
   C.   Conflicts; More Restrictive Requirements Apply: If any conflict exists
between the adopted International Code, Uniform Codes, National Codes, and
other City ordinances, the more restrictive code requirement applies. (Ord. 01-
2025, 1-7-2025)
10-13-2:   EFFECTIVE DATE OF ADOPTION; IMPACT ON BUILDINGS:
   A.   All construction work subject to energy requirements shall be required
to be compliant with the Code in force at the time the building permit was
issued, and the City retains the right to prosecute owners of buildings for
code violations under that Code, even if the Code is amended or replaced by a
newer version.
   B.   Remodeling or reconstruction shall be compliant with the Code as
prescribed herein. (Ord. 01-2025, 1-7-2025)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
PREAMBLE
OVERVIEW OF ZONING APPROACH:   
Until 2017, Bettendorf, like most cities, used a Euclidean zoning ordinance
that primarily designated single-use areas, such as all-residential or all-
commercial zones. While this system helps separate incompatible uses, and is
relatively straightforward to administer, it has significant shortcomings. A
Euclidean ordinance can be inflexible - it encourages decentralized development
and is often unable to accommodate mixed-use development. In recent years,
planners have proposed and experimented with a number of alternatives to
Euclidean zoning, most of which focus more on building form and site design,
and less on specific uses.
With the adoption of "Premiering Bettendorf" in 2017 and the subsequent update
to its zoning ordinance in 2017, Bettendorf moved to hybrid land use
development that allowed for both Euclidean and form-based zoning.
As mandated by Iowa Code Section 414.3, Bettendorf's adopted comprehensive
plan, Premiering Bettendorf, provides guidance for the regulation of land use
through zoning. Specifically, the plan's future land use map indicates
generalized land uses for all areas, developed or undeveloped, within the city
limits. Premiering Bettendorf - A Comprehensive Plan for 2045 establishes an
updated Future Land Use Map for the city and future growth areas. Property
throughout Bettendorf's existing and future boundary are given different Future
Land Use designations. The designations are categorized by desired primary uses
for existing and future developments, as shown in the Future Land Use Map. Each
category is compatible with varying Euclidean Zoning Districts or mixed-used
Development Character Area (DCA) Zoning Districts. The Future Land Use/Zoning
Compatibility Table is one prerequisite for reviewing zoning map amendments, as
outlined in section
11-15-13: AMENDMENTS.
Future Land Use/Zoning Compatibility Table
                            Compliant Zoning Districts
Future Land Use Designation Development Character Area  Traditional (Euclidean)
                            (DCA)
Future Land Use/Zoning Compatibility Table
Future Land Use          Compliant Zoning Districts
Designation              Development Character Area Traditional (Euclidean)
                         (DCA)
NL, Neighborhood Light   ULI                        A-2, R-1, R-2, R-3, C-1
MT, Mixed Transitional   UMI                        R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, C-1, C-
                                                    2
UA, Urban Activity       UHI                        R-3, R-4, R-5, C-1, C-2, C-
                                                    3, I-1
CS, Conservation         ULI, UMI (*)               R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5, C-
Subdivision                                         1 (*)
NC, Neighborhood         N/A                        C-1
Commercial
SC, Service Commercial   N/A                        C-1, C-2, R-3, R-4
CC, Community Commercial N/A                        C-1, C-2, C-3, R-5
I, Industrial            N/A                        I-1, I-2, I-3
BP, Business Park        N/A                        C-3, C-6, C-7, I-1
P, Civic & Public        N/A                        ALL
DR, Development Reserve  N/A                        A-1, A-2
GW, Greenway             N/A                        ALL**
PO, Parks & Open Space   N/A                        ALL
** Not intended for development.
* Conservation Subdivision is intended to cluster development and preserve open
space.
 
(Ord. 18-24, 7-16-2024)
HOW TO USE THE ZONING CODE: 
As mandated by Iowa Code Section 414.3, Bettendorf's adopted comprehensive
plan, Premiering Bettendorf, provides guidance for the regulation of land use
through zoning. Specifically, the plan's future land use map (Figure 1.4)
indicates generalized land uses for all areas, developed or undeveloped, within
the city limits. The generalized land use categories include the DCAs described
above. The purpose, permitted uses, intensity, and form of each DCA is
established in the comprehensive plan, and compatibility issues are identified.
The comprehensive plan also describes the components of mixed-use neighborhoods
and how the DCAs can be used to encourage this approach to development.
Comprehensive plan Figure 1.5, Commercial Areas, identifies existing and
emerging commercial and employment nodes in the city. These commercial areas
are also shown on the future land use map as either community commercial or
neighborhood commercial areas. For the undeveloped growth areas of Bettendorf,
these commercial nodes will be the "centers" of future mixed-use neighborhoods.
There are two areas of the community where the land use map indicates
application of DCA designation. The DCA designation as a zoning category will
largely apply to undeveloped growth areas. The DCA designation may also be used
in established areas where redevelopment is likely to occur or the
redevelopment area is large enough to encourage a planned mixed-use development
that emphasizes urban character and pedestrian scale. These areas will employ
the procedural processes and review for compliance with the comprehensive plan
and the zoning ordinance that are identified for DCA areas in this ordinance.
The Bettendorf zoning map also identifies areas where traditional, non-DCA
zoning districts are applied. Virtually all of existing developed Bettendorf is
zoned with traditional zoning districts, and the new zoning code has not
significantly altered the previous code's zoning district regulations. For
these traditionally-zoned areas, sections of the zoning code identified as
"applicable to all" or "non-DCA zoning district" are applicable.
However, aspects of the DCA review process will also help guide the
comprehensive plan compliance review of development and rezoning applications
in traditional zoning districts within the established city. This review is
based on three very important issues:
o   Compliance with the land use plan. For comprehensive plan compliance, the
proposed zoning category should be one of those included within the group of
districts included within the applicable comprehensive plan land use category,
including DCA's.
o   Compliance with locational standards. This addresses where the project is
located. The ordinance includes guidance for the location of different uses
such as types of streets, infrastructure service, and scale and type of
surrounding development and uses.
o   Compliance with transitional standards. This considers how the application
addresses boundaries with other development. If uses are different, the
ordinance provides standards that reduce land use, scale, and operating
conflicts.
Figure 1 on the following page is a simplified chart describing the DCA and
traditional zoning district processes for determining whether a development
project meets the requirements of the zoning ordinance. Chapter 15,
Administration and Enforcement, provides more details on both of these
processes.
Figure 1. Finding of Compliance with Zoning Ordinance Requirements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6d90355c3edd99c1b60b73fa8fb1172995fa44e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3355.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Short Title
11-1-2:    Jurisdiction
11-1-3:    Interpretation
11-1-4:    Purpose
11-1-5:    Consistency With Comprehensive Development Plan
11-1-6:    Required Conformance
11-1-7:    Conflicting Laws
11-1-8:    Existing Violations
11-1-9:    Prior Building Permits
11-1-10: Private Easements, Covenants Or Agreements
11-1-11: Relief From Other Provisions
11-1-12: Severability
11-1-13: Identification Of Terms
11-1-14: Publication
11-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title, and ordinances supplemental or amendatory thereto, shall be known,
and may be cited hereafter as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF BETTENDORF, IOWA - 1959.
(Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-1-2: JURISDICTION:
The provisions of this title shall be applicable to all property within the
corporate limits of the city of Bettendorf, with the exception of those
properties owned or acquired by municipal, county, or state government for the
advancement of government projects or purposes. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety,
comfort, morals, convenience, and general welfare. The Bettendorf city planning
and zoning commission has given consideration to the future probable use of
land in the territory affected by this title, and has prepared a comprehensive
development plan showing the future development of this area which has served
as a guide in the preparation of this title. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-1-4: PURPOSE:
The purposes of the zoning ordinance of the city of Bettendorf is to:
   A.   Serve the public health, safety, and general welfare of the city and
its jurisdiction.
   B.   Classify property in a manner that reflects its suitability for
specific uses.
   C.   Provide for sound, attractive development within the city and its
jurisdiction.
   D.   Encourage compatibility of adjacent land uses.
   E.   Protect environmentally sensitive areas.
   F.   Provide for flexibility in land use regulations to accommodate new
forms of development, including mixed-use projects.
   G.   Further the objectives of the comprehensive development plan of the
city of Bettendorf. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-1-5: CONSISTENCY WITH COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
The city of Bettendorf intends that this zoning title and any amendments to it
shall be consistent with the city's comprehensive development plan. It is the
city's intent to amend this title whenever such action is deemed necessary to
keep regulatory provisions in conformance with the comprehensive development
plan. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-1-6: REQUIRED CONFORMANCE:
Except as hereinafter provided, no building or part thereof shall be erected,
extended, converted, moved, rebuilt, structurally altered or used, and no land
shall be used except in conformity with all the regulations herein prescribed
for the district in which such building or land may be situated and until a
building permit has been issued as provided herein. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-1-7: CONFLICTING LAWS:
Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this title upon the:
   A.   Use of land or buildings;
   B.   Bulk of buildings;
   C.   Floor area requirements;
   D.   Lot area requirements; and
   E.   Yard requirements are either more restrictive or less restrictive than
comparable conditions imposed by any other provision of this title or of any
other law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of any kind, the
regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher standards or
requirements shall govern. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-1-8: EXISTING VIOLATIONS: 
No building, structure, or use, not lawfully existing at the time of the
effective date hereof, shall become or be made lawful solely by reason of the
adoption of this title and to the extent that, and in any manner that said
unlawful building, structure, or use is in conflict with the requirements of
this title, said building, structure, or use remains unlawful hereunder. (Ord.
35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-1-9: PRIOR BUILDING PERMITS:
If a building permit was granted before the adoption of this title, nothing
contained herein shall require any change in the plans, construction, or
designated use of any building or part thereof. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-1-10:   PRIVATE EASEMENTS, COVENANTS OR AGREEMENTS:
   A.   Intent: It is not intended by this title to interfere with, abrogate or
annul any easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties, except
that, where this title imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings
or land, or upon the height of buildings, or requires larger open spaces or
greater lot area per family than are required or imposed by such easements,
covenants, or agreements between parties, the provisions of this title shall
control.
   B.   Prior Ordinances: The provisions of this title shall control and
supersede the provisions of any ordinances, rules, or regulations previously
adopted relating to the use of buildings and premises in all matters which are
provided for in this title, whether specifically or by implication, except for
prior ordinances which specify a particular dimension for a front yard or which
authorize the location and construction of a public utility installation, which
prior ordinances shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-
2017)
11-1-11: RELIEF FROM OTHER PROVISIONS:
Nothing in these provisions shall relieve any property owner or user from
satisfying any condition or requirement associated with a previous approval,
special permit, variance, development permit, or other permit issued under any
local, state, or federal ordinance or statute. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-1-12: SEVERABILITY:
Should any section or provision of this title be declared, by a court of
competent jurisdiction, to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the title as a whole, or any portion thereof, other than the
portion so declared to be invalid. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-1-13: IDENTIFICATION OF TERMS:
Wherever the word "city" appears in this title, it shall be deemed to refer to
the city of Bettendorf, Iowa; the word "council" and the words "governmental
authority" refer to the common council of the city; the word "commission"
refers to the city planning and zoning commission; the word "board" refers to
the board of adjustment; the word "district" refers to a section of the city
for which uniform regulations governing the use, height, area, size, and
intensity of use of buildings and land, and open spaces about buildings, are
herein established; the words "zone map" refer to a map entitled "Bettendorf,
Iowa, Zone Map", dated 1971, and any amendments thereto; the words "official
city plan" refer to the comprehensive plan, or any of its parts, for the
development of the city, prepared by the commission and adopted in accordance
with the planning statutes of the state of Iowa. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-1-14: PUBLICATION:
This title shall be published in book or pamphlet form and shall, together with
the maps being a part hereof, be filed with the city clerk of the city of
Bettendorf, Iowa. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
CHAPTER 2
USE TYPES
SECTION:
11-2-1: Purpose
11-2-2:    Determinations
11-2-3:    Agricultural Use Types
11-2-4:    Residential Use Types
11-2-5:    Civic Use Types
11-2-6:    Office Use Types
11-2-7:    Commercial Use Types
11-2-8:    Parking Use Types
11-2-9:    Industrial Use Types
11-2-10: Transportation Use Types
11-2-11: Miscellaneous Type Uses
11-2-1: PURPOSE:
Chapter 2 of this title shall be known as the use types. The purpose of the use
types is to establish a classification system for land uses and a consistent
set of terms defining uses permitted or conditionally permitted within various
zoning districts. The use types section also provides a procedure for
determining the applicable use type of any activity not clearly within any
defined use type. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-2-2: DETERMINATIONS:
    A.   Classification of Uses:
      1.   In the event of any question as to the appropriate use types of any
existing or proposed use or activity, the zoning administrator of the city of
Bettendorf shall have the authority to determine the appropriate use type. A
determination of the zoning administrator may be appealed to the board of
adjustment. In making such determinations, the zoning administrator and board
of adjustment shall consider such characteristics or specific requirements of
the use in common with those included as examples of use types. Those examples,
when included in use type descriptions, are intended to be illustrative, as
opposed to exclusive lists.
      2.   For proposed mixed-use developments where use square footages are
not specified, requirements based on area of use shall be determined applying
the use generating the highest requirements to the entire development.
   B.   Records: The zoning administrator shall make all such determinations of
appropriate use types in writing. The record of the determination shall contain
a report explaining the reasons for the determination. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-2-3: AGRICULTURAL USE TYPES:
Agricultural use types include the planting, cultivating, harvesting, and
storage of grains, hay, or plants commonly grown in the city of Bettendorf or
Scott County, or the raising and feeding of livestock or poultry.
    A.   Horticulture: The growing of horticultural and floricultural
specialties, such as flowers, shrubs, or trees, intended for ornamental or
landscaping purposes. This definition may include accessory retail sales under
certain conditions. Typical uses include wholesale plant nurseries and
greenhouses.
   B.   Crop Production: The raising and harvesting of tree crops, row crops,
or field crops on an agricultural or commercial basis. This definition may
include accessory retail sales under certain conditions.
   C.   Animal Production: The raising of animals or production of animal
products, such as eggs or dairy products on an agricultural or commercial basis
on a site which is also used for crop production or where grazing of natural
vegetation is the major feed source, or the raising of animals for recreational
or educational use. Typical uses include grazing, ranching, free ranch dairy
farming, and poultry farming.
   D.   Livestock Sales: The use of a site for the temporary confinement and
exchange or sale of livestock. Typical uses include sales barns. (Ord. 35-17,
10-17-2017)
11-2-4: RESIDENTIAL USE TYPES:
Residential use types include uses providing wholly non-transient, long-term
rental living accommodations. They exclude institutional living arrangements
providing 24-hour skilled nursing or medical care, forced residence, or
therapeutic settings.
   A.   Single-Family Residential: The use of a site for one dwelling unit,
occupied by one family. Mobile-home units, as defined by this section, are not
a single-family residential use type.
      1.   Single-Family Residential (Detached): A single-family residential
use in which one dwelling unit is located on a single lot, with no physical or
structural connection to any other dwelling unit.
      2.   Single-Family Residential (Attached): A single-family residential
use in which one dwelling unit is located on a single lot and is attached by a
common vertical wall to only one other adjacent dwelling unit on another single
lot.
   B.   Duplex Residential: The use of a legally-described lot for two (2)
dwelling units, each occupied by one family within a single building, excluding
manufactured or mobile home units, but including modular housing units.
   C.   Townhouse Residential: The use of a site for three (3) or more attached
dwelling units, each occupied by one family and separated by vertical side
walls extending from foundation through roof without openings. Each townhouse
unit must have at least two (2) exposed exterior walls.
   D.   Multiple-Family Residential: A building with three (3) or more dwelling
units. Units may be individually owned or rented for not fewer than thirty (30)
days.
    E.   Downtown Residential: The use of upper levels above street level of a
building within the central business district of the city of Bettendorf for
single- or multiple-family residential uses.
   F.   Live/Work Dwelling: A dwelling unit used for both residential purposes
and any nonresidential use permitted in the zoning district in which the unit
is located, provided that not more than two (2) people who do not reside in the
unit are employed on the premises.
   G.   Group Residential: The use of a site for the residence of more than
three (3) unrelated persons, not otherwise defined as a family, in which
occupants are accommodated in rooms not defined as dwelling units. Group
residential uses are limited to facilities that are officially recognized or
operated by a college or university, government agency, or nonprofit
organization. Typical uses include fraternity or sorority houses and
dormitories not incorporated into a college and university use type.
   H.   Boarding House: The use of a site for the residence of more than four
(4) unrelated persons, not otherwise defined as a family, in which occupants
are accommodated in rooms not defined as dwelling units.
   I.   Mobile Home Park: Use of a site under single ownership for one or more
mobile home units. Generally, the land on which mobile homes are placed in a
mobile home park is leased from the owner of the facility.
   J.   Retirement Residence: A building or group of buildings which provide
residential facilities, provided that seventy five percent (75%) of the
residents are at least sixty (60) years of age, or households headed by a
householder of at least sixty (60) years of age. A retirement residence may
provide a range of residential building types and may also provide support
services to residents, including, but not limited to, food service, general
health supervision, medication services, housekeeping services, personal
services, recreation facilities, and transportation services. The retirement
residence may accommodate food preparation in independent units or meal service
in one or more common areas. Retirement residences may include additional
health care supervision, rehabilitation services or nursing care. (Ord. 35-17,
10-17-2017)
11-2-5: CIVIC USE TYPES:
Civic use types include the performance of utility, educational, recreational,
cultural, medical, protective, governmental, and other uses that are strongly
vested with social importance.
   A.   Administration: Governmental offices providing administrative,
clerical, or public contact services that deal directly with the citizen,
together with incidental storage and maintenance of necessary vehicles. Typical
uses include federal, state, county, and city offices.
   B.   Cemetery: Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead
and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including columbariums, crematoria,
mausoleums, and mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and within the
boundary of such cemetery.
   C.   Clubs: Uses providing meeting, recreational, or social facilities for a
private, nonprofit, or noncommercial association, primarily for use by members
and guests.
      1.   Clubs (Recreational): Clubs that provide indoor and/or outdoor
athletic facilities, with or without social or meeting facilities. Typical uses
include country clubs, private or nonprofit community or recreation centers,
and private golf courses and driving ranges.
      2.   Clubs (Social): Clubs that provide primarily social or meeting
facilities. Typical uses include private social clubs and fraternal
organizations.
   D.   College and University Facilities: An educational institution of higher
learning that offers a course of study designed to culminate in the issuance of
a degree certified by a generallyrecognized accrediting organization.
   E.   Convalescent Services: A use providing bed care and inpatient services
for persons requiring regular medical attention, but excluding a facility
providing surgical or emergency medical services, and excluding a facility
providing care for alcoholism, drug addiction, mental disease, or communicable
disease. Typical uses include nursing homes.
   F.   Cultural Services: A library, museum, or similar registered nonprofit
organizational use displaying, preserving, and exhibiting objects of community
and cultural interest in one or more of the arts and sciences.
   G.   Day Care Services (Limited): This use type includes all classifications
of day care facilities regulated by the state of Iowa that operate providing
care for five (5) or fewer persons. This term includes nursery schools,
preschools, day care centers for children or adults, and similar uses, but
excludes public and private primary and secondary educational facilities.
   H.   Day Care Services (General): This use type includes all classifications
of day care facilities regulated by the state of Iowa that operate providing
care for six (6) or more persons. This term includes nursery schools,
preschools, day care centers for children or adults, and similar uses, but
excludes public and private primary and secondary educational facilities.
   I.   Detention Facilities: A publicly-operated or contracted use providing
housing and care for individuals legally confined, designed to isolate those
individuals from the community.
   J.   Elder Group Home:
      1.   A single-family residence that is operated by a person who is
providing room, board, and personal care and may provide health-related
services to three through five (3 - 5) elders who are not related to the person
providing the service within the third degree of consanguinity or affinity, and
which is staffed by an on-site manager twenty four (24) hours per day, seven
(7) days per week.
      2.   Cities are required by Iowa Code to treat elder group homes as
permitted uses in all residential districts, including all single-family
residential districts. (Iowa Code 231.B.1(4))
   K.   Emergency Residential Services: A facility or use of a building to
provide a protective sanctuary for victims of crime or abuse, including
emergency housing during crisis intervention for victims of rape, abuse, or
physical beatings.
   L.   Family Home: A community-based residential home which is licensed as a
residential care facility under Iowa Code Chapter l35C or as a child foster
care facility under Chapter 237 to provide room and board, personal care,
habilitation services, and supervision in a family environment exclusively for
not more than eight (8) persons with a developmental disability or brain injury
and any necessary support personnel. However, family home does not mean an
individual foster family home licensed under Chapter 237. Cities are required
by Iowa Code to treat family homes as permitted uses in all residential
districts, including all single-family residential districts. (Iowa Code
414.22)
   M.   Homes For Persons With Physical Disabilities: As provided for in Iowa
Code Chapter 504C.1, individuals with physical disabilities may form nonprofit
corporations pursuant to Chapter 504 for the sole purpose of establishing homes
for persons with disabilities which are intended to serve two to five (2 - 5)
residents who are members of the nonprofit corporation. Cities are required by
Iowa Code to treat homes for persons with physical disabilities no more
restrictively than family homes, that is, as permitted uses in all residential
districts, including all single-family residential districts.
   N.   Guidance Services: A use providing counseling, guidance, recuperative,
or similar services to persons requiring rehabilitation assistance as a result
of mental illness, alcoholism, detention, drug addiction, or similar condition
on a daytime care basis.
   O.   Health Care: A facility providing medical, psychiatric, or surgical
service for sick or injured persons exclusively on an outpatient basis
including emergency treatment, diagnostic services, training, administration
and services to outpatients, employees, or visitors.
   P.   Hospital: A facility providing medical, psychiatric, or surgical
service for sick or injured persons primarily on an inpatient basis, including
emergency treatment, diagnostic services, training, administration, and
services to patients, employees, or visitors.
   Q.   Maintenance Facilities: A public facility supporting maintenance,
repair, vehicular or equipment servicing, material storage, and similar
activities, including street or sewer yards, equipment service centers, and
similar uses having characteristics of commercial services or contracting or
industrial activities.
   R.   Park And Recreation Services: Publicly-owned and operated parks,
playgrounds, and recreation facilities, including publicly-owned community
centers and open spaces.
   S.   Postal Facilities: Postal services, including post offices, bulk-mail
processing, or sorting centers operated by the United States Postal Service.
   T.   Primary Educational Facilities: A public, private, or parochial school
offering instruction at the elementary school level in the branches of learning
study required to be taught in schools within the state of Iowa.
   U.   Public Assembly: Facilities owned and operated by a public agency,
charitable nonprofit, or private organization accommodating major public
assembly for recreation, sports, amusement, or entertainment purposes. Typical
uses include civic or community auditoriums, sports stadiums and arenas,
convention facilities, fairgrounds, incidental sales, and exhibition
facilities.
   V.   Religious Assembly: A use located in a permanent building and providing
regular organized religious worship and religious education incidental thereto
(excluding private primary or private secondary educational facilities,
community recreational facilities, day care facilities, and incidental parking
facilities). A property tax exemption obtained pursuant to Property Tax Code of
the state of Iowa shall constitute prima facie evidence of religious assembly
use.
   W.   Safety Services: Facilities for conduct of public safety and emergency
services including police and fire protection services and emergency medical
and ambulance services.
   X.   Secondary Educational Facilities: A public, private, or parochial
school offering instruction at the junior high or high school level in the
branches of learning and study required to be taught in the schools of the
state of Iowa.
   Y.   Utilities: Any above-ground structures or facilities, other than lines,
poles, and other incidental facilities, used for the production, generation,
transmission, delivery, collection, or storage of water, sewage, electricity,
gas, oil, energy media, communications, electronic or electromagnetic signals,
or other services which are precedent to development and/or use of land. (Ord.
35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-2-6: OFFICE USE TYPES:
Office use types include uses providing for administration, professional
services, and allied activities. These uses often invite public clientele but
are more limited in external effects than commercial uses.
   A.   General Offices: Use of a site for business, professional, or
administrative offices who may invite clients from both local and regional
areas. Typical uses include real estate, insurance, management, travel, or
other business offices; organization and association offices; or professional
offices.
   B.   Financial Services: Provision of financial and banking services to
consumers or clients. Walk-in and drive-in services to consumers are provided
on site. Typical uses include banks, savings and loan associations, credit
unions, savings banks, and loan companies. An ATM (Automatic Teller Machine)
that is not accompanied on-site by an office of its primary financial
institution is considered within the personal services use type.
   C.   Medical Offices: Use of a site for facilities which provide diagnoses
and outpatient care on a routine basis, but which does not provide prolonged,
in-house medical or surgical care. Medical offices are operated by doctors,
dentists, or similar medical practitioners licensed for practice in the state
of Iowa. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-2-7: COMMERCIAL USE TYPES:
Commercial uses include the sale, rental, service, and distribution of goods,
and the provision of services other than those classified under other use
types.
   A.   Adult Entertainment Businesses: Any business activity that offers the
opportunity to view specified sexual activities or view and touch specified
anatomical areas in a manner that lacks serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value. This category includes the sale or viewing of visual or
print materials that meet these criteria if the sale of such material
constitutes more than twenty percent (20%) of the sales or retail floor area of
the establishment. For the purposes of this definition, specified anatomical
areas include the following if less than opaquely covered: human genitals, the
pubic region, pubic hair, or the female breast below a point immediately above
the top of the areola. Specified sexual activities include any of the following
conditions:
      1.    Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
      2.   Acts or representations of acts of human masturbation, sexual
intercourse with humans or animals, oral sex, or flagellation.
      3.   Fondling or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock, or female breast.
      4.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any activities
set forth in Items 1 through 3 above.
Typical uses include retail services or stores which are distinguished by an
emphasis on activities or materials that emphasize primarily sexual content in
their inventory and marketing practices, businesses which offer live
performances characterized by exposure of specified anatomical areas, and adult
theaters. Businesses may be classified as adult entertainment businesses
without regard to service of alcoholic beverages.
   B.   Agricultural Sales And Service: Establishments or places of business
engaged in sale from the premises of feed, grain, fertilizers, farm equipment,
pesticides and similar goods or in the provision of agriculturally related
services with incidental storage on lots other than where the service is
rendered. Typical uses include nurseries, hay, farm implement dealerships, feed
and grain stores, and tree service firms.
   C.   Automotive And Equipment Services: Establishments or places of business
primarily engaged in sale and/or service of automobiles, trucks, or heavy
equipment. The following are considered automotive and equipment use types:
      1.   Automobile Auction Lots: Sale of motor vehicles through a process of
periodic auctions or bid procedures. Automobile auction lots usually include
large on-site storage areas of motor vehicles and lack showrooms, auto repair
facilities, and other structures and facilities that are typical of new car
dealerships.
      2.   Automotive Rental And Sales: Sale or rental of automobiles,
noncommercial trucks, motorcycles, motor homes, recreational vehicles or boats,
including incidental storage, maintenance, and servicing. Typical uses include
new and used car dealerships, motorcycle dealerships, and boat, trailer, and
recreational vehicle dealerships.
      3.   Auto Services: Provision of fuel, lubricants, parts and accessories,
and incidental services to motor vehicles, and washing and cleaning and/or
repair of automobiles, noncommercial trucks, motorcycles, motor homes,
recreational vehicles, or boats, including the sale, installation, and
servicing of equipment and parts. Typical uses include service stations, car
washes, muffler shops, auto repair garages, tire sales and installation, wheel
and brake shops, and similar repair and service activities but exclude
dismantling, salvage, or body and fender repair services. No vehicle may be
stored more than thirty (30) days. Strictly auto parts sales facilities (no
repair services) are included under retail sales.
      4.   Body Repair: Repair, painting, or refinishing of the body, fender,
or frame of automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, motor homes, recreational
vehicles, boats, tractors, construction equipment, agricultural implements, and
similar vehicles or equipment. Typical uses include body and fender shops,
painting shops, and other similar repair or refinishing garages.
      5.   Equipment Rental And Sales: Sale or rental of trucks, tractors,
construction equipment, agricultural implements, mobile homes, and similar
heavy equipment, including incidental storage, maintenance, and servicing.
Typical uses include truck dealerships, construction equipment dealerships, and
mobile home sales establishments.
      6.   Equipment Repair Services: Repair of trucks, tractors, construction
equipment, agricultural implements, and similar heavy equipment. Typical uses
include truck repair garages, tractor and farm implement repair services, and
machine shops, but exclude dismantling, salvage, or body and fender repair
services.
   D.   Bars: A use engaged in the preparation and retail sale of alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises, including taverns, bars, cocktail
lounges, and similar uses other than a restaurant as that term is defined in
this section.
   E.   Bed And Breakfast/Short-Term Rental: All lodging services, not
classified as "lodging," that provide overnight or short-term accommodations to
guests or visitors, whether or not the service includes provision of breakfast.
Bed and breakfasts are usually located in large residential structures that
have been adapted for this use. For the purpose of this definition, bed and
breakfasts are always owned and operated by the resident owner of the
structure, and include no more than four (4) units. Also, food is served only
to overnight guests.
   F.   Business Support Services: Establishments or places of business
primarily engaged in the sale, rental, or repair of equipment, supplies, and
materials, or the provision of services used by office, professional, and
service establishments to the firms themselves, but excluding automotive,
construction, and farm equipment. Typical uses include office equipment and
supply firms, small business machine repair shops, or hotel equipment and
supply firms, messenger and delivery services, custodial or maintenance
services, and convenience printing and copying.
   G.   Business Or Trade Schools: A use providing education or training in
business, commerce, language, or other similar activity or occupational
pursuit, and not otherwise defined as a home occupation, college or university,
or public or private educational facility.
   H.   Campground: Facilities providing camping or parking areas and
incidental services for travelers in recreational vehicles or tents, which
accommodate each guest or visitor for no more than fourteen (14) consecutive
days during any one month period.
   I.   Commercial Recreation (Controlled Impact): Private businesses, or other
organizations which may or may not be commercial by structure or by nature,
which are primarily engaged in the provision or sponsorship of sports,
entertainment, or recreation for participants or spectators. Controlled-impact
commercial recreation uses typically take place entirely within enclosed
buildings or, when outdoors, have limited effects related to lighting, hours of
operation, or noise. Typical uses include theaters, private dance halls,
billiard or bowling centers, game arcades, indoor skating facilities, miniature
golf courses, and private golf courses.
   J.   Commercial Recreation (High Impact): Private businesses, or other
organizations which may or may not be commercial by structure or by nature,
which are primarily engaged in the provision or sponsorship of sports,
entertainment, or recreation for participants or spectators. High-impact
commercial recreation uses are typically located outdoors and have operating
effects caused by lighting, noise, traffic, or hours of operation that create
substantial environmental impacts. Typical uses include shooting ranges,
lighted driving ranges, go-kart tracks, amusement parks, race tracks, and
private baseball complexes.
   K.   Communications Services: Establishments primarily engaged in the
provision of broadcasting and other information relay services accomplished
through the use of electronic and telephonic mechanisms, but excludes those
classified as utilities. Typical uses include television studios,
telecommunication service centers, telegraph service offices, or film and sound
recording facilities. Broadcast and communications towers, and their minor
ancillary ground structures, are classified as "miscellaneous use types." 
   L.   Construction Sales And Services: Establishments or places of business
primarily engaged in the retail or wholesale sale, from the premises, of
materials used in the construction of buildings or other structures other than
retail sale of paint, fixtures, and hardware. This use type excludes those uses
classified under automotive and equipment services. Typical uses include
building materials sales or tool and equipment rental or sales.
   M.   Consumer Services: Establishments that provide services, primarily to
individuals and households, but excluding automotive use types. Typical uses
include automated banking machines, appliance repair shops, watch or jewelry
repair shops, hardware stores, or musical instrument repair shops.
   N.   Convenience Storage/Mini-Storage: Storage services primarily for
personal effects and household goods within enclosed storage areas having
individual access but excluding use of such areas as workshops, hobby shops,
manufacturing, or commercial activity. Typical uses include mini-warehousing.
   O.   Food Sales: Establishments or places of business primarily engaged in
the retail sale of food or household products for home consumption. Food sales
establishments may include the sale of non-food items. Typical uses include
groceries, delicatessens, meat markets, retail bakeries, and candy shops.
      1.   Convenience Food Sales, Limited Gas Sales: Establishments occupying
facilities of less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet, and characterized by
sales of specialty foods or a limited variety of general items, and the sales
of fuel for motor vehicles. In this category, the design of the site permits no
more than eight (8) vehicles to be fueled at a time.
      2.   Convenience Food Sales, Unlimited Gas Sales: Establishments
occupying facilities of less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet, and
characterized by sales of specialty foods or a limited variety of general
items, and the sales of fuel for motor vehicles. In this category, there is no
limit to the number of vehicles that can be fueled at a time.
      3.   Limited Food Sales: Establishments occupying facilities of less than
ten thousand (10,000) square feet, and characterized by sales of specialty
foods or a limited variety of general items, but excluding the accessory sale
of fuel for motor vehicles. Typical uses include delicatessens, meat markets,
retail bakeries, candy shops, and small grocery stores.
      4.   General Food Sales: Establishments selling a wide variety of food
commodities and related items, using facilities larger than ten thousand
(10,000) square feet. Typical uses include grocery stores and locker plants
with or without gas pumps.
   P.   Funeral Services: Establishments engaged in undertaking services such
as preparing the human dead for burial and arranging and managing funerals.
Typical uses include funeral homes or mortuaries.
   Q.   Gaming Facilities: Establishments engaged in the lawful, on-site
operation of games of chance that involve the risk of money for financial gain
by patrons. Gaming facilities may include the accessory sale of liquor and
food, pursuant to regulations of the city of Bettendorf and/or the state of
Iowa.
   R.   Kennels: Boarding and care services for dogs, cats, and similar small
mammals or large birds; or any premises on which more than four (4) animals
included under this definition over four (4) months of age are kept and
maintained. Typical uses include boarding kennels, pet motels, or dog-training
centers.
   S.   Laundry Services: Establishments primarily engaged in the provision of
laundering, cleaning, or dyeing services other than those classified as
personal services. Typical uses include bulk laundry and cleaning plans, diaper
services, or linen supply services.
   T.   Liquor Sales: Establishments or places of business engaged in retail
sale for off-premise consumption of alcoholic beverages. Typical uses include
liquor stores, bottle shops, or any licensed sales of liquor, beer, or wine for
off-site consumption.
   U.   Lodging: Lodging services involving the provision of wholly or
primarily short-term rental room and/or board, but not meeting the
classification criteria of bed and breakfasts. Typical uses include hotels,
apartment hotels, and motels.
   V.   Pawn Shop: A business that loans money on deposit or pledge of personal
property or other thing of value, or that deals in the purchasing of personal
property or other things of value, on condition of selling the same back at a
stipulated price, or that receives actual possession of personal property as
security for loans with or without a bill of sale. The establishment of a pawn
shop in the Bettendorf jurisdiction is subject to the requirements of
Chapter 3-7 of the Bettendorf City Code.
   W.   Personal Improvement Services: Establishments primarily engaged in the
provision of informational, instructional, personal improvements, and similar
services of a nonprofessional nature. Typical uses include driving schools,
health or physical fitness studios, music schools, reducing salons, dance
studios, and handicraft and hobby instruction.
   X.   Personal Services: Establishments or places of business primarily
engaged in the provision of services of a personal nature. Typical uses include
beauty and barber shops; seamstress, tailor, or shoe repair shops; photography
studios; television or electronics repair; or drycleaning stations serving
individuals and households. Personal services include establishments providing
for the administration of massage or massage therapy carried out by persons
licensed by the state of Iowa when performing massage services as a part of the
profession or trade for which licensed or persons performing massage services
under the direction of a person so licensed, or persons performing massage
services or therapy pursuant to the written direction of a licensed physician.
   Y.   Pet Services: Retail sales, incidental pet health services and grooming
and boarding, when totally within a building, of dogs, cats, birds, fish, and
similar small animals customarily used as household pets. Typical uses include
pet stores, small animal clinics, dog bathing and clipping salons, and pet
grooming shops, but exclude uses for livestock and large animals.
   Z.   RV (Recreation Vehicle) Storage: Establishments that include the
storage and/or display of boats, campers, and motorized recreational vehicles
for the purpose of rental or sale.
   AA.   Research Services: Establishments primarily engaged in research of an
industrial or scientific nature. Typical uses include electronics research
laboratories, space research and development firms, testing laboratories, or
pharmaceutical research labs.
   BB.   Restaurants: A use engaged in the preparation and retail sale of food
and beverages, including the sale of alcoholic beverages when conducted as a
secondary feature of the use. Note: Establishments that derive fifty percent
(50%) or more of their revenue from alcohol sales are defined as a bar.
      1.   Restaurant (Neighborhood): A smaller, neighborhood-scale
establishment characterized by table service to customers and/or accommodation
to walk-in clientele, as opposed to drive-in or fast food restaurants. Often
located in a mixed-use building, typical uses include cafes, coffee shops, and
restaurants. Total restaurant square footage is limited to three thousand five
hundred (3,500) square feet. If proposed as a single use on a site, the total
site area is limited to three quarters (0.75) of an acre, or thirty two
thousand six hundred seventy (32,670) square feet.
      2.   Restaurant (General): An establishment characterized by table
service to customers and/or accommodation to walk-in clientele, as opposed to
drive-in or fast food restaurants. Typical uses include cafes, coffee shops,
and restaurants, unrestricted as to size.
      3.   Restaurant (Drive-In or Fast Food): An establishment that
principally supplies food and beverages in disposable containers and is
characterized by high automobile accessibility and on-site accommodations,
self-service, and short stays by customers.
   CC.   Retail Services:
      1.   Sale or rental with incidental service of commonly used goods and
merchandise for personal or household use but excludes those classified more
specifically by these use type classifications. Typical uses include department
stores, apparel stores, furniture stores, or establishments providing the
following products or services:
      2.   Household cleaning and maintenance products; drugs, cards,
stationery, notions, books, tobacco products, cosmetics, and specialty items;
flowers, plants, hobby materials, toys, and handcrafted items; apparel jewelry,
fabrics and like items; cameras, photograph services, household electronic
equipment, records, sporting equipment, kitchen utensils, home furnishing and
appliances, art supplies and framing, arts and antiques, paint and wallpaper,
hardware, carpeting and floor covering; interior decorating services; office
supplies; mail order or catalog sales; bicycles; and automotive parts and
accessories (excluding service and installation). General retail services
include:
         a.   Limited Retail Services: Establishments providing retail
services, occupying facilities of ten thousand (10,000) square feet or less.
Typical establishments provide for specialty retailing or retailing oriented to
Bettendorf and its surrounding vicinity.
         b.   Large Retail Services: Establishments providing retail services,
occupying facilities between ten thousand one (10,001) and forty thousand
(40,000) square feet in a single establishment or multi-tenant facility.
Typical establishments provide for specialty retailing or general retailing
oriented to Bettendorf and its surrounding vicinity.
         c.   Mass Retail Services: Establishments providing retail services,
occupying facilities over forty thousand (40,000) square feet in a single
establishment or multi-tenant facility. Typical establishments provide for
general retailing oriented to Bettendorf and the surrounding region.
   DD.   Stables And/Or Riding Academies: The buildings, pens, and pasture
areas used for the boarding and feeding of horses, llamas, or other equine not
owned by the occupants of the premises. This use includes instruction in
riding, jumping, and showing or the riding of horses/equine for hire.
   EE.   Surplus Sales: Businesses engaged in the sale, including sale by
auction, of used items or new items which are primarily composed of factory
surplus or discontinued items. Surplus sales uses sometimes include regular
outdoor display of merchandise. Typical uses include flea markets, auction
houses, factory outlets, or merchandise liquidators.
   FF.   Trade Services: Establishments or places of business primarily engaged
in the provision of services that are not retail or primarily dedicated to
walk-in clientele. These services often involve services to construction or
building trades and may involve a small amount of screened, outdoor storage in
appropriate zoning districts. Typical uses include shops or operating bases for
plumbers, electricians, or HVAC (heating, ventilating, and air conditioning)
contractors.
   GG.   Travel Centers: Facilities that provide for the sale of fuel,
provisions, and supplies to motorists, including operators of over-the-road
trucks, in which less than thirty percent (30%) of the total site area is
devoted to the servicing, accommodation, parking, or storage of over-the-road
trucks. The calculation of these areas includes, but is not limited to, fuel
islands for diesel fuel, truck washing facilities, truck parking areas, and
associated maneuvering areas.
Travel centers include a mix of uses, including food sales, general retail
services, auto and equipment services, and restaurants, and are typically
located along or near interstate highways or other principal state and federal
designated highway routes. See also convenience food sales.
   HH.   Truck Stops: Facilities that provide for the sale of fuel, provisions,
supplies to motorists, including operators of over-the-road trucks, in which
thirty (30%) or more of the total site area is devoted to the servicing,
accommodation, parking, or storage of over-the-road trucks. The calculation of
these areas includes but is not limited to fuel islands for diesel fuel, truck
washing facilities, truck parking areas, and associated maneuvering areas.
Travel centers include a mix of uses, including food sales, general retail
services, auto and equipment services, and restaurants, and are typically
located along or near interstate highways or other principal state and federal
designated highway routes. See also convenience food sales.
   II.   Veterinary Services (General): Veterinary services and hospitals for
small animals. Typical uses include pet clinics, and dog and cat hospitals.
   JJ.   Veterinary Services (Large Animal): Veterinary services and hospitals
for large animals such as cows, bulls, horses, and other livestock. Typical
uses include veterinary hospitals for livestock and large animals. (Ord. 35-17,
10-17-2017; amd. Ord. 07-20, 4-21-2020)
11-2-8: PARKING USE TYPES:
    A.   Off-Street Parking: Parking use types include surface parking of motor
vehicles on a temporary basis within a privately or publicly owned off-street
parking facility.
   B.   Parking Structure: The use of a site for a multilevel building which
provides for the parking of motor vehicles on a temporary basis, other than as
an accessory to a principal use on the same site. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-2-9: INDUSTRIAL USE TYPES:
Industrial use types include the on-site extraction or production of goods by
nonagricultural methods and the storage and distribution of products.
   A.   Agricultural Industry: Establishments which include the storage,
manufacture, sale, or distribution of agricultural supplies or products that
create major external effects, including substantial truck or rail traffic and/
or significant potential for hazard. Typical uses include grain elevators and
storage of agricultural chemicals, such as anhydrous ammonia. Agricultural
industries do not include retailers of farm equipment or other, generally non-
hazardous agricultural supplies.
   B.   Construction Yards: Establishments housing facilities of businesses
primarily engaged in construction activities, including incidental storage of
materials and equipment on lots other than construction sites. Typical uses are
building contractor's yards.
   C.   Custom Manufacturing: Establishments primarily engaged in the on-site
production of goods by hand manufacturing, within enclosed structures,
involving:
      1.   The use of hand tools, or
      2.   The use of domestic mechanical equipment not exceeding two (2)
horsepower, or
      3.   A single kiln not exceeding eight (8) KW or equivalent.
This category also includes the incidental direct sale to consumers of only
those goods produced on site. Typical uses include ceramic studios, custom
jewelry manufacturing, and candle making shops.
   D.   Junkyard or Salvage Yard: Any place not fully enclosed in a building,
excluding a salvage yard, which is used in whole or in part for the storage or
deposit of junk encompassing either:
            (1)   An area of two hundred (200) square feet or more, or
            (2)   One or more inoperable motor vehicles, or used parts and
materials thereof, which taken together equal the bulk of one or more motor
vehicles.
   E.   Light Industry: Establishments engaged in the manufacture or processing
of finished products from previously prepared materials, including processing,
fabrication, assembly, treatment, and packaging of such products, and
incidental storage, sales, and distribution. These establishments are
characterized by having no major external environmental effects across property
lines and include no unscreened or unenclosed outdoor storage. Typical uses
include commercial bakeries, dressed beef processing plants, soft drink
bottling, apparel assembly from fabrics, electronics, manufacturing, print
shops, and publishing houses.
   F.   General Industry: Enterprises engaged in the processing, manufacturing,
compounding, assembly, packaging, treatment or fabrication of materials and
products from prepared materials or from raw materials without noticeable
noise, odor, vibration, or air pollution effects across property lines, but
often including outdoor storage of materials or products.
   G.   Heavy Industry: Enterprises involved in the basic processing and
manufacturing of products, predominately from raw materials, with noticeable
noise, odor, vibration, or air pollution effects across property lines; or a
use or process engaged in the storage of or processes involving potentially or
actually hazardous, explosive, flammable, radioactive, or other commonly
recognized hazardous materials.
   H.   Recycling Collection: Any site which is used in whole or part for the
receiving or collection of any post-consumer, non-durable goods including, but
not limited to, glass, plastic, paper, cardboard, aluminum, tin, or other
recyclable commodities.
   I.   Recycling Processing: Any site which is used for the processing of any
post-consumer, nondurable goods including, but not limited to glass, plastic,
paper, cardboard, aluminum, tin, or other recyclable commodities.
   J.   Resource Extraction: A use involving on-site extraction of surface or
subsurface mineral products or natural resources, excluding site grading for a
specific construction project or preparation of a site for subsequent
development. Typical uses are quarries, borrow pits, sand and gravel
operations, mining, and removal of dirt for off-site use.
   K.   Vehicle Storage: Long- or short-term storage of operating or non-
operating vehicles. Typical uses include storage of private parking tow-a-ways
or impound yards but exclude dismantling or salvage.
   L.   Warehousing (Office Records): The storage of office paper records in
file boxes.
   M.   Warehousing (Enclosed): Uses including storage, distribution, and
handling of goods and materials within enclosed structures. Typical uses
include wholesale distributors, storage warehouses, and van and storage
companies.
   N.   Warehousing (Open): Uses including open air storage, distribution, and
handling of goods and materials. Typical uses include monument yards, grain
elevators, and open storage. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-2-10: TRANSPORTATION USE TYPES:
Transportation use types include the use of land for the purpose of providing
facilities supporting the movement of passengers and freight from one point to
another.
   A.   Aviation (General): Airports, including take-off and landing fields,
aircraft parking and service facilities, and related facilities for operation,
service, fueling, repair, storage, charter, sales, and rental of aircraft, and
including activities directly associated with the operation and maintenance of
airport facilities and the provision of safety and security. Typical uses
include private or municipal airports.
   B.   Aviation (Private): Take-off or landing strips or fields within a
parcel generally put to other uses and primarily used for the convenience of
the owner of the parcel. Typical uses include private airstrips within a large
property.
   C.   Railroad Facility: Fixed railroad facilities, including switching
yards, equipment servicing facilities, and freight terminal facilities, but not
including normal right-of-way.
   D.   Transportation Terminal: Facility for loading, unloading, and
interchange of passengers, baggage, and incidental freight or package express,
including bus terminals, railroad stations, public transit facilities.
   E.   Truck Terminal: A facility for the receipt, transfer, short term
storage, and dispatching of goods transported by truck. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-
2017)
11-2-11: MISCELLANEOUS TYPE USES: 
   A.   Alternative Energy Production Devices: The use of a site for the
production of energy utilizing methods that do not involve the oxidation,
combustion, or fission of primary materials. Typical uses include solar
collector fields, geothermal energy installations, or water-powered mills or
generating facilities.
   B.   Amateur Radio Tower: A structure(s) for the transmission or
broadcasting of electromagnetic signals by FCC licensed amateur radio
operators.
   C.   Communications Tower: A structure(s) for the transmission or
broadcasting of radio, television, radar, or microwaves, ordinarily exceeding
the maximum height permitted in its zoning district. Typical uses include
broadcasting towers and cellular communications towers.
   D.   Construction Batch Plant: A temporary demountable facility used for the
manufacturing of cement, concrete, asphalt, or other paving materials intended
for specific construction projects.
   E.   Landfill A (Non-Putrescible Solid Waste Disposal): The use of a site as
a depository for solid wastes that do not readily undergo chemical or
biological breakdown under conditions normally associated with land disposal
operations. Typical disposal material would include ashes, concrete, paving
wastes, rock, brick, lumber, roofing materials, and ceramic tile.
   F.   Landfill B (Putrescible and Non-Putrescible Solid Waste Disposal): The
use of a site as a depository for any solid waste except hazardous and toxic
waste as defined by the Federal Environmental Protection Agency and/or the
state of Iowa. Typical disposal material would include non-putrescible wastes,
and putrescible wastes such as vegetation, tree parts, agricultural wastes
(garbage) and manure.
   G.   Wind Energy Conservation System (WECS): Any device that converts wind
energy to a form of usable energy, including wind charges, windmills, or wind
turbines. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND DEVELOPMENT CHARACTER AREAS (DCA): GENERAL
SECTION:
11-3-1:    Purpose
11-3-2:    Use Of Building Or Land
11-3-3:    Establishment Of Districts And DCAs
11-3-4:    Application of Districts
11-3-5:    Hierarchy
11-3-6:    Development Regulations
11-3-7:    Zoning Map
11-3-8:    Interpretation Of District Boundaries
11-3-9:    Vacated Areas
11-3-10: Annexation Of Territory
11-3-1: PURPOSE:
Zoning districts and DCAs are established in the zoning regulations to
implement the comprehensive plan, promote compatible land use patterns, and to
establish site development regulations appropriate to the purposes and specific
nature of each non-DCA district and DCA. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-3-2: USE OF BUILDING OR LAND:
No building or land shall be used and no building shall be erected,
reconstructed, or structurally altered, which is arranged, intended, or
designed to be used for any purpose other than a use which is permitted and
specified in a district or DCA in which such building or land is located. (Ord.
35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-3-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS AND DCAS:
Zoning base districts, and overlay districts are established for non-DCA areas
in Chapter 4 of this title. DCAs are established in Chapter 9 of this title.
These districts correspond to the various land use districts established by the
Bettendorf Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-3-4: APPLICATION OF DISTRICTS:
   A.   A base zoning district or DCA designation shall apply to each lot or
site within the city and its planning jurisdiction.
   B.   Overlay districts may be applied to any lot or site or any portion
thereof, in addition to a base zoning district or DCA designation. (Ord. 35-17,
10-17-2017)
11-3-5: HIERARCHY:
References in this zoning title to less intensive or more intensively urbanized
districts shall be deemed to refer to those agricultural, residential,
commercial, and industrial base zoning districts established in Chapter 4 of
this title, and shall represent a progression from the A-1 agricultural
district as the least intensively urbanized to the I-3 heavy industrial
district as the most-intensively urbanized. For DCAs, the progression is from
urban low intensity as the least intensive to industrial as the most intensive.
(Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-3-6: DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
For each zoning district or DCA, permitted uses are set forth in their
respective permitted use table. For zoning districts, these are Tables 11-4-5A,
11-4-5B, and 11-4-5C, Chapter 4 of this title, and for DCAs, they are Tables
11-8-5A, 11-8-5B, and 11-8-5C, Chapter 8 of this title. Individual chapters
describe the purpose and specific development regulations for each zoning
district and DCA. Supplemental Regulations within Chapter 11 of this title may
affect specific land uses or development regulations in each zoning district or
DCA. The applicable Supplemental Regulations are noted in the permitted use
table. Permitted accessory uses are indicated in Section
11-11-9 of this title, Supplemental Use Regulations: Accessory Uses. (Ord. 35-
17, 10-17-2017)
11-3-7: ZONING MAP:
   A.   Adoption of Zoning Map: Boundaries of zoning districts and DCAs
established by these zoning regulations shall be shown on the zoning map
maintained by the city clerk. This map shall bear the signature of the mayor
attested by the city clerk under the certification that this is the official
zoning map referred to by this title. This map, together with all legends,
references, symbols, boundaries, and other information, shall be adopted as a
part of, and concurrent with these regulations. Said zoning map shall be on
file with the city clerk and shall be readily accessible to the public at
Bettendorf City Hall. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-3-8: INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
The following rules shall apply in determining the boundaries of any zoning
district or DCA shown on the zoning map.
   A.   DCA boundaries are indicated as approximate as opposed to following lot
lines.
   B.   Where district or DCA boundaries are indicated as within street or
alley, railroad, streams or creeks, or other identifiable rights-of-way, the
centerline of such rights-of-way shall be deemed the district boundary.
   C.   Where a zoning district or DCA boundary line divides a lot in single
ownership on the effective date of this title or amendment, the regulations of
this title for either portion of such lot may, at the owner's discretion, apply
to the entire area of the lot or twenty five feet (25') beyond the zoning
district or DCA boundary line, whichever is the lesser distance.
   D.   Where district or DCA boundaries are indicated as approximately
following corporate limits, such corporate limits shall be considered the
district boundaries.
   E.   Where district or DCA boundaries are indicated as approximately
following section lines, quarter-section lines, or quarter-quarter-section
lines, such lines shall be considered the district boundaries.
   F.   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed to
follow such shorelines, and in the event of change in the shoreline, shall be
construed as moving with the actual shoreline; boundaries indicated as
approximately following the centerlines of streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or
other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
   G.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features indicated
in Subsections A. through F. of this section shall be so construed. Distances
not specifically indicated on the official zone map shall be determined by
dimensions shown on the map, or in the absence of dimensions, by the scale of
the map.
   H.   Boundaries not capable of being determined as set forth in Subsections
11-3-8 A through G of this chapter shall be as dimensioned on the official
zoning map or if not dimensioned shall be determined by the scale shown on the
map. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-3-9: VACATED AREAS:
Whenever any street, alley, public way, railroad right-of-way, waterway, or
other similar area is vacated by proper authority, the districts or DCAs
adjoining each side of such street, alley, public way, railroad right-of-way,
or similar areas shall be extended automatically to the center of such vacation
and all area included in the vacation shall then and thenceforth be subject to
all appropriate regulations of the extended district or DCA. In the event of a
partial vacation, the adjoining district or DCA, or district or DCA nearest the
portion vacated shall be extended automatically to include all of the vacated
area. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-3-10: ANNEXATION OF TERRITORY:
Any territory hereafter annexed shall, upon annexation, be automatically
classified in the A-1 agricultural district, until such territory is
reclassified in a manner provided by law. If within ninety (90) days after
annexation no application for reclassification of the property has been filed,
the planning and zoning commission shall, after petition to the clerk of the
council, schedule a public hearing on the advisability of the zoning
classification of the property and thereafter, if needed, make recommendations
for the reclassification of the property. The commission shall give
consideration to the proposals set forth in the comprehensive plan before
making any recommendation. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
CHAPTER 4
NON-DEVELOPMENT CHARACTER AREA (DCA) ZONING DISTRICTS AND PERMITTED USE TABLE
SECTION:
11-4-1:    Purpose
11-4-2:    Establishment Of Districts
11-4-3:    Levels of Permitted Uses
11-4-4:    Supplemental Use Regulations
11-4-5: Permitted Use Table
11-4-1: PURPOSE:
Zoning districts are established in the zoning regulations to promote
compatible land use patterns and to establish site development regulations
appropriate to the purposes and specific nature of each non-DCA district. (Ord.
35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-4-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS:
The following base districts and overlay districts are hereby established for
non-DCA areas. These districts correspond to the various land use districts
established by the Bettendorf Comprehensive Plan.
BASE ZONING DISTRICTS DISTRICT NAMES
BASE ZONING DISTRICTS DISTRICT NAMES
A-1                   Agricultural/Urban Reserve District
A-2                   Rural Residence District
R-1                   Single-Family Residence District
R-2                   Single-Family Residence District
R-3                   Mixed Residential District
R-4                   Medium-Density Multi-Family Residence District
R-5                   High-Density Multi-Family Residence District
R-MHP                 Mobile Home Residential District
                      
 
BASE ZONING DISTRICTS DISTRICT NAMES
BASE ZONING DISTRICTS DISTRICT NAMES
C-1                   Neighborhood Commercial District
C-2                   Community Commercial General District
C-3                   Business District
C-6                   Office and Research Park District
C-7                   Regional Entertainment District
I-1                   Limited Industrial District
I-2                   General Industrial District
I-3                   Heavy Industrial District
PUD                   Planned Unit Development District
 
 
OVERLAY DISTRICTS
FD     Floodway/Floodplain Overlay District
DMP    Downtown Master Plan Overlay District
UTICOD Utica Ridge Overlay District
 
(Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-4-3: LEVELS OF PERMITTED USES:
Within zoning districts in Bettendorf, different uses are permitted with
different conditions. These are displayed in the permitted use table. A blank
cell means the use is not permitted in the zoning district. Levels of
permission include:
   A.   Uses Which Are Permitted By Right: These uses are permitted subject to
issuance of an occupancy permit by the zoning administrator, subject only to
compliance with all regulations of this title. These uses are indicated in the
permitted use table by a "P" in the applicable cell.
   B.   Special Uses: These uses are subject to approval of a special use
permit by the zoning board of adjustment, following the procedure set forth in
Chapter 15 of this title. These uses are indicated in the permitted use table
by an "S" in the applicable cell with supplemental regulations listed in the
right column. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-4-4: SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS:
Certain permitted uses require satisfaction of specific requirements in order
to function successfully in their urban or rural contexts. These supplemental
requirements are set forth in
Chapter 11 of this title. These requirements are cross-referenced in the
"supplementary regulations" column of the permitted use table. (Ord. 35-17, 10-
17-2017)
11-4-5: PERMITTED USE TABLE:
   Table 11-4-5A Agricultural, Residential, Civic, and Office Permitted Use
Table
Zoning Districts A1 A2 R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 RMHP C1 C2 C3 C6 C7 I1 I2 I3 Supplemental
                                                                   Regulations
Use Types
Zoning         A1 A2 R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 RMHP C1 C2 C3 C6 C7 I1 I2 I3 Supplemental
Districts                                                        Regulations
Use Types
Agricultural Uses
Horticulture   P                               P           P  P
Crop           P  P  P  P  P  P  P
Production
Animal         P
Production
Livestock      P
Sales
Residential Uses
Single-Family  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
Detached
Single-Family              P  P  P
Attached
Duplex                     P  P  P
Townhouse                  P  P  P          P
Multiple-                     P  P          P  P     S
Family
Downtown                                 P  P  P
Residential
Live/Work                                P  P  P
Dwelling
Group                         P  P          P
Residential
Boarding House                   P          P  P
Mobile Home                         P
Park
Civic Uses
Administration P              S  S       P  P  P  P
Cemetery       S
Clubs             P  S  S  S  S  P       P  P  P
(Recreational)
Clubs (Social)             S  S  P       P  P  P
College/                      S  P          P  P  P     P  P
University
Convalescent                  S  P          P  P
Services
Cultural             S  S  S  S  S       S  P  P  P  P
Services
Day Care          H  H  H  H  H  H                               Permitted by
(Limited)         O  O  O  O  O  O       P  P  P  S              HOP in R
                  P  P  P  P  P  P
Day Care          S  S  S  S  S  S       P  P  P  S     S  S
(General)
Detention                                      S     S  S  S
Facilities
Emergency                     S  S          S  S
Residential
Group Care                    S  S       S  P
Facility
Family Home          P  P  P  P  P                               By State Law
Guidance                      S  S          S  S
Services
Health Care                   S  S       P  P  P  P  P
Hospital                      S  S          P  P  P     P  S
Maintenance                                             P  P  P
Facility
Park and       P  P  P  P  P  P  P       P  P  P  P  P  P  S
Recreation
Postal         P  P  P  P  P  P  P       P  P  P  P     P
Facilities
Primary           P  P  P  P  P  P       P  P  P
Education
Public                                      P  P  P  P  P  P
Assembly
Religious         P  P  P  P  P  P       P  P  P
Assembly
Safety               S  S  S  S  S       P  P  P  P  P
Services
Secondary         P  P  P  P  P  P          P  P
Education
                                                                 *Sewage
                                                                 treatment SUP,
Utilities      P  P  P  P  P  P  P       P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  Power plant
                                                                 restricted
                                                                 locations
General                                  P  P  P  P     P  P  P
Offices
Financial                                P  P  P  P
Services
Medical                                  P  P  P  P
Offices
 
   Table 11-4-5B Commercial And Parking Permitted Use Table
Zoning Districts A1 A2 R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 RMHP C1 C2 C3 C6 C7 I1 I2 I3 Supplemental
                                                                   Regulations
Use Types
Zoning         A1 A2 R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 RMHP C1 C2 C3 C6 C7 I1 I2 I3 Supplemental
Districts                                                        Regulations
Use Types
Commercial Uses
Adult                                                   P  P  P
Entertainment
Ag Sales/      S                               P           P  P
Service
Auto Auction                                               P  P
Lots
Auto Rental/                                S  P  P     P  P  P
Sales
Auto Services                            S  S  P  S  S     P  P
Body Repair                                    P           P  P
Equip Rental/                                  P           P  P
Sales
Equipment                                                  P  P
Repair
Bed and
Breakfast/                                     S     S
Short-term
Rental
Business
Support                                        P           P  P
Services
Business/Trade                                 P  P     P  P
School
Campground     P                                     S
Commercial Rec
(Controlled    S  S                      S  P  P     P
Impact)
Commercial Rec                                 S     P  P  P  P
(High Impact)
Communication  S                            P  P  S     P  P     No tower
Service
Construction                                   P        P  P  P
Sale/Service
Consumer                                    P  P
Service
Convenience                                             P  P  P  stds in supp
Storage                                                          regs
Food Sales
(Convenience,                            P  P  P     P
Limited Gas)
Food Sales
(Convenience,                               S  P     P
Unlimited Gas)
Food Sales                               P  S  P
(Limited)
Food Sales                                  P  P
(General)
Funeral
Service, No                              P  P  P                 No crematory
Crematory
Funeral
Service, with                                              S  S
Crematory
Gaming                                               P
Facilities
Kennels        P                            S  S        P  P  P  With Vet
Laundry                                  P  P  P
Services
Liquor Sales                                P  P
Lodging                                  P  P  P  P  P  P  S  S
Pawnshop                                    S  S
Personal                                 P  P  P  P
Improvement
Personal                                 P  P  P
Services
Pet Services   P                            P  P           P  P
RV Storage                                           P  P  P  P
Research                                       P  P     P  P  P
Services
Restaurants                                                      All outdoor
(Neighborhood)                           P  P  P  P  P           patios require
                                                                 SUP
Restaurants                                 P  P  P  P
(General)
Restaurants                                 P  P     P
(Drive-thru)
Retail
Services                                 P           P
(Limited)
Retail
Services                                    P  P
(Large)
Retail
Services                                    P  P     P
(Mass)
Stables        P
Surplus Sales                                           P  P  P
Bar                                      S  S  S  S  S
Trade Services                                 P        P  P  P
Travel Centers                                 P  S  P  S  S  S
Truck Stops                                    P        P  P
Vehicle
Storage                                        P     P
(Short-term)
Veterinary
Services       S                            P  P
(General)
Veterinary
Services       S                                           P
(General)
Parking Uses
Off-Street                    S  S       P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
Parking
Parking                                     P  P  P  P
Structure
 
   Table 11-4-5C Industrial, Transportation, And Miscellaneous Permitted Use
Table
Zoning Districts A1 A2 R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 RMHP C1 C2 C3 C6 C7 I1 I2 I3 Supplemental
                                                                   Regulations
Use Types
Zoning Districts A1 A2 R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 RMHP C1 C2 C3 C6 C7 I1 I2 I3 Supplemental
                                                                   Regulations
Use Types
Industrial Uses
Agricultural     S                                           P  P
Industry
Construction                                     P           P  P
Yards
Custom                                           P  P     P  P  P
Manufacturing
Junkyards                                                    P  P
Light Industry                                   P  P     P  P  P
General Industry                                             P  P
Heavy Industry                                                  P
Recycling                                                    P  P
Collection
Recycling                                                       P
Processing
Resource         S                                           S  S
Extraction
Vehicle Storage                               P  P        P  P  P
(Long-term)
Warehousing                                      P        P  P  P
(Enclosed)*
Warehousing                                      P        P  P  P
(Open)
Aviation         S
(General)
Aviation         S
(Private)
Railroad                                                     P  P
Facilities
Transportation                                P  P  P  P  P  P  P
Terminal
Truck Terminal                                            S  P  P
Parking                                       P  P  P  P  P  P  P
Structure
Miscellaneous Uses
Alternative
Energy           P                                        S  S  P
Production
Amateur Radio       S  S  S  S  S  S
Tower
Communications   S                                        S  S  S
Tower
Construction     S                                           S  S
Batch Plant
Landfill (Non-   S                                              P
Putrescible)
Landfill                                                        P
(Putrescible)
WECS             S  S                               S     S  S  S
 
Residential lots zoned and platted for multi-family and two-family dwelling
units with lot dimensions that conform to the zoning requirements of C-5,
Office Transitional zoning prior to September 19, 2006, and which lot widths
and lot sizes have only been reduced through condemnation, shall be considered
conforming in R-3, Single Family Residence District (two family dwelling only),
R-4, Multi Family Residence District (non-townhouse) and R-5, Multi Family
Residence District. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017; amd. Ord. 22-19, 11-5-2019; Ord.
19-23, 8-15-2023)
CHAPTER 5
NON-DEVELOPMENT CHARACTER AREA (DCA) ZONING DISTRICTS SITE DEVELOPMENT
REGULATORS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Guide To Site Development Regulators
11-5-2: A-1 Agricultural/Urban Reserve District
11-5-3: A-2 Rural Residence District
11-5-4: R-1 Single-Family Residence District
11-5-5: R-2 Single-Family Residence District
11-5-6: R-3 Mixed Residential District
11-5-7: R-4 Medium Density Multi-Family Residence District
11-5-8: R-5 High Density Multi-Family Residence District
11-5-9: R-MHP Mobile Home Park District
11-5-10: C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District
11-5-11: C-2 Community Commercial District
11-5-12: C-3 General Business District
11-5-13: C-6 Office And Research Park District
11-5-14: C-7 Regional Entertainment District
11-5-15: I-1 Limited Industrial District
11-5-16: General Industrial District
11-5-17: I-3 Heavy Industrial District
11-5-18: PUD Planned Unit Development
11-5-1: GUIDE TO SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATORS:
The regulators set forth in Section
11-5-2 through Section
11-5-17 of this chapter, establish the limits and requirements for most
development in the city of Bettendorf and its extra-territorial jurisdiction.
This section is intended to provide guidance for applying the regulators
contained in these tables.
   A.   Site Area Per Housing Unit: This indicates the gross land area per unit
within a residential development. For example, a forty (40)-lot subdivision on
a ten (10)-acre (four hundred thirty five thousand six hundred [435,600] square
foot tract) will have a site area per unit of ten thousand eight hundred ninety
(10,890) square feet. Site area per unit, which measures gross density, may
differ from minimum lot size.
   B.   Minimum Lot Area: This indicates the minimum size of a legally
described and recorded parcel upon which development can take place. As noted
above, minimum lot area and site area per unit may not be the same.
   C.   Minimum Lot Width: This is the required minimum distance connecting at
points along opposite side lot lines, measured at the required front yard
setback. For example, the lot width of an irregular lot in a district requiring
a twenty five foot (25’) front yard setback is determined by:
      1.   Locating the points along each side lot line at a distance of twenty
five feet (25’) back from the front property line.
      2.   Drawing a line connecting these two (2) points.
      3.   Measuring the length of this line. The length is the lot width.
   D.   Minimum Yards: These define the required setbacks of buildings from
front, side, and rear property lines. While the yard requirements apply to a
majority of development, the ordinance provides for a number of exceptions.
Some of these include:
      1.   Planned Unit Developments: Front yard setbacks can be varied within
planned unit developments, which are reviewed and approved by the city council
after a recommendation from the planning commission.
      2.   Major Streets: The city may require greater than normal setbacks
along segments of the city's arterial street system, as defined in the
comprehensive development plan.
      3.   Flexibility Provided by Supplemental Development Regulations:
Chapter 11 of this title establishes supplemental regulations, many of which
provide flexibility or variations in setback regulations for specific contexts.
      4.   Maximum Setbacks: Some specific zoning districts provide maximum as
well as minimum setbacks. These setbacks establish "build-to" lines that may be
necessary to protect the appearance and character of special urban districts.
   E.   Maximum Height: Height normally measures the vertical distance from the
established grade to the highest point of a building. However, as established
by the definition of height, the point of measurement may vary for different
types of buildings and roof slopes. Maximum height is also established by
limitations on the number of building stories.
   F.   Minimum Depth Of Landscaping Adjacent To Street Rights-Of-Way: This
establishes the depth of landscaping that must be provided on private property
adjacent and in from the right-of-way line. Thus, if the required minimum depth
is fifteen feet (15’), a project must landscape the first fifteen feet (15’) of
its site back from the right-of-way line. All landscaping must be done in
accordance with Chapter 12 of this title, Landscaping and Buffering Standards.
   G.   Minimum Buffer Yard Requirements: This establishes the depth of a
buffer yard that must be provided by intensive land uses adjacent to primarily
residential land uses in residential zoning districts. All landscaping must be
done in accordance with
Chapter 12 of this title, Landscaping and Buffering Standards.
   H.   Maximum Building Coverage: This measures the percentage of a site that
may be covered by the footprint of buildings. Thus, a twenty thousand (20,000)
square foot building on a forty thousand (40,000) square foot site has a
building coverage of fifty percent (50%). This is a method of regulating the
scale of buildings in an area.
   I.   Maximum Impervious Coverage: This measures the percentage of a site
that may be covered by buildings and other surfaces and development features
which prevent the penetration of water into the ground (such as driveways,
porches, parking lots, and other features). Limits on impervious coverage help
control the velocity and quantity of stormwater runoff and provide for
groundwater recharge.
   J.   Floor Area Ratio: Just as site area per unit controls the density of
residential development, floor area ration (FAR) controls the density of non-
residential development. FAR is the ratio of gross floor area of a building to
total site area. Thus, in an area with a maximum permitted FAR of 1.0, a forty
thousand (40,000) square foot building may be located on a forty thousand
(40,000) square foot site. Naturally, because of coverage ratios, landscaping,
and parking requirements, such a building will be multi-story.
   K.   Supplemental Use Regulations: Certain permitted uses require
satisfaction of specific requirements in order to function successfully in
their urban or rural contexts. These supplemental requirements are set forth in
Chapter 11 of this title. These requirements are cross-referenced in the
"supplementary regulations" column of the use matrix. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-5-2: A-1 AGRICULTURAL/URBAN RESERVE DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The A1 district promotes and preserves agricultural uses,
including crop and animal production. This district is intended to accommodate
activities such as agriculture, horticulture, dairy farming, livestock farming,
poultry farming, general farming and other agricultural activities. This
district discourages low density single family residential development often
associated with agricultural areas by requiring a minimum five-acre lot size.
The A-1 district is also intended to maintain interim agricultural uses within
areas designated in the Bettendorf Comprehensive Plan as long-term urban growth
areas. The intent here is to discourage rural residential growth in these areas
that are in watersheds that can eventually accommodate development served by
extension of public sewers. Where these areas are outside the city limits of
Bettendorf, but within its two (2)-mile subdivision jurisdiction, it is
intended that the city work with the county to apply this district's site
development regulations to these long-term urban growth areas.
   B.   Site Development Regulations:
   Table 11-5-2B
Regulator 1-Family Detached Other Permitted Uses
Regulator                    1-Family Detached  Other Permitted Uses
Site Area per Housing Unit   NA
Minimum Lot Area             5 acres            5 acres (Note 2)
Minimum Lot Width (feet)     400 ft.
Minimum Yards (feet)
Front Yard (Note 1)          50 ft.             50 ft.
Side Yard                    50 ft.             50 ft.
Street Side Yard, Corner Lot 50 ft.             50 ft.
Rear Yard                    50 ft.             50 ft.
Maximum Height (feet)        35 ft. or 2 ½ Sto.35 ft. or 2 ½ Sto.
Maximum F.A.R.               0.2                0.2
 
Note 1: Front yard setback is measured from property line of platted lots. For
unplatted lots along roads, residential structures shall be set back
sufficiently to allow for future right-of-way dedications. This setback is
typically seventy five (75) feet from the center line of the adjacent road. The
city of Bettendorf may establish a different setback requirement based on the
specific context of a parcel. The reason for any such variation shall be
documented in writing by the city council.
Note 2: When approved by special use permit, a wireless communication facility
may be sited on an area not smaller than one acre.
   C.   Special Provisions:
      1.   Farm Residences and Farm Buildings: Farm residences and farm
buildings and other farm structures and uses on parcels over forty (40) acres
in size shall be exempt from the provisions of this title when used for the
agricultural purposes intended. However, the front yard requirements shall be
adhered to.
      2.   Sewer and Water: All dwellings erected after the effective date
hereof shall be served either by a municipal sewer and water system, private
community sewer and water system, or private individual sewerage and water
system approved by the Scott County Board of Health. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-5-3: A-2 RURAL RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The A-2 district provides for the rural residential use of
land, accommodating agriculture and very low density residential environments.
A-2 districts do not permit comprehensive agriculture, and are intended for
areas where farming is not a primary, permanent land use.
   B.   Site Development Regulations:
   Table 11-5-3B
Regulator 1-Family Detached Other Permitted Uses
Regulator                    1-Family Detached        Other Permitted Uses
Site Area per Housing Unit   N/A
Minimum Lot Area             15,000 sf                15,000 sf
Minimum Lot Width (feet)     100 ft.                  100 ft.
Minimum Yards (feet)
Front Yard (Note 1)          40 ft.                   40 ft.
Side Yard                    20 ft. total; 5 ft. min. 20 ft. total; 5 ft. min.
Street Side Yard, Corner Lot N/A                      N/A
Rear Yard                    40 ft.                   40 ft.
Maximum Height (feet)        35 ft. or 2 ½ stories   35 ft. or 2 ½ stories
Maximum F.A.R.               0.3                      0.3
Note 1: Front yard setback is measured from property line of platted lots. For
unplatted lots along roads, residential structures shall be set back
sufficiently to allow for future right-of-way dedications. This setback is
typically seventy five feet (75’) from the center line of the adjacent road.
The city of Bettendorf may establish a different setback requirement based on
the specific context of a parcel. The reason for any such variation shall be
documented in writing by the city council. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-5-4: R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: This district is the most restrictive of the residential
districts and is composed of certain quiet, low-density residential areas of
the community plus certain open areas where similar residential development
appears likely to occur. It is the intent of this district to provide for an
environment of predominantly low density single-unit dwellings plus certain
additional uses such as schools, parks, and certain public facilities which
serve the residents living in the district. All commercial activities including
room renting or other home occupations are prohibited.
   B.   Site Development Regulations:
   Table 11-5-4B
Regulator 1-Family Detached Other Permitted Non-Residential Uses
Regulator                    1-Family Detached           Other Permitted Non-
                                                         Residential Uses
Site Area per Housing Unit   N/A
Minimum Lot Area             10,000 s.f.                 10,000 s.f.
Minimum Lot Width            75 ft.                      75 ft.
Minimum Yards
Front Yard                   30 ft.                      30 ft.
Side Yard                    Total of 15 ft.; 5 ft. min. 15 ft.
Street Side Yard, Corner Lot 30 ft.                      30 ft.
Rear Yard                    30 ft.                      30 ft.
Maximum Height (Note 1)      35 ft. or 2 ½ stories      60 ft.
Maximum F.A.R.               0.4                         0.4
Note 1: Churches and schools are permitted a maximum height of sixty feet (60’)
for the main structure, and seventy five feet (75’) for towers or steeples.
(Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-5-5: R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: This district provides for the protection of certain areas of
the community developed principally for single-family uses. The purpose of this
district is to stabilize and preserve the residential character of existing
areas.
Uses permitted in the R-2 district are the same as those permitted in the R-
1 district, but bulk requirements permit higher densities in conformity with
existing conditions.
   B.   Site Development Regulations:
   Table 11-5-5B
Regulator 1-Family Detached Other Permitted Non-Residential Uses
Regulator                    1-Family Detached           Other Permitted Non-
                                                         Residential Uses
Site Area per Housing Unit   N/A
Minimum Lot Area             8,400 s.f.                  8,400 s.f.
Minimum Lot Width            65 ft.                      65 ft.
Minimum Yards
Front Yard                   25 ft.                      25 ft.
Side Yard                    Total of 10 ft.; 5 ft. min. 10 ft.
Street Side Yard, Corner Lot 25 ft.                      25 ft.
Rear Yard                    25 ft.                      25 ft.
Maximum Height (Note 1)      35 ft. or 2 ½ stories      60 ft.
Maximum F.A.R.               0.4                         0.4
Note 1: Churches and schools are permitted a maximum height of sixty feet (60’)
for the main structure, and seventy five feet (75’) for towers or steeples.
(Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-5-6: R-3 MIXED RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: This district is composed of certain low- to medium-density
residential areas representing a compatible commingling of single-family and
two (2)-family dwellings, with limited townhomes. It is the intent of this
district to provide an environment of low- to medium-density dwellings, plus
certain additional uses such as schools, parks, churches, and certain public
facilities which serve the residents living in the district. It has useful
application as a buffer or transition zone along major streets and bordering
shopping centers where a greater density is more objectionable.
   B.   Site Development Regulations:
   Table 11-5-6B
          1-Family 1-Family                   Townhouse (Note Other Non-
Regulator Detached Attached Duplex (2-Family) 2, 3, 4)        Residential
                                                              Permitted Use
              1-Family   1-Family    Duplex (2- Townhouse      Other Non-
Regulator     Detached   Attached    Family)    (Note 2, 3, 4) Residential
                                                               Permitted Use
Site Area per                                   3,000
Housing Unit
Minimum Lot   4,200 per  4,200 per
Area (square  unit       unit        8,400      2,400 per unit 6,000
feet)
Minimum Lot   60         35 per unit 70         24 per unit    60
Width (feet)
Minimum Yards
(feet)
Front Yard    25         25          25         25             25
              5 ft. min; 5 ft. min;  5 ft. min; 5 ft. min;     5 ft. min;
Side Yard     Total =    Total =     Total =    One side = 10; One side = 10;
              10 ft.;    10 ft.;     10 ft.;    total = min 15 total = min 15
Street Side
Yard/Corner   25         25          25         25             25
Lot
Rear Yard     25         25          25         25             25
Maximum       35 or 2 ½ 35 or 2 ½  35 or 2 ½
Height (feet) sto.       sto.        sto.       35 or 2 ½ sto.60
(Note 1)
Maximum       0.7        0.7         0.7        0.7            0.7
F.A.R.
Note 1: Churches and schools are permitted a maximum height of sixty feet (60’)
for the main structure and seventy five feet (75’) for towers or steeples.
Note 2: Townhouse structures not to exceed four (4) dwellings in a row.
Note 3: The required front yard or rear yard setback adjacent to any collector,
minor arterial, or principal arterial street as defined in the Bettendorf
Transportation Plan (April 11, 2013) shall be fifty feet (50’) OR thirty-five
feet (35’) when a berm, acceptable to the Planning and Zoning Commission and
City Council, is provided adjacent to the involved roadway. This note does not
apply to the following districts of the Downtown Master Plan: West Bridge
District; East Bridge District; and the portion of the Riverfront Entertainment
District north of the Railroad Right-of-Way.
Note 4: The maximum height allowed for any portion of any townhouse structure
within fifty feet (50’) of any lesser-zoned district shall be less than or
equal to the maximum height allowed in the lesser-zoned district. This note
does not apply to the following districts of the Downtown Master Plan: West
Bridge District; East Bridge District; and the portion of the Riverfront
Entertainment District north of the Railroad Right-of-Way. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-
2017; amd. Ord. 22-19, 11-5-2019)
11-5-7: R-4 MEDIUM DENSITY MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: This district is composed of certain medium-density
residential areas representing a compatible commingling of single-family, two-
family, and multi-family dwellings, including certain open areas where similar
residential development appears likely to occur. It is the intent of this
district to provide for an environment of medium-density dwellings, plus
certain additional uses such as schools, parks, churches, and certain public
facilities which serve the residents living in the district. Large apartments,
with corresponding proportions of open space, also may be developed under
prescribed standards of density and open space. In addition to large areas
allocated for this district, it has useful application as a buffer or
transition zone along major streets and bordering shopping centers.
   B.   Site Development Regulations:
Table 11-5-7B
          1-Family 1-Family Duplex  Town- house  Multi- Family Other Non-
Regulator Detached Attached (Two-   (Note 1, 5,  (Note 1, 5,   Residential
                   (Note 1) Family) 6)           6)            Permitted Use
                      1-Family   Duplex     Town- house Multi-      Other Non-
Regulator  1-Family   Attached   (Two-      (Note 1, 5, Family      Residential
           Detached   (Note 1)   Family)    6)          (Note 1, 5, Permitted
                                                        6)          Use
Site Area
per
Housing                                     3,000       2,500
Unit (sq.
ft.)
Minimum
Lot Area   7,200      3,500      7,000      2,000       2,500       10,000
(sq. ft.)
Minimum
Lot Width  60         35         70         24          70          75
(feet)
Minimum
Yards
(feet)
Front Yard
           25         25         25         25          25          25
(Note 4)
                                            5 ft. min;  5 ft. min;  5 ft. min;
Side Yard  5 ft. min; 5 ft. min; 5 ft. min; One         One         One
(Note 2)   Total=10   Total=10   Total=10   side=10;    side=10;    side=10;
           ft.;       ft.;       ft.;       total=min   total=min   total=min15
                                            15          15
Street
Side Yard/ 25         25         25         25          25          25
Corner Lot
Rear Yard  25         25         25         25          25          25
Maximum
Height     35 or 2 ½ 35 or 2 ½ 35 or 2 ½ 40 or 3     40 or 3     60
(feet)     sto.       sto.       sto.       stories     stories
(Note 3)
Maximum    0.7        0.7        0.7        0.7         0.7         0.7
F.A.R.
Note 1: Density regulators are shown on a per unit basis.
Note 2 - Separation of Townhouse Buildings: There shall be a minimum of fifteen
feet (15’) separation between adjacent townhouse row dwellings.
Note 3: Churches, schools, and hospitals are permitted a maximum height of
sixty feet (60’) for the main structure and seventy five feet (75’) for towers
or steeples.
Note 4: Where lots are not subject to established front yard setback
requirements, lots in the Downtown Master Plan area may reduce the front yard
setback to five feet (5’).
Note 5: The required front yard or rear yard setback adjacent to any collector,
minor arterial, or principal arterial street as defined in the Bettendorf
Transportation Plan (April 11, 2013) shall be fifty feet (50’) OR thirty-five
feet (35’) when a berm, acceptable to the Planning and Zoning Commission and
City Council, is provided adjacent to the involved roadway. This note does not
apply to the following districts of the Downtown Master Plan: West Bridge
District; East Bridge District; and the portion of the Riverfront Entertainment
District north of the Railroad Right-of-Way.
Note 6: The maximum height allowed for any portion of any townhouse or multi-
family residential structure within fifty feet (50’) of any lesser-zoned
district shall be less than or equal to the maximum height allowed in the
lesser-zoned district. This note does not apply to the following districts of
the Downtown Master Plan: West Bridge District; East Bridge District; and the
portion of the Riverfront Entertainment District north of the railroad right-
of-way. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017; amd. Ord. 22-19, 11-5-2019)
11-5-8: R-5 HIGH DENSITY MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: This district provides for certain high-density residential
areas within the community. It is the intent of this district to create a
predominantly residential environment of all types of residential structures,
plus certain additional uses such as schools, parks, churches, and certain
public facilities which serve the residents of the district. General commercial
or industrial uses, except certain enumerated uses, are prohibited. This
district normally abuts major thoroughfares and expressways that provide direct
access to the site.
   B.   Site Development Regulations:
   Table 11-5-8B
          1-Family 1-Family Duplex       Town- house  Multi-      Other Non-
Regulator Detached Attached (Two Family) (Note 1, 8,  Family      Residential
                   (Note 1)              9)           (Note 8, 9) Permitted Use
                      1-Family   Duplex     Town- house Multi-      Other Non-
Regulator  1-Family   Attached   (Two       (Note 1, 8, Family      Residential
           Detached   (Note 1)   Family)    9)          (Note 8, 9) Permitted
                                                                    Use
Site Area
per
Housing                                     3,000       1,500
Unit (sq.
ft.)
Minimum
Lot Area   7,000      3,500      7,000      2,000       10,000      10,000
(sq. ft.)
Minimum
Lot Width  60         35         70         24          70          75
(feet)
Minimum
Yards
(feet)
Front Yard 25         25         25         25          25          25
(Note 7)
                                            5 ft min;   5 ft min;   5 ft min;
Side Yard  5 ft min;  5 ft min;  5 ft min;  One side =  One side =  One Side =
(Note 2)   Total =    Total = 10 Total = 10 10;         10;         10;
           10ft       ft         ft         Total = min Total = min Total = min
                                            15          15          15
Street
Side Yard, 25         25         25         25          25          25
Corner Lot
Rear Yard  25         25         25         25          25          25
(Note 4)
Maximum
Height     10 stories 10 stories 10 stories 10 stories  10 stories  10 stories
(feet)     or 150 ft. or 150 ft. or 150 ft. or 150 ft.  or 150 ft.  or 150 ft.
(Note 3,5)
Minimum
Open Space N/A        N/A        N/A        35%         35%         N/A
(Note 6)
Maximum    2.5        2.5        2.5        2.5         2.5         2.5
F.A.R.
Note 1: Density regulators are shown on a per unit basis.
Note 2 - Separation of Townhouse Buildings: There shall be a minimum of fifteen
feet (15’) separation between adjacent townhouse row dwellings.
Note 3: Height limit in table for one- or two-story structures; the combined
side yard requirement shall be increased by five feet (5’) for each additional
story over two (2) and shall be distributed equally among the two side yards.
Note 4: Twenty five feet (25’) rear yard setback for one- or two (2)-story
structures; the required rear yard shall be increased by five feet (5’)for each
additional story over two (2).
Note 5: Churches, schools, and hospitals are permitted a maximum height of
sixty feet (60’) for the main structure and seventy five feet (75’) for towers
or steeples.
Note 6: Open space does not include driveways, parking areas, or structures.
Note 7: Where lots are not subject to established front yard setback
requirements, lots in the Downtown Master Plan area may reduce the front yard
setback to five feet (5’).
Note 8: The required front yard or rear yard setback adjacent to any collector,
minor arterial, or principal arterial street as defined in the Bettendorf
Transportation Plan (April 11, 2013) shall be fifty feet (50’) OR thirty-five
feet (35’) when a berm, acceptable to the Planning and Zoning Commission and
City Council, is provided adjacent to the involved roadway. This note does not
apply to the following districts of the Downtown Master Plan: West Bridge
District; East Bridge District; and the portion of the Riverfront Entertainment
District north of the railroad right-of-way.
Note 9: The maximum height allowed for any portion of any townhouse or multi-
family residential structure within fifty feet (50’) of any lesser-zoned
district shall be less than or equal to the maximum height allowed in the
lesser-zoned district. This note does not apply to the following districts of
the Downtown Master Plan: West Bridge District; East Bridge District; and the
portion of the Riverfront Entertainment District north of the railroad right-
of-way. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017; amd. Ord. 22-19, 11-5-2019)
11-5-9: R-MHP MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The R-MHP district recognizes that mobile home development,
properly planned, can provide important opportunities for affordable housing.
It provides opportunities for mobile home development within planned parks or
subdivisions, along with the supporting services necessary to create quality
residential neighborhoods.
   B.   Site Development Regulations:
   Table 11-5-9B
Regulator Mobile Home Park Other Permitted Uses
          (Note 1)
Regulator                                Mobile Home Park Other Permitted Uses
                                         (Note 1)
Site Area per Housing Unit (square feet)
   Single-wide Units                  4,500            N/A
   Double-wide Units                  5,000            N/A
Minimum MH Park Area                     10 acres         6,000
Minimum Lot Width (feet)                 50               60
Minimum Lot Length (feet)                80               80
Minimum Yards (Lots) (feet)
   Front Yard                         15               25
   Side Yard                          5                10
   Rear Yard                          10               10
Minimum Separation between Units (feet)  20               N/A
Maximum Height (feet)                    35               35
 
Note 1 - Mobile Home Park Supplemental Regulations: Complete development
standards for mobile home parks are set forth in
Chapter 11 of this title, Supplemental Regulations: General. (Ord. 35-17, 10-
17-2017)
11-5-10:   C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The C-1 neighborhood shopping district is intended to provide
areas to be used by retail or service establishments to supply convenience
goods or personal services for the daily needs of the residents living in
adjacent residential neighborhoods. The district is designed to encourage
shopping centers with planned off street parking and loading and provide for
existing individual or small groups of local stores. This district is normally
located near intersections of local, collector and/or arterial streets, is
relatively small in size, and has bulk standards comparable to the bulk
standards for low density residential.
   B.   Site Development Regulations for C-1 Districts:
   Table 11-5-10B
Table 11-5-10B
Regulator Residential (Note 1) Non-Residential Permitted Uses
Regulator                   Residential (Note 1) Non-Residential Permitted Uses
Site Area per Housing Unit  1,500
(sq. ft.)
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)  None                 None
Minimum Lot Width (feet)    None                 None
Minimum Yards (feet)
Front Yard (Note 4)         Min. 20              Min. 20
Side Yard (Note 2)          None                 None
Street Side Yard/Corner Lot 20                   20
Rear Yard Area              20                   20
Maximum Height (feet) (Note 45 or 3 sto.         45 or 3 sto.
3)
Maximum F.A.R.              1.0                  1.0
Note 1: Density regulators are shown on a per unit basis and located above the
first floor.
Note 2 - Side Yards: None required; however, if a yard is provided, it shall be
not less than five feet (5'). Adjoining a residential district, a side yard
equal to the adjacent yard required in the abutting residential district shall
be provided.
Note 3: Churches and schools are permitted a maximum height of sixty feet (60')
for the main structure and seventy five feet (75') for towers or steeples.
Note 4: Where lots are not subject to established front yard setback
requirements, lots in the Downtown Master Plan area may reduce the front yard
setback to five feet (5'). (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-5-11: C-2 COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The C-2 community shopping district is intended to provide
areas to be used as the primary shopping area for the local area and other
nearby communities, transients, and for the shopping area for occupants of
various business and industrial establishments. The district permits most all
types of business and commercial enterprises, offices, and service
establishments. While permitted commercial and office uses are generally
compatible with nearby residential areas, traffic and operating characteristics
of some uses may have an impact on adjacent residential neighborhoods. This
district is normally centrally located with respect to the shopping service
area and located at the convergence or along the major thoroughfares of the
community.
   B.   Site Development Regulations for C-2 Districts:
   Table 11-5-11B
          Town- house Multi-
Regulator (Note 6, 7) Family      Non-Residential Permitted Use
                      (Note 6, 7)
                             Town- house Multi-      Non-Residential Permitted
Regulator                    (Note 6, 7) Family      Use
                                         (Note 6, 7)
Site Area per Housing Unit   3,000       1,500       N/A
(sq. ft.) (Note 1)
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)   2,000       None        None
Minimum Lot Width (feet)     24          None        None
Minimum Yards (feet)
Front Yard (Note 5)          Min. 20     Min. 20     Min. 20
Side Yard (Note 2, 3)        None        None        None
Street Side Yard, Corner Lot 20          20          None
Rear Yard                    None        None        None
Maximum Height (feet) (Note  10 stories  10 stories  10 stories
4)
Maximum F.A.R.               4.0         4.0         4.0
Note 1: Density regulators are shown on a per unit basis and located above the
first floor.
Note 2 - Side Yards: None required; however, if a yard is provided, it shall be
not less than five feet (5'). Adjoining a residential district, a side yard
equal to the adjacent yard required in the abutting residential district shall
be provided.
Note 3: None required, except when abutting a residential district, then a rear
yard equal to the adjacent yard required in the abutting residential district
shall be required.
Note 4: Churches, schools, and hospitals are permitted a maximum height of
sixty feet (60') for the main structure and seventy five feet (75') for towers
or steeples.
Note 5: Where lots are not subject to established front yard setback
requirements, lots in the Downtown Master Plan area may reduce the front yard
setback to five feet (5').
Note 6: The required front yard or rear yard setback adjacent to any collector,
minor arterial, or principal arterial street as defined in the Bettendorf
Transportation Plan (April 11, 2013) shall be fifty feet (50') OR thirty-five
feet (35') when a berm, acceptable to the Planning and Zoning Commission and
City Council, is provided adjacent to the involved roadway. This note does not
apply to the following districts of the Downtown Master Plan: West Bridge
District; East Bridge District; and the portion of the Riverfront Entertainment
District north of the railroad right-of-way.
Note 7: The maximum height allowed for any portion of any townhouse or multi-
family residential structure within fifty feet (50') of any lesser-zoned
district shall be less than or equal to the maximum height allowed in the
lesser-zoned district. This note does not apply to the following districts of
the Downtown Master Plan: West Bridge District; East Bridge District; and the
portion of the Riverfront Entertainment District north of the railroad right-
of-way. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017; amd. Ord. 22-19, 11-5-2019)
11-5-12: C-3 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT:
    A.   Purpose: The C-3 general business district is intended to provide
mixed-use areas to be used for all types of retailing and service uses, certain
wholesale and warehousing uses, and some limited industrial activities that are
normally associated with commercial uses. The uses allowed are often large
space uses and cater to customers who do not make frequent purchases. The
market area for the permitted use extends to an area much larger than the local
community. Automotive service type uses and automobile associated uses are
normally located in this district to serve passerby traffic. Well-designed
larger scale apartment complexes may also be included in this district. The
district is normally located along major thoroughfares, where adequately sized
parcels of land allow for large setbacks, clear vision, and safe ingress and
egress.
   B.   Site Development Regulations for C-3 Districts:
   Table 11-5-12B
Regulator All Permitted Uses
          (Note 4, 5)
Regulator                            All Permitted Uses
                                     (Note 4, 5)
Site Area per Housing Unit (sq. ft.) 1,500
Minimum Lot Area                     None
Minimum Lot Width (feet)             None
Minimum Yards (feet)                  
Front Yard (Note 3)                  20
Side Yard (Note 1)                   None
Street Side Yard                     20
Rear Yard (Note 2)                   10% of lot depth to max. 10 ft.
Maximum Height (feet)                10 stories
Maximum F.A.R.                       2.0
 
Note 1 - Side Yards: None required; however, if a yard is provided, it shall be
not less than five feet (5'). Adjoining a residential district, a side yard
equal to the adjacent yard required in the abutting residential district shall
be provided.
Note 2: Adjoining a residential district, a rear yard equal to the adjacent
yard required in the residential district shall be required.
Note 3: Where lots are not subject to established front yard setback
requirements, lots in the Downtown Master Plan area may reduce the front yard
setback to five feet (5').
Note 4: For multi-family structures the required front yard or rear yard
setback adjacent to any collector, minor arterial, or principal arterial street
as defined in the Bettendorf Transportation Plan (April 11, 2013) shall be
fifty feet (50') OR thirty-five feet (35') when a berm, acceptable to the
Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council, is provided adjacent to the
involved roadway. This note does not apply to the following districts of the
Downtown Master Plan: West Bridge District; East Bridge District; and the
portion of the Riverfront Entertainment District north of the railroad right-
of-way.
Note 5: The maximum height allowed for any portion of any townhouse or multi-
family residential structure within fifty feet (50') of any lesser-zoned
district shall be less than or equal to the maximum height allowed in the
lesser-zoned district. This note does not apply to the following districts of
the Downtown Master Plan: West Bridge District; East Bridge District; and the
portion of the Riverfront Entertainment District north of the railroad right-
of-way. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017; amd. Ord. 22-19, 11-5-2019)
11-5-13: C-6 OFFICE AND RESEARCH PARK DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The C-6 office and research park district is intended to
provide land for large, attractively landscaped planned business parks
primarily along an interstate corridor. The area is appropriate for regional
and/or national businesses and offices, including research activities and some
specialized compatible industrial activities, which can take advantage of the
proximity to the interstate but are of low intensity and sufficiently
restricted to be compatible with adjacent residential and commercial
developments. The area is intended to have a "park like" atmosphere conducive
to quality development. Developments should include extensive landscaping,
abundant parking facilities, and good visual and pedestrian relationships among
buildings. No outdoor storage is allowed in this district, and all operations
must be in an enclosed building.
   B.   Site Development Regulations:
   Table 11-15-13B
Regulator Permitted Uses
Regulator                           Permitted Uses
Minimum District Size (square feet) 1 acre
Minimum Lot Area (square feet)      20,000
Minimum Lot Width (feet)            100
Minimum Yards (feet)                 
Front Yard                          50
Side Yard                           10 on one side, 25 total
Rear Yard                           50
Maximum Height (feet)               75
Maximum F.A.R.                      1.0
Maximum Lot Coverage                40%
 
   C.   Design Standards (Or Guidelines): Design standards for the C-6 district
are included in Chapter 11, Supplemental Regulations: General, Section
11-11-6 of this title. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017; amd. Ord. 22-19, 11-5-2019)
11-5-14: C-7 REGIONAL ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The C-7 public gathering and recreational activity district is
intended to provide areas for entertainment and commercial uses. The uses
permitted are characterized by large public gatherings having high volumes of
traffic, noise and disruption potential, and being located adjacent to high-
volume traffic streets and highways. Such facilities are expected to have large
groups of people for relatively short periods of time which may be conducted on
a seasonal basis. The area is characterized by large parcels and large parking
areas and containing buildings and ground facilities capable of handling large
groups of people at one time. Residential development is allowable if granted
by the board of adjustment through a special use permit. Residential
development would be for those who prefer to live close to entertainment/
commercial facilities.
   B.   Site Development Regulations:
   Table 11-5-14B
Regulator Requirement
Regulator                     Requirement
Minimum Lot Area              10 acres
Minimum Lot Width             250 feet
Minimum Yards (feet) (Note 1)  
   Front Yard (Note 2)     20
   Side Yard               10
   Rear Yard               20
Maximum Height (feet)         120
Maximum F.A.R.                1.0
Maximum Lot Coverage          40%
 
Note 1: The setbacks specified may be reduced by up to one-half when the owner
uses the setbacks to provide additional landscaping to screen the property or
take other means to decrease the impact to adjacent property caused by the
unique congestion associated with the C-7 district.
Note 2: Where lots are not subject to established front yard setback
requirements, lots in the Downtown Master Plan area may reduce the front yard
setback to five feet (5'). (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-5-15: I-1 LIMITED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The I-1 limited industrial district is intended to provide
lands for development by industrial firms that have high standards of
performance and that can locate in close proximity to residential and business
uses. The district regulations are designed to permit the operations of most
manufacturing, wholesaling, and warehousing activities with adequate protection
to adjacent district uses and sufficient control of external effects to protect
one industry from another. Some commercial business services are permitted that
require large tracts of land to operate and, therefore, are not economically
feasible or desirable to be located in a conventional commercial district.
Limited outdoor storage is allowed in this district, and all industrial
operations must be in an enclosed building. All uses must comply with the
performance standards.
   B.   Site Development Regulations:
   Table 11-5-15B
Regulator Requirement
Regulator                      Requirement
Minimum Lot Area (square feet) 20,000
Minimum Lot Width (feet)       100
Minimum Yards (feet)
Front Yard                     25
Side Yard                      10, with sum of side yards=25
Rear Yard                      50
Maximum Height (feet)          25 or two stories
Maximum F.A.R.                 0.6
Maximum Lot Coverage           40%
(Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-5-16: GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The I-2 general industrial district is intended to provide
lands for development by most types of industrial firms. The regulations are
designed to permit operations in a clean and quiet manner and to protect
adjacent district uses and industries within the district. Further development
of residences is prohibited in this district to keep homes from absorbing any
adverse effects of the industries and to conserve the supply of industrial land
for industrial use. All uses must comply with the performance standards.
   B.   Site Development Regulations:
   Table 11-5-16B
Regulator Requirement
Regulator                      Requirement
Minimum Lot Area (square feet) 20,000
Minimum Lot Width (feet)       100
Minimum Yards (feet)    
   Front Yard               25
   Side Yard                10, with sum of side yards=25
   Rear Yard                None
Maximum Height (feet) (Note 1) 35 or 3 stories
Maximum F.A.R.                 1.5
Maximum Lot Coverage           50%
Note 1 - Maximum Height: Three stories or thirty five feet (35') when within
two hundred feet (200') of any residential district. Beyond two hundred feet
(200') from a residential district, one additional foot in height may be added
for each two feet (2') of horizontal distance beyond two hundred feet (200').
(Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-5-17: I-3 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The I-3 heavy industrial district is intended to provide lands
for use by heavy or intense industries. The district is designed primarily for
manufacturing, assembling, and fabricating activities including large scale or
specialized operations whose external effects will be felt to some degree by
surrounding districts. Less restriction is placed upon outdoor use and storage,
although such use must conform to the "performance standards" of the district.
Certain uses having a nuisance potential are permitted only in this district,
and there only by special use permit. All uses must comply with the performance
standards.
   B.   Site Development Regulations:
   Table 11-5-17B
Regulator Permitted Uses
Regulator                      Permitted Uses
Minimum Lot Area (square feet) 40,000
Minimum Lot Width (feet)       150
Front Yard                     50
Side Yard                      10, with sum of side yards=25
Rear Yard                      None
Maximum Height (feet) (Note 1) unlimited
Maximum F.A.R.                 2.0
Maximum Lot Coverage           60%
 
Note 1 - Maximum Height: Three (3) stories or thirty five feet (35') when
within two hundred feet (200') of any residential district. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-
2017)
11-5-18: PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Purpose:
      1.   The purpose of the planned unit development (PUD) district is to
promote to the extent possible:
         a.   A maximum choice in the types of environment available to the
public by allowing a development that would not be possible under the strict
application of the other sections of this title.
         b.   Permanent preservation of common open space and recreation areas
and facilities.
         c.   A pattern of development to preserve natural vegetation,
topographic, and geologic features.
         d.   A creative approach to the use of land and related physical
facilities that results in better development, design, and the construction of
aesthetic amenities.
         e.   An efficient use of the land resulting in more economic networks
of utilities, streets, and other facilities.
         f.   A land use which promotes the public health, safety, comfort,
morals, and welfare.
      2.   The PUD district is intended to provide for a development
incorporating a single type or a variety of related uses which are planned and
developed as a unit but departs from the normal standards and requirements of
other sections of this title.
      3.   The planned unit development may provide amenities not otherwise
required by law and may establish facilities and open space greater than the
minimums required by law. Such development may consist of conventionally
subdivided lots or provide for development by a land use and zoning plan which
establishes the location and extent of the features of the planned unit
development in keeping with the purpose of the plan.
      4.   The foregoing purposes and principles shall not be interpreted to
permit the reduction of standards set forth in this chapter.
   B.   Procedure: The owner, owners, or bona fide buyer of any tract of land
may petition the city council for a change to the PUD zoning district in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 15 of this title. A planned unit
development shall be authorized in accordance with the following procedures:
      1.   Application Procedure:
         a.   The application for a rezoning to the PUD zoning district shall
be accompanied by an application plan meeting the requirements of Subsection
11-5-18 C.1. of this chapter and show evidence that the proposed development
will conform to the official city plan and to the purpose of the PUD district
set forth in Subsection
11-5-18 A. of this chapter. The planning and zoning commission and the city
council shall grant or deny said application pursuant to the provisions
contained in Chapter 15 of this title. Approval of the PUD zoning district
shall constitute an expression of approval by the city council of the
application plan as a guide to the preparation of the preliminary PUD plan. The
applications shall be accompanied by a filing fee in an amount equal to that
prescribed by Section
11-15-12 of this title.
         b.   To reduce the number of steps involved in the approval of a
planned unit development, a preliminary PUD plan meeting the requirements of
Subsection B.2. of this section and Subsection
11-5-18 C.2. of this chapter may be submitted in lieu of an application plan
required in Subsection B.1.a. of this section. This type of application shall
be accompanied by a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus an amount equal
to that prescribed by Subsection 2.a.(1) of this subsection.
      2.   Approval Of Preliminary Plan:
         a.   Supporting data in accordance with Subsection
11-5-18 C.2. of this chapter.
            (1)   A filing fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for ten (10)
acres or less and two hundred dollars ($200.00) for more than ten (10) acres if
Subsection B.1.a. of this section was followed, otherwise it has already been
included in the cost noted under Subsection B.1.b. of this section.
            (2)   Copies of the preliminary PUD plan and supporting data shall
be submitted to the city planner for certification as to conformity with these
regulations, recommendations, and suggestions regarding the overall design, if
any.
            (3)   Copies of the preliminary PUD plan shall be submitted to the
commission and, if needed, board of adjustment who shall hold public hearings
on the application for a preliminary PUD plan giving notice of the times and
places as required by state law by publishing a notice thereof at least once in
a Scott County publication having general circulation within the city.
Following the public hearings, a recommendation of approval or denial of the
preliminary PUD plan shall be made by the commission to the city council. If
needed, the board shall review the preliminary PUD plan and grant or deny any
exceptions or variances needed from the requirements of Chapters 5, 8, 12 and
13 of this title.
         b.   The commission shall set forth the reasons for the
recommendation, and said recommendation shall set forth how the proposal would
be in the public interest, including, but not limited to, findings of fact on
the following:
            (1)   In what respects the proposed plan is consistent with the
stated purpose of the planned unit development requirements.
            (2)   The extent to which the proposed plan meets the requirements
and standards of the planned unit development district.
            (3)   The extent to which the proposed plan departs from the zoning
and subdivision regulations otherwise applicable to the subject property,
including, but not limited to, the density, dimension, area, bulk and use, and
the reasons why such departures are deemed to be in the public interest.
            (4)   The physical design of the proposed plan and the manner in
which said design makes adequate provision for public services, provides
adequate control over vehicular traffic, provides for and protects designated
common open space, and furthers the amenities of light, air, recreation and
visual enjoyment.
            (5)   The relationship and compatibility of the proposed plan to
the adjacent properties and neighborhood.
            (6)   The desirability of the proposed plan to physical
development, tax base, and economic wellbeing of the entire community.
            (7)   The conformity with the intent and spirit of the
comprehensive plan.
            (8)   Specific points noted on the plan that have impact on its
design, function, and visibility in the community.
         c.   Following receipt of the recommendation by the commission and
approval by the board, the council shall, within sixty (60) days, recommend
approval, modification within limits of a minor change, or disapproval of the
planned unit development plan. As a condition to the approval of the
preliminary PUD plan, the council shall set forth findings of fact in accord
with this section on which they base their approval and describing how the
proposal meets the standards of Section
11-5-18 D. of this chapter.
         d.   All conditions, documents, and plans required by the council must
be delineated on the plat or agreed to in writing prior to council approval.
         e.   The council may require such special conditions as they may deem
necessary to ensure conformance with the intent of all comprehensive plan
elements, the stated purpose of the planned development district, and
established city policies.
         f.   Approval of a preliminary planned unit development plan shall not
constitute approval of the final plan. Rather, it shall be deemed an expression
of approval to the layout submitted on the preliminary plan as a guide to the
preparation of the final plan which will be submitted for approval of the city
and subsequent recording upon the fulfillment of the requirements of these
regulations and conditions of the preliminary plan approval, if any. The final
plan shall be approved as the final land use and zoning plan if it conforms
substantially to the preliminary land use and zoning plan.
The final plan may be considered as a preliminary and final plan and may be
submitted for preliminary and final approval, if all of the land is to be
developed at one time, and if all requirements hereof are met.
         g.   The provisions of Section
11-15-13 F. of this title shall be applicable to the preliminary PUD plan.
      3.   Approval Of Final Plan: The final planned unit development plan
shall be submitted to the city planner who shall refer same to the commission.
The final PUD plan shall conform to the preliminary PUD plan as approved or
subject to minor changes, and may be submitted in stages with each stage
reflecting the approved preliminary plan; provided, however, that such stage
conforms to all requirements of these regulations. The required procedure for
approval of a final plan shall be:
         a.   A final planned unit development plan and other supporting data
required for approval shall be in accord with the provisions of Section
11-5-18 C. of this chapter.
Final plans must be submitted for approval in accordance with agreed to
scheduling, but not later than five years from the approval of the preliminary
plan by the council. The council may grant an extension in time or the
developer may resubmit an application; in the event that same is not done, the
council shall initiate such zoning changes as it deems necessary to preserve
the public interest. If construction falls more than two (2) years behind the
schedule filed with the final plan, the plan becomes subject to revocation. The
city planner and the building inspector shall monitor all pending PUD projects
and inform the council of those six (6) months or more behind schedule.
         b.   The final plan and supporting data shall be submitted to the city
planner for certification that the final plan is in conformity with these
regulations and in agreement with the approved preliminary plan.
         c.   After review of the final plan, the commission shall submit the
planned unit development plan to the council with a recommendation for
approval, disapproval, or approval with minor modifications as reviewed at the
public hearing. Any changes or modifications which arise subsequent to the
public hearing shall be specifically noted and referred to the council who
shall determine whether the change constitutes a major or minor change and
whether another public hearing is required.
         d.   The city council shall, within sixty (60) days, approve,
disapprove, or extend the time period for another sixty (60) days in taking
action on the final plan.
         e.   All conditions, documents, and plans required by the council must
be delineated on the plan or agreed to in writing prior to council approval.
      4.   Recording Final Planned Unit Development Plan:
         a.   The construction of any public improvement in the planned unit
development shall be initiated only after recording of the final PUD plan with
the county recorder. Building permits are to be issued only after the final PUD
plan has been recorded with the county recorder, and shall be issued in full
conformance with this title.
         b.   The recording of the final plan shall inform all who deal with
the planned unit development of the restrictions placed upon the land and will
act as a zoning control device.
      5.   Changes In Planned Unit Development: The planned unit development
shall be developed according to the approved and recorded final plan, except
where authorized changes or amendments are permitted. The recorded plan and
supporting data together with all recorded amendments shall be binding on the
applicants, their successors, grantees and assigns, and shall limit and control
the use of premises and location of structures in the planned unit development
project as set forth therein.
         a.   Major Changes: A change in the approved preliminary PUD plan or
final PUD plan which alters the concept or intent of the planned unit
development including a change in usage, the configuration, increase in floor
area or the height of buildings, an increase in intensity, a reduction of
proposed open space, a change in road locations or standards, a change in the
final governing agreement, provisions or covenants, or other major changes
shall be approved only by submission of a new preliminary PUD plan in
accordance with the procedures as previously set forth for the approval of
preliminary and final PUD plans. All approved major changes in the final PUD
plan shall be recorded with the county recorder as amendments to the final PUD
plan.
         b.   Minor Changes: The city planner may approve minor changes in the
planned unit development which do not change the concept or intent of the
development, without going through the "preliminary approval" steps. Minor
changes shall be any change not defined as a major change.
   C.   Specific Content: The planned unit development plans and supporting
data shall include at least the following information:
      1.   Application Stage:
         a.   General Site Information: Data regarding site conditions, land
characteristics, available community facilities and utilities, existing
covenants, and other related information.
         b.   Sketch Plan: A drawing in simple sketch form showing the proposed
location and extent of the land uses, streets, lots and other features.
      2.   Preliminary Plan Stage:
         a.   Design Plan: A drawing of the planned unit development shall be
prepared at a scale of either one inch equals one hundred feet (100') or one
inch equals fifty feet (50'), or such other scale that may be recommended by
city staff. Any change in scale between the preliminary and final plan shall be
accompanied by a signed statement from the developer attesting that there have
been no modifications. All plans shall show the general location of proposed
streets (public and private), all buildings and their use, common open space,
recreation facilities, parking areas, service areas and other facilities to
indicate the character of the proposed development. The submission may be
composed of one or more sheets and drawings and shall include:
            (1)   Boundary Lines: Bearing and distances.
            (2)   Easements: General location, width, and purpose.
            (3)   Public And Private Streets On And Adjacent To The Tract:
Street names, right-of-way widths, existing or proposed centerline elevations,
pavement type, walks, curbs, gutters, culverts, distance to nearest
intersection, etc.
            (4)   Utilities (Public Or Private) On And Adjacent To The Tract:
Location, size, and invert elevations of sanitary, storm, and combined sewers;
location and size of water mains; location of gas lines, fire hydrants,
electric and telephone lines, and streetlights on the tract. The direction and
distance to the nearest usable water mains and sewers anticipated to be
utilized by the development and elevations of sewers. Drainage district
boundaries and appropriate design criteria necessary for storm drainage plans.
            (5)   Existing Ground Elevations On The Tract: For land that slopes
less than one-half of one percent (0.5%), show one foot contours; show spot
elevations at all breaks in grades along all drainage channels or swales and at
selected points not more than one hundred feet (100') apart in all directions;
for land that slopes more than one-half of one percent (0.5%), show two foot
(2') contours.
            (6)   Subsurface Conditions On The Tract, If Required By The
Commission or Council: Location and results of tests made to generally
ascertain subsurface soil, rock, and groundwater conditions; depth to
groundwater unless test pits are dry at a depth of five feet (5'); the location
and results of soil percolation tests if individual sewage disposal systems are
proposed.
            (7)   Other Conditions On The Tract: Watercourses, floodplains,
marshes, rock outcrop, wooded areas, isolated preservable trees one foot (1')
or more in diameter, houses, barns, accessory buildings, and other significant
features.
            (8)   Other Conditions On Adjacent Land: Approximate direction and
gradient of ground slopes, including any embankments or retaining walls;
character and general location of buildings, including a notation on the front
setback, railroads, power lines, towers, and other nearby nonresidential land
uses or adverse influences; and owners of adjacent unplatted land. For adjacent
platted land, refer to subdivision plan by name and show approximate percent
built up, typical lot size, and dwelling type.
            (9)   Zoning: Zoning on and adjacent to the tract.
            (10)   Proposed Public Improvements: Highways or other major
improvements planned by public authorities for future construction on or near
the tract.
            (11)   Open Space: All parcels of land intended to be dedicated for
public use of all property owners with the purpose indicated.
            (12)   Location, Purpose, And Height: General location, purpose,
and height, in feet or stories of each building other than single-family
residences on individually platted lots.
            (13)   Map Data: Name of development, north point and scale, date
of preparation, acreage of site, and name and address of developer, designer,
and engineer.
            (14)   Miscellaneous: Such additional information as may be
required by the commission, city planner, city engineer, council, or found in
the subdivision control ordinance.
         b.   Character: Explanation of the character of the planned unit
development and the reasons why it has been planned to take advantage of the
flexibility of these regulations.
         c.   Ownership: Statement of present and proposed ownership of all
land within the project, including present tract designation according to
official records in offices of the county recorder.
         d.   Schedule: Development schedule indicating:
            (1)   Stages in which project will be built with emphasis on area,
density, use, and public facilities, such as open space to be developed with
each stage shall be shown on the plan and through supporting graphic material.
            (2)   Completion date or dates of new construction for aboveground
and belowground facilities, utilities, and buffer planting. See also Subsection
11-5-18 B.3. of this chapter.
            (3)   If different land use types are to be included within the
planned unit development, the schedule must normally include the mix of uses to
be built in each stage.
         e.   Covenants: Proposed agreements, provisions, or covenants which
will govern the use, maintenance, and continued protection of the planned
development and any of its common open space.
         f.   Density: Provide information on the density of residential uses
and the number of dwelling units by type.
         g.   Use: Provide a list of uses planned for the ancillary and
nonresidential areas.
         h.   Service Facilities: Provide information on all service facilities
and off-street parking facilities.
    i.   Architectural Plans: Preliminary architectural plans for all primary
buildings shall be submitted in sufficient detail to permit an understanding of
the style of the development, the design of the building and the number, size,
and type of dwelling units.
         j.   Facilities Plans (Public and/or Private): Preliminary plans for:
            (1)   Roads, including classification, width of right-of-way, width
of pavement, typical construction details, and plan and profile drawings.
            (2)   Sanitary sewers.
            (3)   Storm drainage and erosion.
            (4)   Water supply system, if required by the commission.
            (5)   Lighting program, if required by the commission.
            (6)   Grading.
      3.   Final Plan Stage:
         a.   Final Detailed Plan: A final land use and zoning plan suitable
for recording with the county recorder shall be prepared. The purpose of the
land use and zoning plan is to designate the land subdivided into conventional
lots, as well as the division of other land, not so treated, into common open
areas and building areas. The final land use and zoning plan shall include, but
not be limited to:
            (1)   An accurate legal metes and bounds description of the entire
area under immediate development within the planned development.
            (2)   A subdivision plan of all subdivided lands in the same form
and meeting all the requirements of a normal subdivision final plan.
            (3)   An accurate legal metes and bounds description of each
separate unsubdivided use area, including common open space.
            (4)   Designation of the exact location of all buildings to be
constructed in unsubdivided areas.
            (5)   Tabulations on separate unsubdivided use area, including land
area, number of buildings, number of dwelling units, and dwelling units per
acre.
            (6)   Architectural plans unless waived by council during the
preliminary stage.
         b.   Common Open Space Documents: All common open space shall be
either conveyed to a municipal or public corporation, conveyed to nonprofit
corporation or entity established for the purpose of benefiting the owners and
residents of the planned unit development or retained by the developer with
legally binding guarantees, in a form approved by the city attorney, that the
common open space will be permanently preserved and maintained as open area.
All land conveyed to a nonprofit corporation or like entity shall be subject to
the right of said corporation to impose a legally enforceable lien for
maintenance and improvement of the common open space.
         c.   Engineering Data: All public utilities or improvements required
by the city in the development of a planned unit development shall be
constructed only after the approval of the final plan. Supporting data to be
submitted with the final plans shall include final engineering drawings
(construction plans), as required by the city engineer.
         d.   Guarantee Deposit: Prior to the acceptance by the city council of
public utilities and improvements, the contractors for the owner of the land
shall furnish to the city a good and sufficient bond with surety to secure to
the city the actual construction and installation of such public utilities or
improvements according to city specifications within two (2) years from the
date of approval by the council of the final plan or a petition to the city
council to provide the required public facilities or improvements and to assess
the cost thereof against the subdivided property in accordance with the local
requirements regarding special assessments; provided, however, that the
subdivider or property owners shall be responsible for any differences between
the cost of the public utilities or improvements and the amount that can be
legally assessed by the city against the subdivided property, and shall furnish
the necessary waivers to permit the assessment of the entire costs of the
public utilities or improvements. A maintenance bond shall be provided for the
repairs necessitated by defects in material or workmanship not to exceed four
(4) years from the date of completion as certified by the city engineer.
         e.   Certificates: Certificates, seals, and signatures required for
the dedication of lands and recording document, as set forth in the subdivision
regulations.
         f.   Covenants: Final agreements, provisions, or covenants which will
govern the use, maintenance, and continued protection of the planned unit
development.
   D.   Standards: The planned unit development must meet the following
standards:
      1.   Comprehensive Plan: A planned unit development must conform to the
intent and spirit of the comprehensive plan.
      2.   Size: The site of the total planned unit development must be under
single ownership and/or unified control and be not less than sixty thousand
(60,000) square feet in area.
      3.   Compatibility: The uses permitted in a planned unit development must
be of a type and so located so as to exercise no undue detrimental influence
upon surrounding properties.
      4.   Space Between Buildings: Space between buildings shall be subject to
approval during the review process.
      5.   Yards:
         a.   The required yards along the periphery of the PUD project shall
be at least equal in width or depth to that of the adjacent zoning district.
         b.   All other yards shall be subject to approval during the review
process.
      6.   Parking Requirements: Adequate, adjacent parking shall be provided
and in no event shall the parking be less than that provided for in
Chapter 13 of this title.
      7.   Traffic: Adequate provision shall be made to provide ingress and
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets. The
commission or council may require a professional traffic engineer to
investigate and submit a traffic study.
      8.   Other Standards: The planned unit development may depart from strict
conformance with the required density, dimension, area, height, bulk, use, and
other regulations for the standard zoning districts and other provisions of
this title to the extent specified in the preliminary land use and zoning plan
and documents authorizing the planned unit development so long as the planned
unit development project will not be detrimental to or endanger the public
health, safety, morals, comfort, or general welfare. All new construction shall
conform to city specifications and regulations.
   E.   Conditions And Guarantees: Prior to the granting of any planned unit
development, the council may stipulate such conditions and restrictions upon
the establishment, location, design, layout, height, density, construction,
maintenance, aesthetics, operation, and other elements of planned unit
development as deemed necessary for the protection of the public interest,
improvement of the development, protection of the adjacent area and to secure
compliance with the standards specified in this title. In all cases in which
planned unit developments are granted, the council shall require such evidence
and guarantees as it may deem necessary as proof that the conditions stipulated
in connection therewith are being and will be complied with. (Ord. 35-17, 10-
17-2017)
CHAPTER 6
NON-DEVELOPMENT CHARACTER AREA (DCA) ZONING DISTRICTS OVERLAY AND SPECIAL
DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Overlay Districts
11-6-2: Reserved
11-6-3: Downtown Master Plan (DMP) Overlay District
11-6-4: Utica Ridge Overlay District (UTICOD)
11-6-1: OVERLAY DISTRICTS:
   A.   Purpose: Overlay districts are used in combination with base districts
to modify or expand base district regulations. These districts adapt to the
special needs of areas of the city and further allow Bettendorf's zoning
ordinance to evolve as the planning and development needs and trends of
specific areas also change. The overlay districts are designed to achieve the
following objectives:
      1.   To recognize special conditions in specific parts of the city which
require specific regulations.
      2.   To provide for the protection of special features in the natural and
built environment of the city.
      3.   To allow for change and adaptability to different needs and trends
in land development.
      4.   To encourage comprehensive environmental planning in the city, and
to protect the integrity of vital city services such as the water supply and
parks.
      5.   To provide flexibility in development and to encourage innovative
design through comprehensively planned projects.
   B.   Establishment Of Districts: The following overlay districts are hereby
established.
      1.   Reserved.
      2.   DMP: Downtown Master Plan Overlay District.
      3.   UTICOD: Utica Ridge Overlay District (UTICOD). (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-
2017; amd. Ord. 06-24, 2-20-2024)
11-6-2: RESERVED:
11-6-3: DOWNTOWN MASTER PLAN (DMP) OVERLAY DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: This district is intended to establish a physically attractive
pattern of development in the city and to protect these areas from the negative
effects of incompatible development while preserving and expanding the tax base
of the city.
   B.   Applicability: The regulations set forth in this chapter, or set forth
elsewhere in this title when referred to in this chapter, are the regulations
in the DMP. This district shall be described as follows:
      1.   Commencing at the intersection of Grant Street, State Street, and
Sixth Street of the City of Bettendorf, Scott County, Iowa, which is the point
of beginning for the tract herein described; thence southerly to the
Mississippi River, thence easterly along the meanders of the Mississippi River
to the west line of Section 34-78-4; thence northerly along the west line of
Sections 34-78-4 and 27-78-4 to the northern R.O.W. line of the Iowa, Chicago,
and Eastern Railroad; thence westerly along the northern R.O.W. line of the
Iowa, Chicago, and Eastern Railroad to the intersection of 26th Street; thence
northerly to the intersection of 26th Street and State Street; thence westerly
to the intersection of State Street and Grant Street; thence westerly along
Grant Street to the intersection of Grant Street and 19th Street; thence
northerly to the intersection of 19th Street and Brown Street; thence westerly
to the intersection of Brown Street and 14th Street; thence northerly to the
intersection of 14th Street and Mississippi Boulevard; thence westerly to the
intersection of Mississippi Boulevard and 13th Street; thence southerly to the
intersection of 13th Street and Brown Street; thence westerly to the
intersection of Brown Street and 12th Street; thence southerly to the
intersection of 12th Street and Grant Street; thence westerly to the
intersection of Grant Street, State Street, and Sixth Street, the Point of
Beginning.
      2.   Prior to the issuance of a building permit for the construction of a
building, structure, or sign for any property within the DMP, the plans shall
be reviewed and approved by a design review committee whose membership shall
consist of the city planning and zoning commission (hereinafter referred to as
the commission) established as herein provided, to ensure that the building,
structure, or sign complies with the performance standards and guidelines
established herein.
         a.   Exceptions:
            (1)   Single-family and two-family dwellings and accessory
structures thereto are not subject to review.
            (2)   The review of public utility structures (except for public
utility buildings which are subject to architectural review) shall be limited
to requirements for berming and landscaping. Requirements may be extensive and
shall include a mix of plant materials having year-round effectiveness.
            (3)   Political signs, as enumerated in
Chapter 14 of this title.
            (4)   Temporary signs, which are in compliance with the regulations
enumerated in Chapter 14 of this title.
         b.   Authority:
            (1)   As part of the review of a final site plan, the commission
shall review the materials referenced in Subsection C.1. of this section and
make recommendations to the city council relative to the compliance of the
application with the criteria set forth in Subsection
11-6-3 G. of this chapter.
            (2)   For other construction subject to the provisions of this
chapter but not subject to final site plan approval, the commission shall
review the materials referenced in Subsection C.1. of this section and approve,
conditionally approve, continue, or deny any application, basing its decisions
on the criteria set forth in Subsection
11-6-3G of this chapter.
   C.   Procedure: In the interests of neighborhood harmony and courtesy, prior
to filing the materials required, developers are encouraged to schedule a
meeting with adjacent property owners and neighbors.
      1.   Prior to the preparation of final architectural drawings and prior
to the issuance of any building permit for any proposal, the applicant shall
submit the following information and materials:
         a.   The completed application form;
         b.   A dimensioned site plan, including the locations of any proposed
or existing buildings on the subject parcel and on surrounding parcels, if the
buildings are within (100') one hundred feet of the subject parcel;
         c.   A verifiable legal description or a land survey where deemed
necessary by the planning official;
         d.   A map showing the existing topography of the subject parcel and
the topography of other properties at two-foot contour intervals, extending one
hundred feet (100') from the subject parcel;
         d.   A preliminary grading plan showing before and after grades at two
(2)-foot contour intervals;
         f.   A landscape plan in conformance with Chapter 12 of this title;
         g.   Elevation drawings, in color and drawn to scale, of the front,
sides, rear, and roof lines of all proposed buildings or structures,
illustrating the appearance and treatment of required screening elements for
roof-mounted equipment. A second set of elevations (not colored) shall be
submitted on eight and one-half inch by eleven inch (8 ½ x 11") paper;
         h.   Samples of each type of exterior building materials, including
the color; and
         i.   Samples of the materials, including the color, along with scaled,
accurately-colored elevations, of any proposed sign and/or sign package.
      2.   Prior to the issuance of a building permit, the planning official
shall determine that the submitted plans for the building permit are in
substantial conformance with those approved as part of the final site plan, as
stated in Subsection
11-6-3 B.1. of this section or by the commission, as stated in Subsection
11-6-3 B.2. of this section, and that the time period for approvals has not
expired. The stamping of the plans and the signature of the planning official,
and the date of the signature shall indicate that the plans are in conformance.
      3.   Prior to any external change described below, including, but not
limited to, a remodeling or elevation alteration which includes changes in
materials or colors, the property owner or his or her designated representative
shall present the change for review to the planning official. The planning
official may approve a change to the color scheme of an existing building, a
building addition or structure, or a revised landscape plan based upon the
following criteria:
         a.   Building Addition Or Structure: The addition of an accessory
structure shall not substantially alter the appearance of the site as viewed
from off the site or be visually incompatible with the existing building or
structure when the modification consists of:
            (1)   An addition to an existing building or accessory structure of
one thousand (1,000) square feet or less; or
            (2)   If the increase in the area of coverage does not exceed
fifteen percent (15%), does not increase the number of stories, or propose
substantial changes to the building materials.
         b.   Landscaping:
            (1)   The quantity, density, and quality of the plant material is
increased and upgraded; and
            (2)   The changes reflect a substantial improvement of the plan.
Exterior changes not meeting the criteria of Subsections C.3.a. and C.3.b. of
this section shall be reviewed pursuant to the provisions of Subsection B of
this section.
      4.   Any conditions prescribed through the approval of the final site
plan or by the commission shall be considered an integral part of the
construction plans. The conditions shall be noted on all plans as may be
required by applicable city departments.
      5.   Any building, structure, or sign which has been approved,
constructed, or installed in accordance with the approval of a final site plan
or of the commission may be removed. However, it shall not be modified,
altered, or changed in any manner without additional review by the planning
official, who shall decide whether the proposed change shall need to be
reviewed by the design review committee.
      6.   Initiating construction or development prior to the issuance of
building permits or noncompliance with approved plans and conditions shall be
grounds for either stopping work on the project or denial of a certificate of
occupancy.
      7.   Upon completion, prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy, the property owner or general contractor shall certify in writing
that, to the best of his or her knowledge, the building, structure, and site
detail have been completed in accordance with the approved design and
applicable codes.
      8.   Lack of maintenance of any portion of an approved project approved
through the approval of a final site plan or by the commission shall constitute
a violation of this chapter.
   D.   Additional Provisions:
      1.   Petitions brought before the commission shall be considered in a
timely manner. Unless the applicant requests the commission to table the
application, it shall not be tabled for more than three consecutive meetings
(approximately ninety (90) days). After that time, the commission shall make a
recommendation to the city council.
      2.   In conjunction with its review of proposals pursuant to Subsection
11-6-3 B.2. of this section:
         a.   The commission shall not continue any application more than three
(3) regularly scheduled consecutive meetings unless the applicant requests
additional continuances. If the continuances are based on the petitioner's
failure to provide required information, the commission may make a decision on
the information available or it may return the petition to the party submitting
it for future resubmission.
         b.   Approvals by the commission shall be valid for a period of one
year from the date of approval by the commission or the city council. If no
building permit has been issued pursuant to the development of the approved
project within one year of approval, the approval shall expire.
         c.   In the event that an application is denied by the commission, the
commission shall reserve the right to refuse to consider the same proposal, as
determined by the planning official, for a period of one year. An applicant
desiring to reapply for consideration of the same proposal less than one year
from the date appearing on the previous application shall submit a letter
requesting the commission to reconsider its denial. Any request for
reconsideration must be based on new grounds not covered in the previous
application. If the reconsideration is approved, the applicant may then reapply
for the request, filing a new application with all attachments and paying the
applicable fee.
         d.   An applicant may appeal the determination of the planning
official that the proposal intended to be submitted is the same proposal by
submitting a letter to the commission. The planning official shall present the
basis of his or her determination and shall comment on the information
presented by the appellant. The commission shall uphold or reverse the
determination of the planning official.
   E.   Appeal:
      1.   The applicant for design review or the planning official may appeal
any decision of the commission to the city council by filing written notice of
appeal and any applicable appeal fee with the city clerk within ten (10)
working days of the date of the commission decision. Notice of such appeal and
the date for its consideration by the city council shall be published once, not
less than seven days prior to the council meeting at which such appeal is to be
heard.
      2.   The city clerk shall set the date for hearing the appeal within
forty (40) days of the appeal being filed.
      3.   The city council shall base its decision to affirm, modify, or
reverse the decision of the commission on the information and materials
previously submitted to the commission, the minutes of the commission, and such
additional evidence as the parties or public wish the council to consider.
   F.   Violations And Penalties: It shall be unlawful to construct, erect,
install, alter, change, maintain, or permit the construction, erection,
installation, alteration, change, maintenance of any building, structure, sign,
wall, or landscaping, or use or permit the use of any lot or other land
contrary to, or in violation of, any of the provisions of this chapter.
   G.   Performance Standards: All uses and buildings permitted within the DMP
shall comply in total with the following performance standards:
      1.   Open Space And Landscaping Requirements: Minimum site landscaping
requirements for the downtown and riverfront corridor area are established in:
The City of Bettendorf, Iowa Downtown Master Plan Update and Streetscape Plan,
February 2016. The "Design Standards: Landscape Guidelines" section of that
plan are hereby included in and made a part of the zoning requirements under
this title.
      2.   Architectural Standards: Minimum building architectural standards
for the downtown and riverfront corridor area are established in: The City of
Bettendorf, Iowa Downtown Master Plan Update and Streetscape Plan, February
2016. The "Design Standards: Architectural Character and Materials" section of
that plan are hereby included in and made a part of the zoning requirements
under this title.
      3.   Parking: The provisions contained within Chapter 13, "Off Street
Parking and Loading," of this title shall apply and govern in all zoning
districts. In all cases, parking lots shall be constructed with concrete or
asphalt curbing. In addition, parking design standards for the downtown and
riverfront corridor area are established in: The City of Bettendorf, Iowa
Downtown Master Plan Update and Streetscape Plan, February 2016. The "Design
Standards: Parking" section of that plan is hereby included in and made a part
of the zoning requirements under this title.
      4.   Parking, Site Specific Principles, and Streetscape Improvements:
Parking, site specific principles, and streetscape improvements standards for
the downtown and riverfront corridor area are established in: The City of
Bettendorf, Iowa Downtown Master Plan Update and Streetscape Plan, February
2016. The "Design Standards: Parking, Site Specific Principles, and Typologies
for Streetscape Improvements" sections of that plan are hereby included in and
made a part of the zoning requirements under this title.
      5.   Land Use: Recommended future land uses for the downtown and
riverfront corridor area are established in: The City of Bettendorf, Iowa
Downtown Master Plan Update and Streetscape Plan, February 2016. The "Overall
Master Plan Concept and Districts: Development Character" sections for each DMP
subdistrict are hereby included in and made a part of the requirements under
this title.
      6.   Restricted Uses: There are some uses that require additional
restrictions within the DMP to lessen their negative impact and make them more
compatible with the goals of this title. The following uses are restricted:
         a.   Class E Liquor Licensed Establishments:
            (1)   No establishment which holds a Class E liquor control
license, as defined in Iowa Code Section 123.30(3)(e), shall be located within
one-fourth mile (1,320 feet) of another existing establishment which holds a
Class E liquor control license in the DMP.
            (2)   Any existing establishment which holds a Class E liquor
control license established prior to July 21, 2015, that is nonconforming with
regard to the separation requirement between said uses, may continue unless the
following conditions occur, then nonconforming rights cease and the use must
convert to a conforming use: The liquor license lapses, is revoked, or is
discontinued for a period of one year.
            (3)   The zoning board of adjustment shall have no authority to
waive this provision or to authorize any variation thereto.
         b.   Automobile Salesroom or Showroom, or New or Used Car Sales or
Vehicle Storage Lots: Design principles shall be incorporated into the design
of auto dealerships which minimize the unattractive aspects of large areas of
parked cars. One car deep display areas along arterial and collector streets
and freeways shall be permitted. Display rows shall be screened from public
rights-of-way with an eighteen-inch (18") earth berm. Additional rows of cars
shall be separated from the initial row by a shrubbery hedge that completely
conceals the view of these additional rows of cars from the public right-of-
way. Five percent (5%) of the balance of the parking lot shall be landscaped
and permeable in the form of islands and peninsulas. Signs applied to, located
in, or painted onto vehicle bodies or windshields on cars in the display area
are prohibited with the exception of factory invoices. The use of pennants and
tinsel is prohibited. Elevated or tilted vehicle display platforms are
prohibited. An earth berm or other form of landscape buffer shall be located
around the sides and rear of the property to shield the view of stored cars
from adjoining residences and streets, if any. Berming and landscaping may be
required to shield the view from commercial areas depending on sightlines.
Lighting design shall be integrated with the design of the dealership.
Nonglare, cutoff luminaires shall be required so that lighting does not spill
over onto adjacent properties. The leasing or renting of trucks intended for
short-term lease of less than seven (7) days shall be prohibited either as a
primary or accessory use.
         c.   Public Garages, Services Stations, Car Washes, Repair Shops, Auto
Parts Installation Shops, Auto Service Malls, And Other Similar Uses: Building
forms and materials shall emphasize masonry and be compatible with nearby
retail buildings. Canopies over pumps and their supports shall have no
lettering, logos, or striping, and shall be integrated with the building
design. The use of pennants and tinsel is prohibited. Car wash structures shall
be a minimum of fifty feet (50') from any residential property line or
residential zone. Outdoor storage shall be confined to areas enclosed by
masonry walls. Stacks of tires, oil cans, and promotional items are not
permitted. Garage bays shall be concealed from view from adjacent streets and
parking lots whenever possible. The leasing or renting of trucks for short-term
lease of less than seven (7) days shall be prohibited either as a primary or an
accessory use.
         d.   Outdoor Retailing: Outdoor retailing areas, such as garden
centers, shall be orderly and attractive, with low screening walls concealing
merchandise, except plant materials, from view. Additional landscaping as shown
in Chapter 12, "Landscaping," of this title and berming may be required with
such uses.
         e.   Outdoor Vending Machines: For the purpose of this chapter,
outdoor vending machines shall also be considered outdoor retailing. Such
vending machines shall be screened from public rights-of-way.
         f.   Gas stations (limited to within one thousand feet [1,000'] of the
paved portion of I-74, excluding on and off ramps and adjacent to State Street
and Grant Streets).
      7.   Prohibited Uses: In furtherance of the intent of the DMP as set
forth in Section
11-6-3 A., certain uses are prohibited in the DMP. The following uses are
prohibited in the DMP, as well as those uses prohibited in the underlying
zoning districts:
         a.   Tobacco, vape shops, and/or CBD shops
         b.   Tattoo/piercing parlors
         c.   Storage units
         d.   Automotive sales
         e.   Automotive services and body repair
         f.   Pawn shops
         g.   Title loan or "quick cash" operations
         h.   Storage/staging yards or service vehicle parking of any type
         i.   Adult entertainment venues.
         j.   Permanent buildings in which fifty percent (50%) or more of the
retailer’s retail floor space is allocated to the sale or display of consumer
fireworks, or in which fifty percent (50%) or more of annual retail sales are
from the sale of consumer fireworks.
      8.   Existing uses as of March 1, 2005, are allowed to continue as
nonconforming uses to the restrictions set forth in Section
11-6-3 G.6. established in this overlay district. However, no new use nor the
expansion of any existing use shall be allowed unless such use is allowed
within the November 2002 Bettendorf, Iowa, Future Land Use Map and conforms to
the regulations herein. Existing uses as of January 7, 2020, are allowed to
continue as nonconforming uses to the restrictions set forth in
11-6-3 G.7.
   H.   Site And Structure Requirements: All requirements of the underlying
zoning districts concerning building height, lot area, and yard depths shall
remain applicable with the following exceptions:
      1.   Planned Complex Park: There shall be no prohibition of the multiple
use of a planned complex park on a minimum lot, provided that the control of
those facilities and uses which must be installed and maintained for the joint
use of the users of the property shall be legally enforceable and acceptable to
the city.
      2.   Variances:
         a.   The zoning board of adjustment may grant variances in cases where
the above setback regulations unduly impact the developability of any lot
subdivided for development prior to the effective date hereof. The board may
consider the feasibility of complying with the additional setback requirements
based upon existing lot size, compatibility with adjacent development, and
locational and topographical factors.
         b.   The zoning board of adjustment may grant variances for buildings
to exceed their corresponding district height regulation up to a maximum height
of one hundred fifty feet (150'). In order to qualify, the applicant shall
provide for adequate spacing between existing and proposed buildings in order
to minimize blockage of views from public and private buildings and places and
to minimize casting of shadows on public places. Applicants shall provide
elevations and shadow diagrams which show the degree, if any, of view blockage
or the casting of shadows that would occur. The board of adjustment may limit
or condition the amount of extra height and bulk granted in order to minimize
the blocking of views from public and private places and to casting of shadows
on public places.
   I.   Environmental Performance Standards: Complete abatement, elimination,
or reduction of all generally offensive characteristics such as odors, gases,
noise, vibration, pollution of air or water or soil, excessive lighting
intensity, hazardous activity, etc. which may be detrimental to the general
welfare of the community shall be accomplished. The standards for compliance
with this subsection shall be as follows:
      1.   Air Pollution: The use shall not emit any smoke, dust, odorous
gases, or other matter in such quantities as to be readily detectable at any
point beyond the perimeter of the site area.
      2.   Noise: The use shall not include noise which is discernible without
instruments on any adjoining lot or property.
      3.   Vibration: The use shall not include vibration which is discernible
without instruments on any adjoining lot or property.
      4.   Site Lighting And Glare: All lights, other than streetlights, shall
be so situated and installed as to reflect away from adjacent streets and
residential areas. Light and pole designs shall be compatible with the overall
design of the building(s) and site. In large parking lots, poles are to be
located within the landscape islands. The scale of the parking area shall be
considered in the selection of pole height and spacing. Pole height shall
decrease, where possible, near property lines and in low intensity use areas to
further reduce glare. Uplighting trees and fountains, accent lighting on shrubs
and entrances, and silhouette lighting may be used to create special effects.
      5.   Traffic Hazard: The use shall not involve any activity substantially
increasing the movement of traffic on public streets to a point that capacity
and safety limitations are exceeded unless procedures are instituted to limit
traffic hazards and congestion.
      6.   Stormwater Detention: The standard stormwater detention regulations
shall prevail.
      7.   Erosion Control: The standard erosion control regulations shall
prevail.
      8.   Overtax Public Utilities and Facilities: The use shall not involve
any activity substantially increasing the burden on any public facilities or
utilities unless provisions are made for necessary adjustments.
      9.   Utility Installation: All utilities provided as new installation
shall be underground and comply in full with city regulations.
   J.   Signage Requirements: Signage materials shall be permanent or long
lasting in quality. The lighting of signs shall be nonintrusive with
backlighting or other methods of indirect lighting required. Project and
business identification signage shall be limited solely to wall signs, monument
signs, ground signs, and awnings.
      1.   Wall Signs: Wall signs shall be limited in size by the regulations
of the underlying district. Signs painted on a wall shall be prohibited.
      2.   Freestanding Ground Signs: For the purposes of this chapter, a
"freestanding ground sign" shall mean a sign placed directly on the ground the
allowed height of which shall be determined by land use. All such signs shall
have monument-type bases of masonry construction. A comparable alternate base
material may be used upon written approval of the commission where signage
requires final site plan approval. Sign setbacks shall be equivalent to those
found in the underlying zoning district.
         a.   Large Retail Stores And Shopping Centers: For the purposes of
this chapter, a "large retail store or shopping center" shall be defined as a
single retail store or multiple store center located on a site that is eight
acres or more in size. Such store or center shall be allowed one ground sign a
maximum of twenty feet (20') in height for center identification with a maximum
sign area of four hundred (400) square feet. There shall be a minimum setback
requirement of fifteen feet (15') from the property line or one-half the
distance of the required yard, whichever is less. Center identification signs
can state the name of the shopping center and a major tenant or tenants.
         b.   Small Retail Stores And Shopping Centers: For purposes of this
chapter, a "small retail store or shopping center" shall be defined as any
single retail store or multiple store center located on a site that is less
than eight (8) acres in size. A retail store shall also be limited to those
structures in which the primary use is for retail sales to the public. Such
store or tenant shall be limited to one ground sign a maximum of fifteen feet
(15') in height with a maximum sign area of one hundred (100) square feet.
There shall be a minimum setback requirement of fifteen feet (15') from the
property line or one-half the distance of the required yard, whichever is less.
         c.   Travel Related Uses:
            (1)   For purpose of this chapter, "travel related uses" are those
uses that are used primarily by the motoring public and are limited to hotel/
motel, service or gas stations, or restaurants. Such uses shall be limited to
one freestanding ground sign fifteen feet (15') in height with a maximum sign
area of one hundred (100) square feet.
            (2)   The board of adjustment may, at its discretion, with the
approval of a final site plan, allow an increase in sign height. In such
instances, the fifteen foot (15') ground sign may be increased in height. Any
increase shall be based on sign visibility at that location and in no case
shall exceed forty five feet (45') in height.
            (3)   All other signage shall consist of building-mounted signage
consistent with the regulations of the underlying zoning district.
         d.   All Other Commercial, Industrial, And Institutional Uses: All
other commercial, industrial, and institutional uses shall be limited to one
freestanding ground sign not to exceed six feet (6') in height with the maximum
area determined by the zoning district. All other signage shall comply with the
regulations of the underlying zoning district.
         e.   Subdivision And Apartment Complex Signs: Subdivision, townhouse,
condominium, and apartment complex signs, regardless of zoning district, shall
be limited to monument signs with a maximum height of four feet (4'), a maximum
sign area of thirty two (32) square feet, and a minimum front yard setback of
five feet (5').
         f.   Tinsel And Pennants: The use of tinsel and pennants or other
attention getting devices other than approved signage are prohibited in the DMP
other than for a thirty (30) day period immediately following the granting of
an occupancy permit for a new business. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017; amd. Ord. 01-
20, 1-7-2020; Ord. 03-22, 3-15-2022)
11-6-4: UTICA RIDGE OVERLAY DISTRICT (UTICOD):
   A.   Intent: This district is intended to establish a physically attractive
pattern of development in the city and to protect these areas from the negative
effects of incompatible development while preserving and expanding the tax base
of the city.
   B.   Applicability: This district shall be described as follows: West of the
centerline of Utica Ridge Road, south of the centerline of Tanglefoot Lane, and
extending to the Department of Transportation (I-74) right-of-way on the west
and south border.
   C.   Use Regulations: This Section shall not apply to single-family detached
homes or single-family subdivisions.
   D.   Design Review Committee: Prior to the issuance of a building permit for
the construction of a building or structure for any property within the UTICOD,
the plans shall be reviewed and approved by a design review committee whose
membership shall consist of the city Planning and Zoning Commission
(hereinafter referred to as the commission) established as herein provided, to
ensure that the building or structure complies with the performance standards
and guidelines established herein.
      1.   Exceptions:
         a.   Single-family dwellings and accessory structures thereto are not
subject to review.
         b.   The review of public utility structures (except for public
utility buildings which are subject to architectural review) shall be limited
to requirements for berming and landscaping. Requirements may be extensive and
shall include a mix of plant materials having year-round effectiveness.
      2.   Authority:
         a.   As part of the review of a final site plan, the commission shall
review the materials referenced in subsection
11-6-4 D.3. of this section and make recommendations to the city council
relative to the compliance of the application with the criteria set forth in
subsection
11-6-4 E. of this section.
         b.   For other construction subject to the provisions of this chapter
but not subject to final site plan approval, the commission shall review the
materials referenced in subsection
11-6-4 D.3. of this section and approve, conditionally approve, continue, or
deny any application, basing its decisions on the criteria set forth in
subsection
11-6-4 E. of this section.
      3.   Procedure: In the interests of neighborhood harmony and courtesy,
prior to filing the materials required, developers are encouraged to schedule a
meeting with adjacent property owners and neighbors.
         a.   Prior to the preparation of final architectural drawings and
prior to the issuance of any building permit for any proposal, the applicant
shall submit the following information and materials:
            (1)   The completed application form;
            (2)   A dimensioned site plan, including the locations of any
proposed or existing buildings on the subject parcel and on surrounding
parcels, if the buildings are within one hundred feet (100') to the subject
parcel;
            (3)   A verifiable legal description or a land survey where deemed
necessary by the planning official;
            (4)   A map showing the existing topography of the subject parcel
and the topography of other properties at two foot (2') contour intervals,
extending one hundred feet (100') from the subject parcel;
            (5)   A preliminary grading plan showing before and after grades at
two foot (2') contour intervals;
            (6)   A landscape plan in conformance with chapter 12 of this
title;
            (7)   Elevation drawings, in color and drawn to scale, of the
front, sides, rear, and roof lines of all proposed buildings or structures,
illustrating the appearance and treatment of required screening elements for
roof mounted equipment. A second set of elevations (not colored) shall be
submitted on eight and one-half inch by eleven inch (8 ½" x 11") paper;
            (8)   Samples of each type of exterior building materials,
including the color;
            (9)   Samples of the materials, including the color, along with
scaled, accurately colored elevations, of any proposed sign and/or sign
package.
         b.   Prior to the issuance of a building permit, the planning official
shall determine that the submitted plans for the building permit are in
substantial conformance with those approved as part of the final site plan, as
stated in subsection D.2.a. of this section or by the commission, as stated in
subsection D.2.b. of this section, and that the time period for approvals has
not expired.
The stamping of the plans and the signature of the planning official, and the
date of the signature shall indicate that the plans are in conformance.
         c.   Prior to any external change described below, including, but not
limited to, a remodeling or elevation alteration which includes changes in
materials or colors, the property owner or his or her designated representative
shall present the change for review to the planning official. The planning
official may approve a change to the color scheme of an existing building, a
building addition or structure, or a revised landscape plan based upon the
following criteria:
            (1)   Building Addition Or Structure: The addition of an accessory
structure shall not substantially alter the appearance of the site as viewed
from off the site or be visually incompatible with the existing building or
structure when the modification consists of:
               (a)   An addition to an existing building or accessory structure
of one thousand (1,000) square feet or less; or
               (b)   If the increase in the area of coverage does not exceed
fifteen percent (15%), does not increase the number of stories, or propose
substantial changes to the building materials.
            (2)   Landscaping:
               (a)   The quantity, density, and quality of the plant material
is increased and upgraded; and
               (b)   The changes reflect a substantial improvement of the plan.
            (3)   Exterior changes not meeting the criteria of subsections
D.3.c.(1) and D.3.c.(2) of this section shall be reviewed pursuant to the
provisions of subsection D.2. of this section.
         d.   Any conditions prescribed through the approval of the final site
plan or by the commission shall be considered an integral part of the
construction plans. The conditions shall be noted on all plans as may be
required by applicable city departments.
         e.   Any building, structure, or sign which has been approved,
constructed, or installed in accordance with the approval of a final site plan
or of the commission may be removed. However, it shall not be modified,
altered, or changed in any manner without additional review by the planning
official, who shall decide whether the proposed change shall need to be
reviewed by the design review committee.
         f.   Initiating construction or development prior to the issuance of
building permits or noncompliance with approved plans and conditions shall be
grounds for either stopping work on the project or denial of a certificate of
occupancy.
         g.   Upon completion, prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy, the property owner or general contractor shall certify in writing
that, to the best of his or her knowledge, the building, structure, and site
detail have been completed in accordance with the approved design and
applicable codes.
         h.   Lack of maintenance of any portion of an approved project
approved through the approval of a final site plan or by the commission shall
constitute a violation of this code.
      4.   Additional Provisions:
         a.   Petitions brought before the commission shall be considered in a
timely manner. Unless the applicant requests the commission to table the
application, it shall not be tabled for more than three (3) consecutive
meetings (approximately ninety [90] days). After that time, the commission
shall make a recommendation to the city council.
         b.   In conjunction with its review of proposals pursuant to
subsection D.2.b. of this section:
            (1)   The commission shall not continue any application more than
three (3) regularly scheduled consecutive meetings unless the applicant
requests additional continuances. If the continuances are based on the
petitioner's failure to provide required information, the commission may make a
decision on the information available or it may return the petition to the
party submitting it for future resubmission.
            (2)   Approvals by the commission shall be valid for a period of
one year from the date of approval by the commission or the city council. If no
building permit has been issued pursuant to the development of the approved
project within one year of approval, the approval shall expire.
            (3)   In the event that an application is denied by the commission,
the commission shall reserve the right to refuse to consider the same proposal,
as determined by the planning official, for a period of one year. An applicant
desiring to reapply for consideration of the same proposal less than one year
from the date appearing on the previous application shall submit a letter
requesting the commission to reconsider its denial. Any request for
reconsideration must be based on new grounds not covered in the previous
application. If the reconsideration is approved, the applicant may then reapply
for the request, filing a new application with all attachments and paying the
applicable fee. An applicant may appeal the determination of the planning
official that the proposal intended to be submitted is the same proposal by
submitting a letter to the commission. The planning official shall present the
basis of his or her determination and shall comment on the information
presented by the appellant. The commission shall uphold or reverse the
determination of the planning official.
         c.   Appeal:
            (1)   The applicant for design review or the planning official may
appeal any decision of the commission to the city council by filing written
notice of appeal and any applicable appeal fee with the city clerk within ten
(10) working days of the date of the commission decision. Notice of such appeal
and the date for its consideration by the city council shall be published once,
not less than seven (7) days prior to the council meeting at which such appeal
is to be heard.
            (2)   The city clerk shall set the date for hearing the appeal
within forty (40) days of the appeal being filed.
            (3)   The city council shall base its decision to affirm, modify,
or reverse the decision of the commission on the information and materials
previously submitted to the commission, the minutes of the commission and such
additional evidence as the parties or public wish the council to consider.
         d.   Violations And Penalties: It shall be unlawful to construct,
erect, install, alter, change, maintain, or permit the construction, erection,
installation, alteration, change, maintenance of any building, structure, sign,
wall, or landscaping, or use or permit the use of any lot or other land
contrary to, or in violation of, any of the provisions of this section.
   E.   Performance Standards: All uses and buildings permitted within the
UTICOD shall comply in total with the following performance standards:
      1.   Architectural Standards: Buildings within the UTICOD shall be
constructed of quality materials that have strength and permanence.
"Permanence" means that buildings will age without deteriorating, given a
minimum level of maintenance. The development shall recognize the strength and
permanency of stone, brick, concrete, steel, and glass as opposed to the
frailty of light gauge sheet metal and constant maintenance of wood veneer. The
following tables show the ratios and types of materials permitted in the Utica
Ridge Road overlay district:
   Table 11-6-4E1
Exterior Building Materials (Commercial/ Residential) Front Rear Sides
Exterior Building
Materials         Front               Rear                Sides
(Commercial/
Residential)
Brick             Permitted           Permitted           Permitted
EIFS (exterior    Permitted 50%       Permitted 50%       Permitted 50%
insulation and    maximum             maximum             maximum
finish system)
                  Permitted limit 25% Permitted limit 25% Permitted limit 25%
Glass             outward viewing     outward viewing     outward viewing
                  windows             windows             windows
Split-faced block
(if appearance is Permitted 25%       Permitted 50%       Permitted 50%
like brick or     maximum             maximum             maximum
stone)
Steel             Permitted 25%       Permitted 25%       Permitted 25%
                  maximum             maximum             maximum
Stone             Permitted           Permitted           Permitted
Stucco            Permitted 50%       Permitted 50%       Permitted 50%
                  maximum             maximum             maximum
 
Note: Materials listed in this table need to be tinted so that they do not fade
or require painting. Above a two-story building: Builder may use more than
fifty percent (50%) of EIFS, split-faced block, or glass as long as appearance
of these materials resembles the materials used on the first two (2) floors.
For every one hundred feet (100') of building frontage, a portion of the
building must be recessed or protruding four feet (4') from the previous
building frontage. At least two (2) different colors or textures must be used
for the building's surface. All HV AC on any building shall be screened from
view.
   Table 11-6-4E2
Exterior Building Materials (Industrial/ Warehouse) Front Rear Sides
Exterior Building
Materials         Front               Rear                Sides
(Industrial/
Warehouse)
Brick             Permitted           Permitted           Permitted
EIFS (exterior    Permitted 50%       Permitted 50%       Permitted 50%
insulation and    maximum             maximum             maximum
finish system)
                  Permitted limit 25% Permitted limit 25% Permitted limit 25%
Glass             outward viewing     outward viewing     outward viewing
                  windows             windows             windows
Split-faced block
(if appearance is Permitted 25%       Permitted 50%       Permitted 50%
like brick or     maximum             maximum             maximum
stone)
Steel             Permitted 25%       Permitted 50%       Permitted 5% maximum
                  maximum             maximum
Stone             Permitted           Permitted           Permitted
Stucco            Permitted 50%       Permitted 50%       Permitted 50%
                  maximum             maximum             maximum
 
Note: Materials listed in this table need to be tinted so that they do not fade
or require painting. At least two (2) different colors or textures must be used
for the building's surface. Above a two-story building: Builder may use more
than fifty percent (50%) of EIFS, split-faced block or glass as long as
appearance of these materials resembles the materials used on the first two (2)
floors. All HVAC on any building shall be screened from view. For every one
hundred feet (100') of the front portion of the building, the exterior must be
recessed or protruding four feet (4') from the previous building frontage.
The planning and zoning commission may consider other ratios for exterior
materials if the commission determines that the intent of subsection A of this
section is met.
Buildings within the district shall use a consistent design theme or palate for
site layout and building architecture. Buildings shall further be designed to
utilize similar colors, materials and textures, as well as repeating patterns,
rhythms, and proportions found within the architecture of other buildings in
the district to achieve unity of design.
   F.   Municipal Infraction: Any person, firm, partnership, or corporation,
whether acting alone or in concert with any other, who violates this chapter
shall be guilty of a municipal infraction and shall be penalized as set forth
in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
CHAPTER 7
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS: SPECIFIC TO DISTRICTS
   (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 8
DEVELOPMENT CHARACTER AREAS (DCA)
AND PERMITTED USE TABLE
SECTION:
11-8-1:    Purpose
11-8-2:    Establishment of DCAs
11-8-3:    Range of Permitted Uses in Each DCA
11-8-4:    Supplemental Use Regulations
11-8-5:    Permitted Use Tables
11-8-1: PURPOSE:
Development Character Areas (DCAs) are established in the zoning regulations to
promote mixed-use neighborhoods, as recommended in the city's comprehensive
plan. The permitted use table identifies land uses that may be compatible
within a close proximity, subject to review as described in Chapter 15 and
Appendix 1. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-8-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF DCAS:
The following development character areas are hereby established. These DCAs
correspond to land use districts established by the Bettendorf Comprehensive
Plan, as described in the preamble to this TIDCA names include:
   A.   ULI: Urban-Low Intensity.
   B.   UMI: Urban-Medium Intensity.
   C.   UHI: Urban-High Intensity. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-8-3: RANGE OF PERMITTED USES IN EACH DCA:
   A.   Within DCAs in Bettendorf, different uses are permitted, subject to
conformance with individual DCA intensity limits as detailed in Chapter 9 of
this title and review of compatibility as detailed in Appendix 1. The following
table indicates the range of permitted uses in each DCA, as described in the
comprehensive plan.
 
                       A mix of complementary uses, including mostly single
Urban-Low Intensity    family housing, attached housing, schools, small parks
                       and churches, and neighborhood retail or mixed use.
                       A mix of complementary uses, including single family
                       housing, multi-family housing, schools, mid-sized parks
Urban-Medium Intensity and churches, commercial and mixed use. Amenities such
                       as parks, plazas and quality streetscapes should be more
                       prevalent than in ULI areas.
                       A mix of complementary uses, including multi-family
                       residential, large offices, medical buildings, regional
                       commercial, limited industrial, institutional uses such
                       as churches, schools, or hospitals, and other regional
Urban-High Density     attractors. Residential uses range from townhomes/
                       rowhouses up to apartment towers. Parking garages or
                       public parking lots may be found in these areas. Higher
                       levels of urban amenities are used to offset the area's
                       intensity level.
 
   B.   In the comprehensive plan section evaluating future residential land
needs, the plan identifies the following goal for city-wide residential land
use mix:
      1.   Sixty-five percent (65%) low density (mostly single-family
detached).
      2.   Fifteen percent (15%) medium density (e.g. townhomes).
      3.   Twenty percent (20%) high density (apartments),
   C.   To achieve this city-wide housing mix, Bettendorf's future development
areas should be developed with a housing mix consistent with these percentages.
The following table indicates the housing mix ranges that are desirable in each
DCA. To see how a proposed small subdivision plat fits within the broader DCA
context, all development proposals must include a development concept for a
minimum of a twenty (20)-acre tract. The percentage totals in the table below
do not govern nonresidential uses permitted in each DCA.
DCA DESIRABLE HOUSING MIX
DCA                    DESIRABLE HOUSING MIX
                       Single-family detached:            Maximum 80-100%
Urban-Low Intensity    Attached dwellings (bi-attached,   Maximum 0-20%
                       townhomes):
                       Single-family detached:            Maximum 30-50%
                      Attached dwellings (bi-attached,   Minimum 20-35%
Urban-Medium Intensity townhomes):
                       Multi-family dwellings (townhomes, Minimum 20-35%
                       apartments):
                       Single-family detached:            Maximum 0-10%
                      Attached dwellings (bi-attached,   Minimum 30-60%
Urban-High Density     townhomes):
                       Multi-family dwellings (townhomes, Minimum 30-60%
                       apartments):
 
(Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-8-4: SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS:
Certain permitted uses require satisfaction of specific requirements in order
to function successfully in their urban or rural contexts. These supplemental
requirements are set forth in Chapter 11 of this title. These requirements are
cross-referenced in the "supplementary regulations" column of the permitted use
table. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-8-5: PERMITTED USE TABLES:
Table 11-8-5A Permitted Use Table
 Use TypesZoning Districts
           ULI UMI UHI
 Use Types            Zoning Districts
                       ULI UMI UHI
Agricultural Uses   
Horticulture           P   P   P
Crop Production        P   P   P
Animal Production             
Livestock Sales               
Residential Uses   
Single-Family Detached P   P   P
Single-Family Attached P   P   P
Duplex                 P   P   P
Townhouse              P   P   P
Multiple-Family        P   P   P
Downtown Residential   P   P   P
Live/Work Dwelling     P   P   P
Group Residential      P   P   P
Mobile Home Park              
Civic Uses   
Administration         P   P   P
Cemetery                      
Clubs (Recreational)   P   P   P
Clubs (Social)         P   P   P
College/University     P   P   P
Convalescent Services  P   P   P
Cultural Services      P   P   P
Day Care (Limited)     P   P   P
Day Care (General)     P   P   P
Detention Facilities          
Emergency Residential  P   P   P
Group Care Facility    P   P   P
Family Home            P   P   P
Guidance Services      P   P   P
Health Care            P   P   P
Hospital                     P
Maintenance Facility          
Park and Recreation    P   P   P
Postal Facilities      P   P   P
Primary Education      P   P   P
Public Assembly              P
Religious Assembly     P   P   P
Safety Services        P   P   P
Secondary Education    P   P   P
Utilities              P   P   P
Office Uses   
General Offices        P   P   P
Financial Services     P   P   P
Medical Offices        P   P   P
 
Table 11-8-5B Permitted Use Table
Use Types Zoning Districts
          ULI UMI UHI
Use Types                               Zoning Districts
                                        ULI UMI UHI
Commercial Uses   
Adult Entertainment                            
Ag Sales/Service                               
Auto Auction Lots                              
Auto Rental/Sales                          P   P
Auto Services                           P   P   P
Body Repair                                    
Equip Rental/Sales                             
Equipment Repair                               
Bed and Breakfast/Short-term Rental            
Business Support Services                  P   P
Business/Trade School                         P
Campground                                     
Commercial Rec (Controlled Impact)      P   P   P
Commercial Rec (High Impact)                   
Communication Service                      P   P
Construction Sale/Service                      
Consumer Service                           P   P
Convenience Storage                            
Food Sales (Convenience, Limited Gas)   P   P   P
Food Sales (Convenience, Unlimited Gas)    P   P
Food Sales (Limited)                    P   P   P
Food Sales (General)                       P   P
Funeral Service, No Crematory              P   P
Funeral Service, with Crematory                
Gaming Facilities                              
Kennels                                    P   P
Laundry Services                        P   P   P
Liquor Sales                               P   P
Lodging                                    P   P
Pawnshop                                   P   P
Personal Services                       P   P   P
Pet Services                               P   P
Personal Improvement                    P   P   P
RV Storage                                     
Research Services                             P
Restaurants (Neighborhood)              P   P   P
Restaurants (General)                      P   P
Restaurants (Drive-thru)                   P   P
Retail Services (Limited)               P   P   P
Retail Services (Large)                    P   P
Retail Services (Mass)                     P   P
Stables                                        
Surplus Sales                                  
Bar                                        P   P
Trade Services                             P   P
Travel Centers                             P   P
Truck Stops                                    
Vehicle Storage (Short-term)                   
Veterinary Services (General)              P   P
Veterinary Services (Large)                    
Parking Uses   
Off-Street Parking                      P   P   P
Parking Structure                          P   P
 
Table 11-8-5C Permitted Use Table
Use Types Zoning Districts
          ULI UMI UHI
Use Types                     Zoning Districts
                              ULI UMI UHI
Industrial Uses                      
Agricultural Industry                
Construction Yards                   
Custom Manufacturing                P
Junkyards                            
Light Industry                      P
General Industry                     
Heavy Industry                       
Recycling Collection                 
Recycling Processing                 
Resource Extraction                  
Vehicle Storage (Long-term)          
Warehousing (Office Records)        P
Warehousing (Enclosed)*             P
Warehousing (Open)*                  
Transportation Uses                  
Aviation (General)                   
Aviation (Private)                   
Railroad Facilities                  
Transportation Terminal          P   P
Truck Terminal                       
Miscellaneous Uses                   
Alternative Energy Production    P   P
Amateur Radio Tower           P   P   P
Communications Tower             P   P
Construction Batch Plant             
Landfill (Non-Putrescible)           
Landfill (Putrescible)               
WECS                                 
 
(Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
CHAPTER 9
DEVELOPMENT CHARACTER AREAS (DCA) PURPOSE AND DEVELOPMENT PARAMETERS
SECTION:
   
11-9-1:   DCA Development Parameters
   
11-9-2:   Guide to Site Development Regulators
   
11-9-3:   ULI Urban - Low Intensity DCA
   
11-9-4:   UMI Urban - Medium Intensity DCA
   
11-9-5:   UHI Urban - High Intensity DCA
11-9-1: DCA DEVELOPMENT PARAMETERS:
   A.   A primary advantage of the DCA framework is its ability to integrate
different land uses. In the DCA framework, designated areas are in multiple-use
categories. Within mixed-use development, uses may be integrated in two ways:
horizontally and/or vertically. Horizontal integration keeps individual
building purposes separate but relates multiple buildings on a single site
harmoniously to each other. Vertical integration puts more than one use on one
or multiple floors in the same building. In order to operationalize the DCAs to
guide development as described in the comprehensive plan, the purpose or intent
of each DCA must established. The purpose statement provides the link between
the zoning ordinance DCAs and the comprehensive plan. In addition, the
following development characteristics must be defined for each DCA.
      1.   Use - Range Of Permitted Uses In Each DCA (Chapter 8): Because this
is a mixed-use approach to development, the ranges of permitted uses are quite
wide. However, as indicated under Subsection
11-9-1 A.4. Compatibility, all proposed uses must be evaluated. The pattern of
development that has occurred surrounding the subject property is examined as
other characteristics of the subject property are considered to make a
determination regarding a request for an amendment change.
      2.   Intensity - Form And Scale Standards And Limitations: The DCA
framework designates how much development occurs in an area and how that
development affects its neighbors. This is measured by intensity and/or density
of development. In residential areas, intensity is measured by dwelling units
per acre. For other uses, intensity is measured by Floor Area Ratio or FAR,
calculated by dividing building area by site area. Other factors, like the
amount of traffic a project generates or how it affects its neighbors also help
determine intensity. Performance standards (operations) also measure a variety
of externalities that are indicators of intensity of an ongoing or proposed use
found on differently zoned parcels.
      3.   Form - How The DCA Is Laid Out:
         a.   Includes the street pattern, the type of infrastructure required,
how buildings relate to each other (e.g., are buildings close together or
separated?) and the relation of buildings to the street. Form also includes the
scale of the buildings - the length, width, and number of stories. The degree
to which buildings in an area are similar to each other in terms of these
"form" characteristics impacts the perceptions of compatibility, and therefore
market value. Form requirements include building setbacks, height standards,
etc.
         b.   The description of the street system (e.g., identifying arterial
and collector street locations) determines which locations are appropriate for
more intense uses, as well as where increased buffering is needed.
      4.   Compatibility - Impacts Of The Proposed Development Upon Adjacent
Existing Or Proposed Uses:
         a.   One of the most important concerns in land use planning is the
relationship between different uses and their relative compatibility with each
other. In areas where densities are low, compatibility is usually achieved
using spacing between buildings and by congregating like uses together. This
simple method is easy to administer and understand; however, it can lead to
some undesirable conditions such as increased commute times, an automobile
dependent city, and un-walkable neighborhoods.
         b.   Compatibility in multiple-use districts can be attained in a more
nuanced way by focusing more on the performance (effects) of various uses and
designing regulations that allow for more integration of uses. If carefully
done, the integration of uses can be achieved so that commute times become
shorter, and neighborhoods become more walkable and interesting, all while
preserving privacy, security, and aesthetics.
         c.   The DCAs described in this title exist on a continuum of
intensity, and therefore have a continuum of compatibility methods. As DCAs
become more intense and uses become more integrated, compatibility methods
focus less on spacing and congregating of similar uses and more on performance-
based methods that directly address issues such as noise, traffic, air quality,
privacy, and aesthetics.
         d.   It is important to remember that while the intensity-based
concept proposes mixing uses, it does not mean that every land use is
appropriate everywhere. Location standards and compatibility requirements for
higher impact uses are an important part of the land use system proposed in
this plan. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-9-2: GUIDE TO SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATORS:
The regulators set forth in the tables in Sections
11-9-3 through
11-9-5 of this chapter establish the intensity limits and form regulations for
development in DCA-designated areas in the city of Bettendorf and its extra-
territorial jurisdiction. This section is intended to provide guidance for
applying the regulators contained in these tables.
   A.   Dwelling Units Per Acre: A measure of residential density. This
indicates the number of dwellings per acre of gross land area within a
residential development. For example, a forty (40)-lot subdivision on a ten
(10)-acre (435,600 square foot) tract will have a net density of four (4)
dwelling units per acre.
   B.   Minimum Lot Area: This indicates the minimum size of a legally-
described and recorded parcel upon which development can take place. As noted
above, minimum lot area and site area per unit may not be the same.
   C.   Minimum Lot Width: This is the required minimum distance connecting at
points along opposite side lot lines, measured at the required front yard
setback. For example, the lot width of an irregular lot in a district requiring
a twenty five-foot (25') front yard setback is determined by:
      1.   Locating the points along each side lot line at a distance of twenty
five feet (25') back from the front property line.
      2.   Drawing a line connecting these two points.
      3.   Measuring the length of this line. The length is the lot width.
   D.   Minimum Yards: These define the required setbacks of buildings from
front, side, and rear property lines. While the yard requirements apply to a
majority of development, the ordinance provides for a number of exceptions.
Some of these include:
      1.   Planned Unit Developments: Front yard setbacks can be varied within
planned unit developments, which are reviewed and approved by the city council
after a recommendation from the planning commission.
      2.   Major Streets: The city may require greater than normal setbacks
along segments of the city's arterial street system, as defined in the
comprehensive development plan.
      3.   Flexibility Provided by Supplemental Development Regulations:
Chapter 11 of this title establishes supplemental regulations, many of which
provide flexibility or variations in setback regulations for specific contexts.
      4.   Maximum Setbacks: Some specific zoning districts provide maximum as
well as minimum setbacks. These setbacks establish "build-to" lines that may be
necessary to protect the appearance and character of special urban districts.
   E.   Maximum Height: Height normally measures the vertical distance from the
established grade to the highest point of a building. However, as established
by the definition of height, the point of measurement may vary for different
types of buildings and roof slopes. Maximum height is also established by
limitations on the number of building stories.
   F.   Maximum Building Coverage: This measures the percentage of a site that
may be covered by the footprint of buildings. Thus, a twenty thousand (20,000)
square foot building on a forty thousand (40,000) square foot site has a
building coverage of fifty percent (50%). This is a method of regulating the
scale of buildings in an area.
   G.   Minimum Lot Open Space: This measures the percentage of a site that
must be retained as landscaped open space. It limits the amount of the site
that may be covered by buildings and other surfaces and development features
which prevent the penetration of water into the ground (such as driveways,
porches, parking lots, and other features). This requirement is covered in
Chapter 12 Landscaping and Buffering of this title. Minimum open space
requirements help control the velocity and quantity of stormwater runoff and
provide for groundwater recharge.
   H.   Floor Area Ratio: Just as site area per unit controls the density of
residential development, floor area ration (FAR) controls the density of non-
residential development. FAR is the ratio of gross floor area of a building to
total site area. Thus, in an area with a maximum permitted FAR of 1.0, a forty
thousand (40,000) square foot building may be located on a forty thousand
(40,000) square foot site. Naturally, because of coverage ratios, landscaping,
and parking requirements, such a building will be multi-story.
   I.   Supplemental Use Regulations: Certain permitted uses require
satisfaction of specific requirements in order to function successfully in
their urban or rural contexts. These supplemental requirements are set forth in
Chapter 11 of this title. These requirements are cross-referenced in the
"supplementary regulations" column of the use matrix.
11-9-3: ULI URBAN - LOW INTENSITY DCA:
   A.   Purpose: These are areas with urban services including relatively low-
density residential and neighborhood commercial and service uses. ULI developed
areas reflect an efficient, walkable pattern of low-density development. As
compared to denser areas, ULI has more space and separation of uses, with
farther distances between destinations and fewer shared amenities.
   B.   Uses: A mix of complementary uses, including mostly small to large lot
single-family housing, attached dwelling units in two (2)- to four (4)-unit
structures, schools, small parks and churches, and neighborhood retail or
mixed-use developments.
   C.   Intensity:
      1.   Residential Development: One (1) to five (5) dwelling units per
acre; 0.4-0.7FAR.
      2.   Commercial Development: Maximum 1.0 FAR.
   D.   Form:
      1.   Uses are integrated so that residents can access them by walking or
biking. Potential lot clustering: innovative subdivisions or site
configurations are encouraged.
      2.   ULI areas use a high-connectivity grid street pattern to expand
viable locations for low-intensity commercial uses, and allow multiple access
points and route choices between all uses.
      3.   Sidewalks are located on both sides of all streets. Off-street
trails are located along natural greenways, and provide linkages between parks
and other civic facilities.
   E.   Compatibility:
      1.   Compatibility will be achieved through gradual increases of
intensity transitioning from one land use to another. A cross section of this
area may show large lot single family next to medium lot single family, next to
small lot single family, next to townhomes, next to small commercial. Although
the focus is on gradual changes in intensity, these changes should occur at a
small enough scale to ensure inclusion of a range of land uses within roughly a
quarter square mile (160 acres) in order to encourage walking, biking, and the
reduction of auto trips.
      2.   Within residential neighborhoods, density transitions should be made
at rear lot lines, not at street centerlines.
      3.   Different intensities of land use are positioned to create a smooth
transition from lower to higher intensity uses.
      4.   Larger commercial or office uses should locate near collector and
arterial streets.
      5.   Smaller commercial uses may be appropriate near local and collector
streets.
   F.   Site Development Regulations (Current R-3):
   Table 11-9-3F
          1-Family 1-Family                   Town house (Note Other Non-
Regulator Detached Attached Duplex (2-Family) 2)               Residential
                                                               Permitted Use
                                                                              Other Non-
Regulator                         1-Family   1-Family   Duplex (2- Town house Residential
                                  Detached   Attached   Family)    (Note 2)   Permitted
                                                                              Use
Maximum Dwelling Units per Acre   5          8          8          12         N/A
Minimum Lot Area (square feet)    6,600      4,200 per  8,400      2,400 per  10,000
                                             unit                  unit
Minimum Lot Width (feet)          60         35 per     70         24 per     60
                                             unit                  unit
Minimum Yards (feet)
   Front Yard                  25         25         25         25         25
                                                                   5 ft min;  5 ft min;
                                  5 ft min;  5 ft min;  5 ft min;  One side=  One side=
   Side Yard                   Total = 10 Total = 10 Total = 10 10         10
                                  ft         ft         ft         Total =    Total = min
                                                                   min 15     15
   Street Side    Yard/Corne25Lot      25         25         25         25
   Rear Yard                   25         25         25         25         25
Maximum Height (feet) (Note 1)    35 or 2 ½ 35 or 2 ½ 35 or 2 ½ 35 or 2 ½ 60
                                  sto.       sto.       sto.       sto.
Maximum F.A.R.                    0.4        0.7        0.7        0.7        1.0
 
Note 1: Churches, schools and hospitals are permitted a maximum height of 60
feet for the main structure and 75 feet for towers or steeples.
Note 2: Townhouse structures not to exceed four dwellings in a row.
11-9-4: UMI URBAN - MEDIUM INTENSITY DCA:
   A.   Purpose: These are areas with urban services including medium-density
residential and neighborhood and community commercial, office, and service
uses. UMI areas are vibrant, urban areas that draw customers and employees from
outside the immediate area. Increased intensity (compared to ULI) improves
opportunities for economic activity and social interaction.
   B.   Uses: A mix of complementary uses, including small lot single-family
housing or multiple single-family units on one lot, low-scale multiple family
buildings, schools, mid-sized parks and churches, commercial, and mixed-use
developments. Amenities such as parks, plazas, and quality streetscapes should
be more prevalent than in ULI areas.
   C.   Intensity:
      1.   Residential Development: Six (6) to twelve (12) dwelling units per
acre (17 dwelling units/acre MF); 0.6-0.70 FAR.
      2.   Commercial Development: Maximum FAR of 2.0.
   D.   Form:
      1.   A high-connectivity grid pattern expands viable locations for
commercial land uses and allows multiple access points and route choices
between uses.
      2.   As compared to ULI, UMI encourages closer proximity between
transportation, housing, and shopping choices.
      3.   Sidewalks are located on both sides of all streets. Off-street
trails are located along natural greenways, and provide linkages between parks
and other civic facilities.
   E.   Compatibility:
      1.   Land uses and intensities should be integrated at a finer grain than
within the urban-low intensity designation. As compared to ULI areas,
compatibility should be achieved through increased attention to traffic
circulation and parking, site and building design, and on-site operations.
      2.   Land uses are sometimes mixed vertically resulting in complementary
and alternating periods of use and the ability to share parking areas.
      3.   Different types of land use are positioned to create a smooth
internal transition from lower to higher intensity uses; however, this
transition happens over a shorter distance than within the ULI designation.
      4.   Larger commercial or office uses should locate near collector and
arterial streets.
      5.   Smaller commercial uses are appropriate on any street provided that
a smooth transition in intensity of uses is maintained.
   F.   Site Development Regulations (R-4):
   Table 11-9-4F
          1-Family 1-Family  Duplex (2- Town house  Multi- Family Other Non-
Regulator Detached Attached  Family)    (Note 1)    (Note 1)      Residential
                   (Note 1)                                       Permitted Use
                         1-Family                         Multi-    Other Non-
Regulator     1-Family   Attached   Duplex (2- Town house Family    Residential
              Detached   (Note 1)   Family)    (Note 1)   (Note 1)  Permitted
                                                                    Use
Maximum
Dwelling      6          12         6          12         17        N/A
Units per
Acre
Minimum Lot              3,500 per             2,000 per  2,500 per
Area (square  7,200      unit       7,000      unit       unit      10,000
feet)
Minimum Lot   50         35         70         24         70        75
Width (feet)
Minimum Yards (feet)
   Front Ya25         25         25         25         25        25
                                               5 ft min;  5 ft min; 5 ft min;
   Side Yar5 ft min;  5 ft min;  5 ft min;  One side=  One side= One side=
   (Note 2)Total = 10 Total = 10 Total = 10 10         10        10
              ft         ft         ft         Total =    Total =   Total = min
                                               min 15     min 15    15
   Street
   SideYard25         25         25         25         25        25
   Corner Lot
   Rear Yar25         25         25         25         25        25
Maximum       35 or 2 ½ 35 or 2 ½ 35 or 2 ½ 40 or 3    40 or 3
Height (feet) sto.       sto.       sto.       stories    stories   60
(Note 3)
Maximum       0.6        0.7        0.7        0.7        0.7       2.0
F.A.R.
 
Note 1: Density regulators are shown on a per-unit basis.
Note 2 - Separation of Townhouse Buildings: There shall be a minimum of fifteen
feet (15') separation between adjacent townhouse row dwellings.
Note 3: Churches, schools, and hospitals are permitted a maximum height of
sixty feet (60') for the main structure and seventy five feet (75') for towers
or steeples. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-9-5: UHI URBAN - HIGH INTENSITY DCA:
   A.   Purpose: These are areas with urban services including medium and high-
density residential, major commercial, office, and service uses, and limited
industrial in suitable locations. UHI areas improve economic performance and
opportunities for social interaction, by locating diverse and complementary
uses in close proximity.
   B.   Uses: A mix of complementary uses, including multi-family residential,
large offices, medical buildings, regional commercial, limited industrial,
institutional uses such as churches, schools, or hospitals, and other regional
attractors. Residential uses range from townhomes/rowhouses up to apartment
towers. Parking garages or public parking lots may be found in these areas.
Higher levels of urban amenities are used to offset the area's intensity level.
   C.   Intensity:
      1.   Residential Development: 12+ dwelling units/acre.
      2.   Commercial Development: Maximum FAR of 4.0.
   D.   Form:
      1.   Good access to freeways, highways, arterials, and transit, yet still
designed around pedestrians.
      2.   A high-connectivity grid pattern provides viable locations for
higher-intensity land uses, and allows multiple access points and routes
between uses.
      3.   High level of pedestrian accommodation, with buildings lining the
street right-of-way and most off-street parking located either to the rear of
buildings or off-site. Sidewalks are located on both sides of all streets.
   E.   Compatibility:
      1.   Land uses and intensities should be fully integrated and mixed.
Compatibility should be achieved through increased attention to traffic
circulation and parking, site and building design, and on-site operations.
      2.   Different land uses can be close together because design and
amenities take into account these juxtapositions and make appropriate
accommodations.
      3.   Form and design rules and performance regulations address aesthetic
and functional compatibility.
      4.   Limited industrial uses may be allowed with requirements that they
mitigate any anticipated negative impacts on adjacent land uses and that they
are located near collector and arterial streets.
      5.   Land uses should be fully integrated horizontally and mixed
vertically, resulting in complementary and alternating times of use and the
ability to share parking areas.
   F.   Site Development Regulations (R-5):
   Table 11-9-5F
          Town     Multi-
Regulator house    Family Other Non-Residential Permitted Use
          (Note 1)
                      Town              Multi-            Other Non-Residential
Regulator             house             Family            Permitted Use
                      (Note 1)
Maximum Dwelling      12                29                N/A
Units per Acre
Minimum Lot Area (sq. 2,000             10,000            10,000
ft.)
Minimum Lot Width     25                70                75
(feet)
Minimum Yards (feet)
   Front Yard      Min. 15 ft        Min. 15 ft        Min.15 ft
                      5 ft min;         5 ft min;         5 ft min;
   Side Yard       One side=10;      One side=10;      One side=10;
                      total=min 15      total=min 15      total=min 15
   Street Side Yard15                15                15
   Corner Lot
   Rear Yard (Note 25                25                25
Maximum Height (feet) 10 stories or 150 10 stories or 150 10 stories or 150 ft.
(Note 4, 5)           ft.               ft.
Maximum Lot Coverage  0.8               0.8
Maximum F.A.R.        0.8               0.8               4.0
 
Note 1: Density regulators are shown on a per unit basis.
Note 2 - Separation of Townhouse Buildings: There shall be a minimum of fifteen
feet (15') separation between adjacent townhouse row dwellings.
Note 3: Height limit in table for one- or two (2)-story structures; the
combined side yard requirement shall be increased by five feet (5') for each
additional story over two (2) and shall be distributed equally among the two
(2) side yards.
Note 4: Twenty five feet (25') rear yard setback for one- or two (2)-story
structures; the required rear yard shall be increased by five feet (5') for
each additional story over two (2).
Note 5: Churches, schools, and hospitals are permitted a maximum height of
sixty feet (60') for the main structure and seventy five feet (75') for towers
or steeples.
Note 6: Open space does not include driveways, parking areas, or structures.
CHAPTER 10
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS: SPECIFIC TO DEVELOPMENT CHARACTER AREAS
   (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 11
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-11A-1: Purpose
11-11A-2: Supplemental Use Regulations - Agricultural Uses
11-11A-3: Supplemental Use Regulations - Residential Uses
11-11A-4: Supplemental Use Regulations - Civic Uses
11-11A-5: Supplemental Use Regulations - Office Uses
11-11A-6: Supplemental Use Regulations - Commercial Uses
11-11A-7: Supplemental Use Regulations - Industrial Uses
11-11A-8: Supplemental Use Regulations - Miscellaneous Uses
11-11A-9: Supplemental Use Regulations - Accessory Uses
11-11A-10: Supplemental Use Regulations - Temporary Uses
11-11A-1: PURPOSE:
     A.   This supplemental regulations section contains regulations concerning
the use of property as well as regulations impacting site development. The
supplemental use regulations set forth additional standards for certain uses
located within the various zoning districts and DCAs. These regulations
recognize that certain use types have characteristics that require additional
controls in order to protect public health, safety, and welfare. These
regulations complement the use regulations contained in Chapters 5 and 9 of
this title.
   B.   The supplemental site development regulations establish basic
requirements for developable lots, including frontage requirements. They
recognize the existence of special conditions that cannot comply literally with
the site development regulations set out for each zoning district. Therefore,
these regulations qualify or modify the district regulations of this title and
provide for specific areas of exception. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-11A-2: SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS - AGRICULTURAL USES:
   A.   Horticulture - Nurseries In A-2 District: Retailing is not permitted in
conjunction with nurseries in the A-2 district.
   B.   Crop Production In Non-Agricultural Districts: Crop production is a
permitted interim use in any zoning district.
   C.   Farm Residences And Farm Buildings Exempt: Farm residences, farm
buildings, and other farm structures and uses on parcels over forty (40) acres
in size shall be exempt from the provisions of this title when used for the
agricultural purposes intended. However, the front yard requirements shall be
adhered to.
   D.   Farm Homestead: Permitted in A-1 if occupied by the farm owner or
tenant operator, and allowing the family of a son or daughter to reside on the
premises.
   E.   Sewer And Water: All dwellings erected after the effective date hereof
shall be served either by a municipal sewer and water system, private community
sewer and water system, or private individual sewerage and water system
approved by the Scott County Board of Health.
   F.   Animal Production - Separation From Residential Uses:
      1.   Animal production use types may not be established within five
hundred feet (500') of pre-existing residential districts or urban DCAs.
      2.   No feeding or disposal of garbage, rubbish, or offal associated with
animal production shall occur within five hundred feet (500') of any pre-
existing residential districts or urban DCAs. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-11A-3: SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS - RESIDENTIAL USES:
   A.   Residential Structure Design Standards: All single-family residential,
duplex residential, townhouse residential, and multi-family residential
dwellings for which a building permit has been issued on or after October 17,
2017 shall comply with the following minimum design standard:
      1.   Minimum Structure Width: The minimum dimension (width) of all
residential buildings shall not be less than twenty tow feet (22') for at least
seventy five percent (75%) of the distance of the major dimension (length).
   B.   Townhouses in R-3 and R-4 Districts: In the R-3 and R-4 districts,
townhouses are limited to a maximum of eight attached dwellings.
   C.   Trucks on Residentially Used Lots: No truck of three-quarter ton rated
capacity or other type commercial vehicular equipment shall be parked or stored
on a lot in any residential district or urban DCA, except when located in a
garage or enclosed structure. This provision shall not apply to a bona fide
agricultural use.
   D.   Parking Of Recreational Vehicles On Residential Lots: One recreational
vehicle may be parked in the rear or side yard not closer than two feet (2')
from the rear lot line or buildable area of the lot. Other recreational
vehicles may be parked on the lot when stored in an enclosed, permanent
structure.
   E.   Tents On Residential Lots: Tents shall not be erected, used, or
maintained on any lot, except such small tents that are customarily used for
temporary recreational purposes. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017; amd. Ord. 06-20, 4-
21-2020)
11-11A-4: SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS - CIVIC USES:
   A.   Religious Assembly: Places of religious assembly are permitted provided
the property for said use fronts on a collector or arterial thoroughfare so
designated in the comprehensive plan.
   B.   Clubs, Recreational: Country club, tennis club, swimming pool, and
similar recreational uses, where permitted, requires the property for said use
to front on a collector or arterial thoroughfare so designated in the
comprehensive plan.
   C.   Day Care Centers (General): Each day care center (general) must be
validly licensed by the state of Iowa.
   D.   Group Care Facilities And Group Homes: Each group care facility or
group home must be validly licensed by either the state of Iowa or the
appropriate governmental agency. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-11A-5: SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS - OFFICE USES:
   (Reserved)
11-11A-6: SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS - COMMERCIAL USES:
   A.   Stables: Stables, riding stables, and academies are required to be
located not nearer than five hundred feet (500') to any zoned residential
district, urban DCA, or an existing dwelling, other than the dwelling of the
owner or lessee of the site.
   B.   Agricultural Sales/Service - Fertilizer and Seed Sales. Includes bulk
storage and mixing; provided that such facilities are located not less than one
thousand feet (1,000') from a residential district or urban DCA.
   C.   Veterinary Services (Large And General); Kennels: In an agricultural
district, may be located not nearer than five hundred feet (500') to any zoned
residential district, urban DCA, or an existing dwelling other than the
dwelling of the owner or lessee of the site.
   D.   Auto Service, Repair, Equipment Repair, Travel Center, Truck Stop, RV
Storage, and Body Repair Uses:
      1.   Where permitted in commercial districts and urban DCAs, all repair
activities, including oil drainage, lifts, and other equipment, must take place
within a completely enclosed building. Outdoor storage is permitted only where
incidental to auto repair and body repair, provided that such storage is
completely screened so as not to be visible from residential areas or public
rights-of-way. Screening is subject to provisions of Section
11-12-6 of this title.
      2.   Any spray painting must take place within structures designed for
that purpose and be approved by the building official.
   E.   Commercial District and Urban DCA Performance Standards: All activities
in the commercial districts shall conform to the performance standards
established for the I-1 limited industrial district.
   F.   Waste Materials: In commercial districts and urban DCAs, no materials
or wastes shall be deposited upon a lot in such a form that may be transferred
off the property by natural causes or forces.
   G.   C-1, C-2 District Scope Of Operations: All business establishments in
C-1 and C-2 districts shall be retail trade or service establishments dealing
directly with consumers, and all goods produced on the premises shall be sold
on the premises where produced.
   H.   C-3 District And Urban DCA Outdoor Sales:
      1.   All outdoor sales space in the C-3 district shall be provided with a
permanent durable and dustless surface, and shall be graded and drained so as
to dispose of all surface water.
      2.   All outdoor storage facilities for fuel, raw materials, products,
and all objectionable materials in C-3 districts and urban DCAs shall be
enclosed by a fence, wall, or plant materials adequate to conceal such
facilities from adjacent properties and the public right-of-way.
   I.   C-6 Outdoor Storage: No outdoor storage shall be permitted in the C-
6 district.
   J.   Liquor License: Any use in the C-1 commercial district and U-LI DCA
requiring a liquor license is considered a special use and must be approved for
a special-use permit by the zoning board of adjustment under the provisions of
Section
11-15-12 of this title. Uses with liquor licenses in the other commercial
districts or DCAs do not require approval by special-use permit. (Ord. 35-17,
10-17-2017)
11-11A-7: SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS - INDUSTRIAL USES:
   A.   Outdoor Sales: All outdoor sales space shall be provided with a
permanent durable and dustless surface, and shall be graded and drained as to
dispose of all surface water.
   B.   Outdoor Storage: Outdoor storage is permitted.
   C.   Enclosure Of Use: Industrial operations may take place outdoors.
   D.   Agricultural Industry - Animal Feed, Preparation, Grinding, Mixing, and
Storage: Such facilities may not be located less than one thousand feet
(1,000') from a residential use.
   E.   Resource Extraction: Includes the extraction of minerals, sand, gravel,
topsoil, and other aggregates, including equipment, buildings and structures
for screening, crushing, mixing, washing, and storing, provided that:
      1.   No open pit or shaft will be less than two hundred feet (200') from
any public road.
      2.   All buildings and structures shall be located not less than two
hundred feet (200') from any property line.
      3.   The borders of the property shall be fenced with a solid fence or
wall at least six feet (6') in height when the property is adjacent to or
across the street from any district other than an industrial district.
      4.   A plan of development of the reclamation of the land shall be
provided as part of the application for special use. The plan of development
shall be accompanied by a written agreement between the owner or his/her agent
and the city of Bettendorf, and a performance bond in an amount equal to the
cost of the reclamation of the land as set forth in the development plan. (Ord.
35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-11A-8: SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS - MISCELLANEOUS USES:
   A.   Amateur Radio Tower: Noncommercial ham operator transmission tower,
provided it meets the following conditions in addition to those listed in
Section
11-15-12 of this title:
      1.   The tower does not exceed sixty five feet (65') in height;
      2.   Engineering specifications and certification are submitted
indicating that if the tower were to collapse, it would fall completely within
the boundaries of the property and not endanger any habitable structures;
      3.   Engineering certification is submitted that the tower was installed
as designed and in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications;
      4.   The tower and guys are not located within the front yard; and
      5.   A building permit from the city is required. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-
2017)
11-11A-9: SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS - ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   Accessory Uses Permitted In All Agricultural Districts: The following
accessory uses, buildings, or other structures and devices customarily
incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special use may be
permitted in all agricultural districts, provided they are operated and
maintained under the same ownership and on the same parcel and do not include
structures or structural features inconsistent with the permitted use or
special use. These accessory uses may include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Garage, carport, and other parking space for the exclusive use of
residents and occupants of the premises.
      2.   Gardening (the raising of vegetables and fruits) and keeping of
household pets exclusively for the use or personal enjoyment of residents of
the premises and not for commercial purposes.
      3.   Home occupation.
      4.   Swimming pool, exclusively for the use of the residents and their
guests, and set back from every property line at least ten feet (10') and not
located in the front yard.
   B.   Additional Accessory Uses Permitted In The A-1 District: The following
accessory uses, buildings, or other structures and devices customarily
incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special use may be
permitted in the A-1 district, in addition to those accessory uses listed above
in Section
11-11-9A of this chapter, provided they are operated and maintained under the
same ownership and on the same parcel and do not include structures or
structural features inconsistent with the permitted use or special use. These
additional accessory uses may include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Ham operator transmission tower; however, a building permit from the
city shall be required.
      2.   Hardware sales when associated with a greenhouse or nursery.
      3.   Home occupation.
      4.   Living quarters of persons employed on the premises, and not rented
or otherwise used as a separate dwelling.
      5.   Parking of recreational vehicles. One recreational vehicle may be
parked within the buildable area of the lot. Other recreational vehicles may be
parked thereon when stored in an enclosed, permanent structure.
      6.   Roadside stand, for the sale of produce and poultry grown and raised
on or in the immediate area of the premises, but not including live animals,
and provided that such stand shall contain no more than six hundred (600)
square feet of floor area. Such stands, or produce offered for sale, shall be
located not less than fifty feet (50') from the centerline of the highway,
except a temporary roadside stand may be located not less than twenty feet
(20') from the nearest edge of pavement, provided they shall be placed at such
locations only during the harvest season of produce offered for sale and shall
contain no more than two hundred (200) square feet of floor area. Each roadside
stand shall have facilities, approved by the zoning administrator, for the
vehicular ingress and egress, and adequate off-street parking.
      7.   Roomers and boarders, not to exceed six (6).
   C.   Additional Accessory Uses Permitted In The A-2 District: The following
accessory uses, buildings, or other structures and devices customarily
incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special use may be
permitted in the A-2 district, in addition to those accessory uses listed above
in Section
11-11A-9 A. of this chapter, provided they are operated and maintained under
the same ownership and on the same parcel and do not include structures or
structural features inconsistent with the permitted use or special use. These
additional accessory uses may include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Living quarters of persons employed on the premises, and not rented
or otherwise used as a separate dwelling.
      2.   Noncommercial ham operator transmission tower, provided it meets the
following conditions:
         a.   The tower does not exceed the allowable height of the principal
structure by more than ten feet (10');
         b.   Guyed or freestanding towers are set back from all property lines
and habitable structures by a distance equal to their height;
         c.   Towers attached to the principal structure shall be set back from
all property lines a distance equal to the distance the tower extends above the
last secure connection to the principal structure;
         d.   The tower and the guys are not located within the front yard; and
         e.   A building permit from the city is required.
   D.   Accessory Uses Permitted In All Residential Districts And Urban DCAs:
The following accessory uses, buildings, or other structures and devices
customarily incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special
use may be permitted in all residential districts and urban DCAs, provided they
are operated and maintained under the same ownership and on the same parcel and
do not include structures or structural features inconsistent with the
permitted use or special use. Accessory uses may include, but are not limited
to:
      1.   Garage, carport, and other parking space for the exclusive use of
residents and occupants of the premises.
      2.   Gardening (the raising of vegetables and fruits) and keeping of
household pets exclusively for the use or personal enjoyment of residents of
the premises and not for commercial purposes.
      3.   Noncommercial ham operator transmission tower, provided it meets the
following conditions:
         a.   The tower does not exceed the allowable height of the principal
structure by more than ten feet (10');
         b.   Guyed or freestanding towers are set back from all property lines
and habitable structures by a distance equal to their height;
         c.   Towers attached to the principal structure shall be set back from
all property lines a distance equal to the distance the tower extends above the
last secure connection to the principal structure;
         d.   The tower and the guys are not located within the front yard; and
         e.   A building permit from the city is required.
      4.   Home occupation, provided that home occupation uses are not
permitted in the R-1 district.
         a.   Home Occupation: Any nondomestic activity, with the exception of
a professional office in residence, conducted within a dwelling unit or
accessory structure thereto which is secondary and clearly incidental to the
use of the dwelling or accessory structure for purely residential purposes, and
participated in solely by the occupants of the dwelling unit or one additional
person not an occupant of the dwelling unit. No home occupation shall be
permitted in which there is associated therewith:
            (1)   Any commodity sold upon the premises except that which is
produced thereon.
            (2)   Any disturbance such as noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odor,
heat, or glare beyond the confines of the dwelling unit or accessory structure.
            (3)   Any exterior display, exterior storage of materials, signs
(except as otherwise permitted), house calls after nine o'clock p.m. or before
eight o'clock a.m., exterior additions or alterations or other indication from
the exterior that the dwelling unit or accessory structure is being used in
part for any use other than that of a dwelling or accessory structure for
purely residential purposes.
         b.   A zoning certificate of approval shall be obtained from the
zoning administrator and renewed annually when a determination has been made
that the above conditions are met. If, in the determination of the zoning
administrator, the above conditions are not met or that the home occupation
creates a disturbance or becomes a nuisance to the general neighborhood in some
other manner, the home occupation shall be terminated.
      5.   Swimming pool, exclusively for the use of the residents and their
guests, and set back from every property line at least ten feet (10') and not
located in the front yard. Private swimming pools may be located in the
required rear yard and shall be enclosed by a fence at least five feet (5') in
height.
      6.   Games of skill or chance, raffles, or bingo pursuant to a license
authorized by Iowa Code Chapter 99B, except in residential uses.
      7.   Accessory Buildings:
         a.   Overview Statement: Accessory buildings and uses are allowed in
the various districts as prescribed in each district and shall be compatible
with the principal use.
         b.   Building Location: When a side yard is required, no part of an
accessory building shall be located closer than five feet to the side lot line
along such side yard. When a rear yard is required, no part of an accessory
building shall be located closer than five feet (5') to the rear lot line or to
those portions of the side lot lines abutting such required rear yard. In a
residential district, no detached accessory building shall be closer than eight
feet (8') to the principal building, and for each foot over twenty feet (20')
in length that the wall of an accessory structure (except swimming pools)
parallels and is next to the principal structure, the required distance between
the structures shall be increased by an additional foot; provided, however, no
swimming pool shall be closer than eight feet (8') to the principal building or
accessory structure having a basement, nor closer than five feet (5') to any
principal building or accessory structure without a basement.
         c.   Time Of Construction: No accessory building or structure shall be
constructed prior to the start of construction of the principal building to
which it is accessory.
         d.   Rear Yard: No accessory building or buildings shall occupy more
than forty percent (40%) of the area in a required rear yard.
         e.   Height: No accessory building or portion thereof located in a
required yard shall exceed one story or fifteen feet (15') in height. In the C-
1, C-2, and C-3 districts and in urban DCAs, no accessory structure shall
exceed one story or fifteen feet (15') in height.
         f.   Reversed Corner Lots: On a reversed corner lot in a residential
district or DCA, no accessory building or portion thereof located in a required
rear yard shall be closer to the side lot line abutting the street than the
required front yard on the adjacent lot to the rear. Further, in the above
instance, no such accessory building shall be located within five feet of any
part of a rear lot line which coincides with a side lot line, or portion
thereof, of property in a residential district.
         g.   Maximum Size Of Accessory Building: The maximum size of a
detached garage for a single-family detached, single-family attached, or duplex
residential uses shall not exceed the larger of one thousand (1,000) square
feet, or seventy five percent (75%) of the building coverage area of the main
residential structure. All detached garages, along with all other accessory
buildings, must not exceed the maximum forty percent (40%) coverage of the
required rear yard limitation. If compliant with this maximum rear yard
coverage limit.
      8.   Accessory Dwelling Units: Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) are
permitted in single-family homes where the property is in compliance with the
permitted use and bulk regulation requirements of this title, subject to the
following additional requirements:
         a.   The review and approval of an ADU application is by special-use
permit. The proposed ADU must meet all the requirements of the Bettendorf
Building Code and all other applicable city requirements.
         b.   Only one ADU is permitted on a single-family property. The ADU
must be attached to or within the residential structure. Both dwellings must
use a common entrance door.
         c.   The owner of the subject property must reside in one of the
dwelling units on the property.
         d.   The ownership of the property may not be divided into separate
condominium ownership of each separate unit.
         e.   One off-street parking space, in addition to the parking
requirement for the single-family home, must be provided in accordance with
this ordinance's requirements for parking on a single-family lot.
         f.   The minimum size of the ADU is four hundred (400) square feet and
the maximum size is eight hundred (800) square feet.
         g.   Any new construction must be aesthetically compatible with the
existing home.
      9.   Yard And Garage Sales:
         a.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
            (1)   Garage Sale: Means and includes all general sales open to the
public, conducted from or on a residential premises in any residential zone,
for the purpose of disposing of personal property, including, but not limited
to, all sales entitled garage, lawn, yard, attic, porch, room, back yard,
patio, rummage, or moving sale. This definition shall not include a situation
where no more than five (5) specific items are held out for sale and all
advertisement of such sale specifically names those items to be sold and may
include multi-family garage sales on one residential site.
            (2)   Personal Property: Property which is owned, utilized, and
maintained by an individual or members of his or her residence and acquired in
the normal course of living in or maintaining a residence. It does not include
merchandise which was purchased for resale or obtained on consignment.
         b.   Hours Of Operation: Garage sales shall be limited in time to no
more than the daylight hours of three (3) consecutive days.
         c.   Display Of Sale Property: Personal property offered for sale may
be displayed within the residence in a garage, carport, and a rear yard and/or
front yard, but only in such areas. No personal property offered for sale at a
garage sale shall be displayed in any public right-of-way. Only personal
property shall be sold.
         d.   Number Of Garage Sales: No residence shall be the site of more
than three (3) garage sales per calendar year. The owner and occupant of the
residence whereon the garage sale is located shall be deemed to jointly control
the property for purposes of this section and shall be responsible for
complying with this section.
   E.   Additional Accessory Uses Permitted In The R-5 District And Urban DCAs:
The following accessory uses, buildings, or other structures and devices
customarily incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special
use may be permitted in the R-5 district and urban DCAs, in addition to those
accessory uses listed above in Section
11-11A-9 D. of this chapter, provided they are operated and maintained under
the same ownership, and on the same parcel, do not include structures or
structural features inconsistent with the permitted use or special use.
Accessory uses may include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Bar accessory to a hotel or motel and restaurant.
      2.   Multiple-family buildings may contain one or more of the hereinafter
set forth accessory commercial uses if each such use meets the following
conditions:
         a.   Accessory commercial uses:
            (1)   Barbershop.
            (2)   Beauty shop.
            (3)   Delicatessen.
            (4)   Eating place.
            (5)   Gift shop.
            (6)   Laundry and dry cleaning collection station.
            (7)   News, cigar, and candy shop.
         b.   Conditions:
            (1)   The accessory use is provided for the convenience of the
owner and tenants only.
            (2)   The accessory use does not have exterior signs except for one
non-illuminated sign not exceeding three square feet in area attached to the
building.
            (3)   The accessory use does not have a separate outside entrance.
            (4)   The accessory use is not evident from the street.
   F.   Accessory Uses Permitted In All Commercial, Industrial Districts, And
Urban DCAs: Accessory uses, buildings, or other structures and devices
customarily incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted use or
special use may be permitted, provided they are operated and maintained under
the same ownership on the same parcel and do not include structures or features
inconsistent with the permitted use or special use. Permitted or special uses
may include the following accessory uses, activities, and structures on the
same lot:
      1.   Parking for the principal use.
      2.   Minor manufacturing or fabrication of products made for sale in a
principal commercial use, provided such manufacturing is totally contained
within the structure housing the principal use.
      3.   Services operated for the sole benefit of employees of the principal
use.
      4.   Limited storage, warehouse and maintenance facilities subordinate to
the principal use.
   G.   Additional Accessory Uses Permitted In The I-2 And I-3 Industrial
Districts: The following accessory uses, buildings, or other structures and
devices customarily incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or
special use may be permitted in the I-2 and I-3 districts, in addition to those
accessory uses listed above in Section
11-11A-9 F. of this chapter, provided they are operated and maintained under
the same ownership, and on the same parcel, do not include structures or
structural features inconsistent with the permitted use or special use.
Accessory uses may include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Office. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-11A-10: SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS - TEMPORARY USES:
   A.   Temporary Uses Permitted In All Agricultural Districts: Upon
application to and issuance by the zoning administrator of a permit thereof,
the following uses may be operated as temporary uses in all agricultural
districts:
      1.   Temporary building, trailer, or yard for construction materials and
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the zoning
district. Each permit shall specify the location of the building, trailer, or
yard and the area of permitted operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a
period of not more than six (6) calendar months and shall not be renewed for
more than four (4) successive periods at the same location.
      2.   Temporary office, both incidental and necessary for the sale or
rental of real property. Each permit shall specify the location of the office
and the area of permitted operation. Each permit shall be valid for a period of
not more than one year and shall not be renewed for more than five (5)
successive periods at the same location.
   B.   Temporary Uses Permitted In All Residential Districts And Urban DCAs:
Upon application to and issuance by the zoning administrator of a permit
thereof, the following uses may be operated as temporary uses in all
residential districts and urban DCAs:
      1.   Real estate subdivision sign not to exceed one hundred (100) square
feet for each face. Sign shall be non-illuminated. Each permit shall specify
the location of the sign. Each such permit shall be valid for a period of not
more than one hundred eighty (180) days and may be renewed until the
development of the subdivision is ninety percent (90%) complete or for ten (10)
renewals, whichever comes first, and shall be conditioned upon the good
maintenance of the sign.
      2.   Temporary building, trailer, or yard for construction materials and
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the zoning
district. Each permit shall specify the location of the building, trailer, or
yard and the area of permitted operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a
period of not more than six (6) calendar months and shall not be renewed for
more than four (4) successive periods at the same location.
      3.   Temporary office, both incidental and necessary for the sale or
rental of real property. Each permit shall specify the location of the office
and the area of permitted operation. Each permit shall be valid for a period of
not more than one year and shall not be renewed for more than five (5)
successive periods at the same location.
   C.   Temporary Uses Permitted In C-1, C-2, And C-3 Commercial Districts And
Urban DCAs:
      1.   Upon application to and issuance by the zoning administrator of a
permit thereof, the following uses may be operated as temporary uses in all C-
1, C-2, and C-3 districts, as well as urban DCAs:
         a.   Bazaar, Dance, and Carnival: Bazaar, dance, and carnival,
provided however that each permit shall be valid for a period of not more than
seven (7) days, and provided further that a period of at least ninety (90) days
shall intervene between the termination of one permit and the issuance of
another permit for the same location.
         b.   Christmas Tree Sales: Each such permit shall be valid for a
period of not more than sixty (60) days.
         c.   Special Event Parking: Parking lot designated for a special
event, provided however that each permit shall be valid only for the duration
of the designated special event.
         d.   Temporary Construction Building, Trailer, or Yard: Temporary
building, trailer, or yard for construction materials and/or equipment, both
incidental and necessary to construction in the zoning district. Each permit
shall specify the location of the building or yard and the area of permitted
operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period of not more than one
year and shall not be renewed for more than five (5) successive periods at the
same location.
         e.   Temporary Office Building: Temporary office building to enable
the operation of the business while the site is being developed. The permanent
building must be approved through the site development plan process prior to
allowing a temporary office building. The temporary office building shall be
located within the buildable area of the lot and must comply with all other
building and city code requirements. Allowed for one year and renewable for one
additional year, provided substantial completion (over fifty percent [50%]) of
the permanent building is complete.
         f.   Temporary Real Estate Office: Temporary office, both incidental
and necessary for the sale or rental of real property. Each permit shall
specify the location of the office and the area of permitted operation. Each
such permit shall be valid for a period of not more than one year and shall not
be renewed for more than five (5) successive periods at the same location.
      2.   Once the temporary use has expired, the structure must be removed. A
bond equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost of
returning the site to its original condition will be required at the time a
permit for the temporary structure is issued.
   D.   Temporary Uses Permitted In C-6 Commercial Districts:
      1.   Upon application to and issuance by the zoning administrator of a
permit thereof, the following uses may be operated as temporary uses in all C-
6 districts:
         a.   Temporary Construction Building, Trailer, Or Yard: Temporary
building, trailer, or yard for construction materials and/or equipment, both
incidental and necessary to construction in the zoning district. Each permit
shall specify the location of the building or yard and the area of permitted
operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period of not more than six
(6) calendar months and shall not be renewed for more than four successive
periods at the same location.
         b.   Temporary Office Building: To enable the operation of the
business while the site is being developed. The permanent building must be
approved through the site development plan process prior to allowing a
temporary office building. The temporary office building shall be located
within the buildable area of the lot and must comply with all other building
and city code requirements, and is allowed for one year and renewable for one
additional year, provided substantial completion (over fifty percent [50%]) of
the permanent building is complete.
      2.   Once the temporary use has expired, the structure must be removed. A
bond equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost of
returning the site to its original condition will be required at the time a
permit for the temporary structure is issued.
   E.   Temporary Uses Permitted In C-7 Commercial Districts:
      1.   Upon application to and issuance by the zoning administrator of a
permit thereof, the following uses may be operated as temporary uses in all C-
7 districts:
         a.   Outdoor Concerts Or Performances: Outdoor sound amplified
concerts or public performances.
         b.   Temporary Construction Building, Trailer, Or Yard: Temporary
building, trailer, or yard for construction materials and/or equipment, both
incidental and necessary to construction in the zoning district. Each permit
shall specify the location of the building or yard and the area of permitted
operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period of no more than six (6)
calendar months and shall not be renewed for more than four (4) successive
periods at the same location.
         c.   Temporary Office Building: To enable the operation of the
business while the site is being developed. The permanent building must be
approved through the site development plan process prior to allowing a
temporary office building. The temporary office building shall be located
within the buildable area of the lot and must comply with all other building
and city code requirements. Allowed for one year and renewable for one
additional year, provided substantial completion (over fifty percent [50%]) of
the permanent building is complete.
      2.   Once the temporary use has expired, the structure must be removed. A
bond equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost of
returning the site to its original condition will be required at the time a
permit for the temporary structure is issued.
   F.   Temporary Uses Permitted In All Industrial Districts:
      1.   Upon application to and issuance by the zoning administrator of a
permit thereof, the following uses may be operated as temporary uses in all
industrial districts:
         a.   Temporary Construction Building, Trailer, Or Yard: Temporary
building, trailer, or yard for construction materials and/or equipment, both
incidental and necessary to construction in the zoning district. Each permit
shall specify the location of the building or yard and the area of permitted
operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period of not more than six
(6) calendar months and shall not be renewed for more than four (4) successive
periods at the same location.
         b.   Temporary Office Building: To enable the operation of the
business while the site is being developed. The permanent building must be
approved through the site development plan process prior to allowing a
temporary office building. The temporary office building shall be located
within the buildable area of the lot and must comply with all other building
and city code requirements, and is allowed for one year and renewable for one
additional year, provided substantial completion (over fifty percent [50%]) of
the permanent building is complete.
         c.   Temporary Real Estate Office: Temporary office, both incidental
and necessary for the sale or rental of real property. Each permit shall
specify the location of the office and the area of permitted operation. Each
such permit shall be valid for a period of not more than one year and shall not
be renewed for more than five (5) successive periods at the same location.
      2.   Once the temporary use has expired, the structure must be removed. A
bond equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost of
returning the site to its original condition will be required at the time a
permit for the temporary structure is issued.
ARTICLE B. SUPPLEMENTAL DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-11B-11: Supplemental Development Regulations - Lots
11-11B-12: Supplemental Development Regulations - Open Space on Lots
11-11B-13: Supplemental Development Regulations - Height
11-11B-14: Supplemental Development Regulations - Residential Uses
11-11B-15: Supplemental Development Regulations - Commercial Uses
11-11B-16: Supplemental Use Regulations - Industrial Uses
11-11B-17: Supplemental Use Regulations - Miscellaneous Uses
11-11B-11: SUPPLEMENTAL DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS - LOTS:
   A.   Lots Of Record: In any district where dwellings are permitted, a
single-family detached dwelling may be located on any lot platted or of record
as of July 18,1957, regardless of its area or width, provided however that the
following shall apply:
      1.   The front yard setback requirements for the district in which such
lot is located shall apply, except where such lot is a corner lot, in which
case the front yard setback requirement shall apply only to the shorter street
side of the lot.
      2.   The sum of the side yard widths of any such lot shall not be less
than thirty percent (30%) of the width of the lot, but in no case less than ten
percent (10%) of the width of the lot for any one side yard. Additionally,
where such lot is a corner lot, the width of the side yard on the longer street
side of the corner lot shall not be less than:
         a.   Fifty percent (50%) of the front yard required on the lot to the
rear if there is reverse frontage, or
         b.   The side yard setback for the district in which the corner lot is
located if there is no reverse frontage.
      3.   The depth of the rear yard of any such lot shall not be less than
twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot, but in no case less than ten (10)
feet.
      4.   If the application of any of the requirements of Subsections
11-11B-11 A.1.,
11-11B-11 A.2., or
11-11B-11 A.3. of this section to a particular lot would impose a greater
setback than required under the regulations of the district in which the lot is
located, the lesser setback requirements of the district regulations shall
control.
      5.   If two (2) or more such lots with continuous frontage are combined
under single ownership, such combined lots shall be treated as a single lot for
purposes of applying the requirements of Subsections
11-11B-11A1,
11-11B-11A2,
11-11B-11A3, and
11-11B-11A4 of this section. Where a portion of any such lot platted of record
as of July 18, 1957, is conveyed to a governmental body for public right-of-way
purposes, the regulations of this subsection shall continue to apply to the
remainder of such lot.
   B.   Number Of Buildings On A Lot: Not more than one principal building
shall be permitted on a zoning lot in the A-1, A-2, R-1, and R-2 zoning
districts. More than one principal building may be permitted on a zoning lot in
all other zoning districts.
   C.   Divisions: No lot shall hereafter be divided into two (2) or more lots
for the purpose of transfer or ownership unless all lots resulting from each
such division shall have lot areas and widths as required by this title.
   D.   Through Lots: On vacant through lots, the front lot lines shall be
along the street right-of-way designated by the zoning administrator, except
that when a front lot line has been established on one or more lots in the same
block and all have front lot lines established along the same street right-of-
way line, the street right-of-way line designated as the front lot line for
such lot or lots shall be the front line on all vacant through lots in such
block. Only such obstructions as herein permitted in front yards shall be
located in that part of a rear yard adjoining a street that is equivalent in
depth to a required front yard, except for lots backing to thoroughfares in
subdivisions where no access strips have been provided on the recorded plats.
   E.   Corner Lots: On a corner lot, the front lot line shall be the lot line
having the shortest dimension along the street right-of-way line. The required
front yard setback and the use of, or the restriction from, the front yard,
however, shall apply to each side of the lot facing a street and/or place.
(Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-11B-12: SUPPLEMENTAL DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS - OPEN SPACE ON LOTS:
   A.   Overview Statement: The general provisions dealing with open spaces,
lot coverage, yard, setbacks, vision clearance, and permitted obstructions are
provided for in this article.
   B.   Provision Of Open Spaces: The provision of yards, courts, and other
open spaces and minimum lot area legally required for a building shall be a
continuing obligation of the owner of such building or of the property on which
it is located as long as the building is in existence. Such open spaces shall
be completely landscaped with such aesthetic materials as, but not limited to,
trees, shrubbery, and grass, and continuously maintained. Such open space shall
be landscaped so as not to encourage the storage of motor vehicles except as
permitted by this title. Furthermore, no legally-required yards, courts, or
other open spaces, or minimum lot area allocated to any building, shall by
virtue of change of ownership or for any other reason be used to satisfy yard,
court, other open space or minimum lot area requirements for any other
building.
   C.   Location Of Open Spaces: All yards, courts, and other open spaces
allocated to a building or group of buildings shall be located on the same
zoning lots as such building or group of buildings.
   D.   Yards For Existing Buildings: No yards now or hereafter provided for a
building existing on the effective date hereof shall subsequently be reduced
below, if already less than the minimum yard requirements of this title for
equivalent new construction. However, a yard adjoining a street may be reduced
to provide right-of-way for street widening.
   E.   Division Of Zoning Lot: No improved zoning lot shall hereafter be
divided into two (2) or more zoning lots unless all improved zoning lots
resulting from each such division shall conform to all the applicable
regulations of the zoning district in which the property is located.
   F.   Two Uses On A Lot: Where two (2) or more permitted or special uses,
each requiring a minimum lot area, are provided in the same building or on the
same lot, the required lot area shall be the sum of the areas required for each
use individually.
   G.   Lots Without Street Frontage: Every structure or group of structures,
and every use or group of uses, shall be located upon a lot. Where unique land
planning designs are employed in a subdivision or planned development to
conserve the natural character of the land or to create a functional or
compatible arrangement of structures or uses, a lot which does not abut upon a
public or private street may be permitted, provided that:
      1.   Adequate provision is made for free access to the lot for the
property owner, or in the case of a nonresidential lot, for those persons who
would normally require access to the lot.
      2.   Adequate provision is made for the unobstructed access of
firefighting services, police protection, mail carrier letter service, rubbish
collection, and other governmental services.
      3.   Adequate provision is made for the extension and maintenance of
public and private utility services.
      4.   The arrangement will not contribute toward congestion in nearby
streets as a result of delivery services, lack of guest parking, or other
reasons.
   H.   Required Setbacks: Minimum setbacks on lots abutting a street or
thoroughfare shall be the distance required for a front yard or side yard
adjoining a street, in the districts where such lots are located, measured from
the existing right-of-way line as designated on the comprehensive plan of the
city, as duly established by other ordinances of the city, or as established by
county or state highway authorities, whichever has the greater right-of-way
width requirements.
   I.   Exceptions For Established Setbacks:
      1.   Where fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage on one side of a
street or, where applicable, across the street, between two (2) intersecting
streets is developed with buildings that have observed (within a variation of
five (5) feet or less) a front yard different in depth than required herein,
new buildings shall not be erected closer to the street than the average front
yard so established by the existing buildings.
      2.   Where fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage on one side of a
street between two (2) intersecting streets is developed with buildings that
have not observed a front yard as herein required, then:
         a.   Interior Lots:
            (1)   Where a building is to be erected within one hundred feet
(100') of existing buildings on both sides, the minimum front yard shall be a
line drawn between the closest front corners of the two (2) existing buildings.
            (2)   Where a building is to be erected within one hundred feet
(100') of an existing building on one side only, it may be erected as close to
the street as the existing building.
         b.   Corner Lots: The depth of the setback lines shall be normally
required in the district where the lot is located. In R-2 and R-3 zoning
districts corner lots will be deemed to have two (2) front yards and two (2)
side yards.
   J.   Vision Clearance:
      1.   Corner Lots: On corner lots, no structures or plant materials shall
obstruct a clear path of motor vehicle driver's vision of approaching vehicles
with a triangular space determined by a diagonal line connecting two (2) points
measured thirty five feet (35') equidistant from the street corner.
      2.   Private Driveway: An unobstructed vision clearance shall be
maintained at private driveway and place or street intersections and at alley
and place, street, or alley intersections.
   K.   Permitted Obstructions In Required Yards: The following obstructions
may be located in the required yards specified:
      1.   In All Yards:
         a.   Open terraces and walks not over four feet (4') above the average
level of the adjoining ground, but not including permanently roofed over
terrace or porch.
         b.   Awnings and canopies, but not projecting more than ten feet (10')
out from the structure, and at least seven feet (7') above the average level of
the adjoining ground.
         c.   Chimneys projecting eighteen inches (18") or less into the yard.
         d.   Arbors, trellises, flagpoles, fountains, sculptures, plant boxes,
and other similar ornamental objects.
         e.   Fences and wall per Subsection
11-11B-12 L. of this section below.
         f.   Trees, shrubs, and other plant materials.
      2.   In Front Yards:
         a.   One-story bay windows projecting three feet (3') or less into the
yards.
         b.   Overhanging eaves and gutters projecting three feet (3') or less
into the yard.
      3.   In Rear Yards:
         a.   Enclosed, detached off-street parking spaces.
         b.   Open off-street parking spaces.
         c.   Accessory shed, tool rooms, and similar buildings or structures
for domestic or agricultural storage.
         d.   Balconies, breezeways, and open porches.
         e.   One-story bay windows projecting three feet (3') or less into the
yard.
         f.   Overhanging eaves and gutters projecting three feet (3') or less
into the yard.
         g.   In any residential district, no accessory building shall be
nearer than five feet to the rear lot line, nor nearer than eight feet to any
unattached principal building provided, however, that swimming pools shall not
be nearer than ten feet (10') to the rear lot line, nor nearer than eight feet
(8') to any unattached principal building or accessory building having a
basement, and not closer than five feet (5') to any principal building or
accessory building not having a basement.
      4.   In Side Yards:
         a.   Overhanging eaves and gutters projecting into the yard for a
distance not exceeding forty percent (40%) of the required yard width, but in
no case exceeding two feet (2').
         b.   Enclosed detached off-street parking spaces, but not nearer than
five feet (5') to the side lot line, nor nearer than ten feet (10') to any
principal building.
         c.   Open off-street parking spaces.
   L.   Fences and Walls. Open and closed fences and walls not exceeding four
feet (4') in height above the natural grade level in front yards and closed-
type fences and walls not exceeding six feet (6') in height in side and rear
yards.
      1.   For through lots, a fence not exceeding six feet (6') in height may
be located in a required front yard abutting a street right-of-way where all
the following are met:
         a.   The abutting street right-of-way meets the Federal Functional
Classification definition as a Minor Collector, Major Collector, Minor
Arterial, or Principal Arterial roadway.
         b.   The required front yard abutting the street where the fence is to
be placed is used as a side yard or rear yard and not as a front yard.
         c.   The fence must be set back a minimum of twelve feet (12') from
the right-of-way line. A minimum of one evergreen type plant or comparable
landscape planting shall be placed between said fence and right-of-way line for
every twenty-five (25) linear feet or fraction thereof of fencing. This
requirement shall be waived if the fence is set back more than fifteen feet
(15') from the right-of-way line.
         d.   The required vision clearance area is maintained at street
intersections as specified in 11-11B-12.J.
         e.   All other requirements of this title are met.
      2.   Orientation: The finished side of all fences shall face outward
toward any adjacent property. All support posts and stringers shall face inward
toward the property upon which the fence is located or the subdivision that it
screens (if located on commonly-owned property). (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017; amd.
Ord. 08-22, 5-17-2022)
11-11B-13: SUPPLEMENTAL DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS - HEIGHT:
Except in a planned unit development, no building shall be erected, converted,
enlarged, reconstructed, or structurally altered to exceed the height limit
herein established for the district in which the structure is located, except
that penthouses or roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways,
tanks, ventilating fans, or similar equipment required to operate and maintain
the structures and fire or parapet walls, skylights, steeples, flagpoles,
chimneys, smokestacks, radio and television transmission towers and aerials,
wireless masts, electric and telephone service poles, water tanks, silos,
storage hoppers, elevators, or similar structures may be erected above the
height limits herein prescribed. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-11B-14: SUPPLEMENTAL DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS - RESIDENTIAL USES:
   A.   Space Between Buildings: The minimum horizontal distance between
buildings shall be:
      1.   Ten feet (10') between one-story, two (2)-story, two and one-half
story (2 ½) single-family or two (2)-family buildings or combinations thereof.
      2.   Thirty feet (30') between one-story, two (2)-story, two and one-half
(2 ½) story multi-family buildings or combinations thereof.
      3.   Equal to the height of the taller building in the case of
freestanding unattached buildings other than one, two (2) or two and one-half
(2 ½ ) story buildings.
   B.   Mobile Home Parks in the R-MHP District: Mobile home parks and mobile
home residential use are permitted in the R-MHP district. Following the
effective date of this title, no mobile home shall be located outside of a
mobile home park. A mobile home park is subject to compliance with the
following regulations:
      1.   Certification:
         a.   A certification of compliance with all ordinances and regulations
regarding mobile home licensing, zoning, health, plumbing, electrical,
building, fire protection, and any other applicable requirements shall be
required of all mobile home parks.
         b.   The building official is authorized to perform an annual
inspection of any mobile home park to ensure compliance with these regulations.
         c.   These regulations do not address the structural integrity of any
units within a mobile home park. Compliance with these regulations does not
represent city warrant of the structural integrity of any structure or unit in
such a facility.
      2.   Minimum And Maximum Area: A mobile home park shall be considered to
be one zoned lot. The minimum contiguous area of a mobile home park shall be
two (2) acres.
      3.   Density Requirements:
         a.   The maximum gross density of a mobile home park shall be seven
(7) units per acre.
         b.   The minimum size of an individual mobile home space shall be four
thousand (4,000) square feet for single-wide mobile home units and five
thousand (5,000) square feet for double-wide mobile home units.
         c.   Each mobile home space shall have a width of at least forty feet
(40') and a length of at least seventy five feet (75').
      4.   Site Development Standards:
         a.   Setbacks: Each mobile home park shall have a minimum perimeter
setback of thirty feet (30'). No space for a dwelling unit or any other
structure shall be permitted in the required setback.
         b.   Setback Landscaping: All area contained within the required
setbacks except sidewalks and private drives shall be landscaped and screened
in conformance with Chapter 12 of this title.
         c.   Impervious Coverage: Impervious coverage for a mobile home park
shall not exceed sixty percent (60%) of the total site area.
         d.   Open Space: Each mobile home park shall provide a minimum of four
hundred (400) square feet of open recreational space per unit. Such space shall
be provided at a central location accessible from all parts of the park by
pedestrians. Required perimeter setbacks or buffers shall not be credited
toward the fulfillment of this requirement.
         e.   Separation Between Mobile Home Units: The minimum separation
between a mobile home unit and attached accessory structure and any other
mobile home units and/or accessory structure shall be twenty feet (20').
         f.   Separation And Setbacks For Accessory Buildings: An accessory
building on a mobile home space shall maintain a minimum rear and side yard
setback of five feet (5'). A minimum distance of ten feet (10') shall be
provided between any mobile home and an unattached accessory building.
      5.   Street Access and Circulation Requirements:
         a.   Access to Public Street: Each mobile home park must abut and have
access to a dedicated public street with a right-of-way of at least 60 feet.
Direct access to a mobile home space from a public street is prohibited.
         b.   Vehicular Circulation: The mobile home park must provide interior
vehicular circulation on a private internal street system. Minimum interior
street width shall be twenty seven feet (27'). The street system shall be
continuous and connected with other internal and public streets, or shall have
a cul-de-sac with a minimum diameter of one hundred feet (100'). No such cul-
de-sacs may exceed three hundred feet (300') in length.
         c.   Separation Between Units And Circulation Areas: The minimum
distance between a mobile home unit and any attached accessory structure and
the pavement of an internal street or parking area shall be ten feet (10').
         d.   Sidewalks: Each mobile home park shall provide a sidewalk system
to connect each mobile home space to common buildings or community facilities
constructed for the use of its residents, and to the fronting public right-of-
way. Sidewalk width shall be at least four feet (4').
         e.   Street And Sidewalk Standards: All internal streets and sidewalks
shall be hard-surfaced. Electric street lighting is required along all internal
streets.
         f.   Parking Requirements: Each mobile home park must provide at least
two (2) off-street parking stalls for each mobile home space.
      6.   Utilities:
         a.   All mobile home parks shall provide individual units and common
facilities with an adequate piped supply of hot and cold water for both
drinking and domestic purposes, and standard electrical service, providing at
least one 120-volt and one 240-volt electrical service outlet to each mobile
home space.
         b.   Complete water and sewer service shall be provided within each
mobile home park in accordance with the subdivision ordinance.
         c.   Properly spaced and operating fire hydrants shall be provided for
proper fire protection within each mobile home park in accordance with the
subdivision ordinance.
         d.   All electric, telephone, gas, and other utility lines shall be
installed underground.
      7.   Foundation Requirements:
         a.   All mobile homes shall be secured to the ground by tie-downs and
ground anchors that comply with the requirements of state of Iowa code
requirements.
         b.   All mobile homes shall be blocked at a maximum of ten foot (10')
centers around the perimeter of each unit; such blocking shall provide sixteen
inch by sixteen inch (16" x 16") bearing on the stand.
         c.   Pads shall be a hard surface capable of carrying the weight and
of sufficient length to support all blocking points of the mobile home.
         d.   Each home shall be skirted within thirty (30) days of its
placement in the park. Skirting materials shall be compatible with the exterior
finish of the mobile home.
      8.   Storm Shelters: Storm shelters shall be provided in mobile home
parks. The shelter(s) shall be built according to ICC 500, the International
Code Council/National Storm Shelter Association (ICC/NSSA) Standard for Design
and Construction of Storm Shelters.
      9.   Financial Responsibility: Each application for a mobile home park
shall include a demonstration by the developer of financial capability to
complete the project, and a construction schedule.
      10.   Completion Schedule: Construction must begin on any approved mobile
home park within one year of the date of approval by the planning commission
and city council. Such construction shall be completed within two (2) years of
approval, unless otherwise extended by the Commission. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-11B-15: SUPPLEMENTAL DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS - COMMERCIAL USES:
   A.   Auto Washing Facilities:
      1.   Each conveyor-operated auto washing facility shall provide on-site
stacking space for five (5) vehicles per washing lane on the approach side of
the washing structure and on-site stacking space for two (2) vehicles on the
exit side.
      2.   Each self-service auto washing facility shall provide stacking space
for three (3) automobiles per bay on the approach side and one space per bay on
the exit side of the building.
   B.   Automobile, RV, and Equipment Rental and Sales:
      1.   All outdoor display areas for rental and sales facilities shall be
hard-surfaced.
      2.   Body repair services are permitted as an accessory use to automobile
rental and sales facilities, provided that such repair services shall not
exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the gross floor area of the building.
   C.   Bed And Breakfasts:
      1.   Bed and Breakfasts include Bed and Breakfast Homes, Bed and
Breakfast Hotels, and Bed and Breakfast Inns as defined in Chapter 16 of this
title.
      2.   When permitted in residential districts and urban DCAs, bed and
breakfasts shall include a maximum of four (4) guest units and the residence of
the facility owner.
      3.   Bed and breakfasts permitted in the DMP overlay district must
provide any sleeping facility only on levels above street level, except that
units specifically designed and reserved for occupancy by persons with
disabilities may be located on the street level.
      4.   Bed and breakfasts shall meet the off-street parking requirements as
specified in Chapter 13 of this title. Tandem parking is allowed; however, not
more than two (2) cars per tandem space shall be allowed.
      5.   Signage shall be limited to that permitted for home occupations as
specified in Chapter 14 of this title.
   D.   Campgrounds:
      1.   Minimum Size: Each campground established after the effective date
of this title shall have a minimum size of one acre.
      2.   Setbacks: All campgrounds shall maintain a fifty-foot (50') front
yard setback and a twenty five-foot (25') bufferyard from all other property
lines.
      3.   Each campground must maintain water supply, sewage disposal, and
water and toilet facilities in compliance with all city ordinances; or,
alternately, be limited to use by self-contained campers, providing their own
on-board water and disposal systems.
   E.   Drive-Through Establishments: An adequate number of stacking spaces
must be provided to ensure traffic safety is not compromised. Drive-through
restaurants shall provide a minimum of six (6) vehicle stacking spaces per lane
with a minimum of four (4) stacking spaces before the ordering speaker and two
(2) stacking spaces after the ordering speaker. A minimum of four (4) stacking
spaces shall be provided for banking, pharmacies, and similar nonfood related
drive-through facilities. Stacking spaces shall be defined as being twenty feet
(20') in length and the width of a one lane, one-way drive.
   F.   Adult Entertainment Businesses:
      1.   Location: Adult movie theaters, adult bookstores, and adult
entertainment facilities are prohibited within one thousand feet (1,000) from
the following specified uses or zones:
         a.   Any residential zone (R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5, urban DCA, and
residential PUD developments).
         b.   Any public or private school.
         c.   Any church or religious facility or institution.
         d.   Any public park.
      2.   The distance provided in this section shall be measured by following
a straight line, without regard to intervening buildings, from the nearest
point of the property parcel upon which the proposed use is to be located, to
the nearest point of the parcel of property or the land use district boundary
line from which the proposed land use is to be separated.
      3.   No adult movie theater, adult bookstore, or adult entertainment
facility shall be located closer than three hundred feet (300') to any other
adult movie theater, adult bookstore, or adult entertainment facility.
      4.   Compliance With Other Laws Required: Nothing in this section is
intended to authorize, legalize, or permit the establishment, operation, or
maintenance or any business, building, or use which violates any other
provisions of law. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-11B-16: SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS - INDUSTRIAL USES:
   A.   Automotive Salvage Yards:
      1.   I-2 District: Permitted use if in a completely enclosed building.
      2.   I-3 District: Permitted by special-use permit including wrecking and
dismantling, provided all operations are conducted within an area enclosed on
all sides with an aesthetically-acceptable solid wall or fence not less than
eight feet (8') high so that such operation is not visible from the nearest
street. Such operation shall be properly maintained and kept in acceptable
appearance. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-11B-17: SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS - MISCELLANEOUS USES:
   A.   Wireless Communication Facilities And Overlay District:
      1.   Purpose:
         a.   The city recognizes that the city desires to encourage the
orderly development of wireless communications technologies for the benefit of
the city and its citizens. The city also recognizes the character of the
communities of the city.
         b.   As a matter of public policy, the city aims to encourage the
delivery of new wireless technologies throughout the city while controlling the
proliferation of communication towers. Such development activities will promote
and protect the health, safety, prosperity, and general welfare of persons
living in the city.
         c.   Specifically, this chapter is designed to achieve the following:
            (1)   Implement Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and
Job Creation Act of 2012 ("Spectrum Act"), as interpreted by the Federal
Communications Commission's ("FCC" or "Commission") Acceleration of Broadband
Deployment Report & Order.
      2.   Certain Uses Not Covered: Nothing in this chapter shall reduce any
of the permitted uses of any zoned property within the city. Nothing in this
chapter shall affect the right of a property owner to use or develop their
property consistent with existing zoning regulations. Nothing in this chapter
shall affect the right of a property owner to continue any legal nonconforming
use.
      3.   Interpretation And Definitions:
         a.   Conflicts; Controlling Provisions: To the extent this chapter
conflicts with the zoning ordinance, sign ordinance, or any other ordinance of
the city, this section shall control.
         b.   Rules For Words And Phrases: For the purposes of this chapter,
words used in the present tense include the future tense, words in the singular
number include the plural number, and words in the plural number include the
singular number; the word "shall" is mandatory, the word "may" is permissive;
the word "used" includes "designed" and "intended" or arranged to be used or
occupied; and the word "person" includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, foundation, company, or corporation as well as an
individual.
         c.   Interpretation: For the purpose of this chapter, certain words,
phrases, and terms used herein shall be interpreted as stated in this section.
Unless otherwise defined, other words shall have the meanings normally ascribed
to them. Questions as to interpretation shall be resolved by the board of
adjustment.
         d.   For the purposes of this chapter, the terms used have the
following meanings:
            (1)   Applicant: Any person engaged in the business of providing
wireless telecommunications services or the wireless telecommunications
infrastructure required for wireless telecommunications services and who
submits an application.
            (2)   Application: A request submitted by an applicant to the city
of Bettendorf for the following:
               (a)   An eligible facilities request,
               (b)   To construct a new tower,
               (c)   For the initial placement of transmission equipment on a
wireless support structure,
               (d)   For the modification of an existing tower or existing base
station that constitutes a substantial change to an existing tower or existing
base station, or
               (e)   Any other request to construct or place transmission
equipment that does not meet the definition of an eligible facilities request.
         e.   Base Station:
            (1)   A structure or equipment at a fixed location that enables
FCC-licensed or authorized wireless communications between user equipment and a
communications network. The term does not encompass a tower as defined herein
or any equipment associated with a tower. Base station includes, without
limitation:
               (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications services
such as private, broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed
wireless services and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul.
               (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic
cable, regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless
of technological configuration.
               (c)   Any structure other than a tower that, at the time the
relevant application is filed with the city of Bettendorf under this section,
supports or houses equipment described in Subsection
11-11B-17 A.3.e. of this section that has been reviewed and approved under the
applicable zoning or siting process, or under another state or local regulatory
review process, even if the structure was not built for the sole or primary
purpose of providing that support.
            (2)   The term does not include any structure that, at the time the
relevant application is filed with the city of Bettendorf under this section,
does not support or house equipment described in Subsection
11-11B-17 A.3.e. of this section.
         f.   Collocation: The mounting or installation of transmission
equipment on an eligible support structure for the purpose of transmitting and/
or receiving radio frequency signals for communications purposes.
         g.   Electric Utility: Any owner or operator of electric transmission
or distribution facilities subject to the regulation and enforcement activities
of the Iowa Utilities Board relating to safety standards.
         h.   Eligible Facilities Request: Any request for modification of an
existing tower or base station that does not substantially change the physical
dimensions of such tower or base station, involving:
            (1)   Collocation of new transmission equipment,
            (2)   Removal of transmission equipment, or
            (3)   Replacement of transmission equipment.
         i.   Eligible Support Structure: Any tower or base station as defined
in this section, provided that it is existing at the time the relevant
application is filed with the city of Bettendorf under this section.
         j.   Wireless Support Structure: A structure that exists at the time
an application is submitted and is capable of supporting the attachment or
installation of transmission equipment in compliance with applicable codes,
including but not limited to water towers, buildings, and other structures,
whether within or outside the public right-of-way. "Wireless support structure"
does not include a tower or existing base station.
         k.   Existing: A constructed tower or base station is existing for
purposes of this section if it has been reviewed and approved under the
applicable zoning or siting process, or under another state or local regulatory
review process, provided that a tower that has not been reviewed and approved
because it was not in a zoned area when it was built, but was lawfully
constructed, is existing for purposes of this section.
         l.   Initial Placement Or Installation: The first time transmission
equipment is placed or installed on a wireless support structure.
         m.   Site: For towers not in the public right-of-way, the current
boundaries of the leased or owned property surrounding the tower and any access
or utility easements currently related to the site, and, for other eligible
support structures other than towers, that area in proximity to the structure
and to other transmission equipment already deployed on the ground.
         n.   Substantial Change: A modification substantially changes the
physical dimensions of an eligible support structure if it meets any of the
following criteria:
            (1)   For towers other than towers in the public rights-of-way, it
increases the height of the tower by more than ten percent (10%) or by the
height of one additional antenna array with separation from the nearest
existing antenna not to exceed twenty feet (20'), whichever is greater; for
other eligible support structures, it increases the height of the structure by
more than ten percent (10%) or more than ten feet (10'), whichever is greater;
            (2)   For towers other than towers in the public rights-of-way, it
involves adding an appurtenance to the body of the tower that would protrude
from the edge of the tower more than twenty feet (20'), or more than the width
of the tower structure at the level of the appurtenance, whichever is greater;
for other eligible support structures, it involves adding an appurtenance to
the body of the structure that would protrude from the edge of the structure by
more than six feet (6');
            (3)   For any eligible support structure, it involves installation
of more than the standard number of new equipment cabinets for the technology
involved, but not to exceed four (4) cabinets; or, for towers in the public
rights-of-way and base stations, it involves installation of any new equipment
cabinets on the ground if there are no preexisting ground cabinets associated
with the structure, or else involves installation of ground cabinets that are
more than ten percent (10%) larger in height or overall volume than any other
ground cabinets associated with the structure;
            (4)   It entails any excavation or deployment outside the current
site;
            (5)   It would defeat the concealment elements of the eligible
support structure; or
            (6)   It does not comply with conditions associated with the siting
approval of the construction or modification of the eligible support structure
or base station equipment, provided however that this limitation does not apply
to any modification that is non-compliant only in a manner that would not
exceed the thresholds identified in Subsection
11-11B-17 A.3.n. of this section.
            (7)   Height shall be measured from the original support structure
in cases where deployments are or will be separated horizontally, such as on
buildings' rooftops. Otherwise, height shall be measured from the dimensions of
the tower or base station, inclusive of originally-approved appurtenances and
any modifications that were approved prior to the passage of the Spectrum Act,
Pub. L. No. 112-96, Tit. VI.
         o.   Transmission Equipment: Equipment that facilitates transmission
for any FCC-licensed or authorized wireless communication service including,
but not limited to, radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
and regular and backup power supply. The term includes equipment associated
with wireless communications services including, but not limited to, private,
broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services
and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul.
         p.   Tower. Any structure built for the sole or primary purpose of
supporting any FCC-licensed or authorized antennas and their associated
facilities, including structures that are constructed for wireless
communications services including, but not limited to, private, broadcast, and
public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services and fixed
wireless services such as microwave backhaul, and the associated site.
         q.   Utility Pole: A structure owned or operated by a public utility,
municipality, or electric utility that is designed specifically for and used to
carry lines, cable, or wires for telephone, cable television, or electricity,
or to provide lighting.
         r.   FCC: Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
      4.   Application Review For All Applications:
         a.   Application: Applicant shall complete an application form and
indicate whether their application and intended use is for:
            (1)   An eligible facilities request, construction of a new tower,
            (2)   For the initial placement of transmission equipment on a
wireless support structure,
            (3)   For the modification of an existing tower or existing base
station that constitutes a substantial change to an existing tower or existing
base station, or
            (4)   Any other request to construct or place transmission
equipment that does not meet the definition of an eligible facilities request.
         b.   Zoning And Land Use: The city of Bettendorf exercises zoning,
land use, planning, and permitting authority within the city's territorial
boundaries and within the two (2)-mile limit of the territorial boundaries with
regard to the siting of transmission equipment, subject to the provisions of
Iowa Code Chapter 8C and federal law.
         c.   Application Fee: The application fee including all city of
Bettendorf and third-party fees for review or technical consultation shall be
reasonably related to actual and direct administrative costs according to Iowa
law and are as follows:
            (1)   Five hundred dollars ($500) for eligible facilities request.
            (2)   Five hundred dollars ($500) for new tower.
            (3)   Five hundred dollars ($500) for initial placement or
installation of transmission on a wireless support structure.
            (4)   Five hundred dollars ($500) for modification of an existing
tower that constitutes a substantial modification.
            (5)   Five hundred dollars ($500) for any other application to
construct or place transmission equipment.
            (6)   Technical Assistance: In the course of its consideration of
an application, the city, the zoning administrator, the planning and zoning
commission, or the city council may deem it necessary, in complex situations,
to employ an engineer(s) or other consultant(s) qualified in the design and
installation of wireless telecommunications facilities to assist the city in
the technical aspects of the application. In such cases, any additional
reasonable costs incurred by the city not to exceed one thousand five hundred
($1,500.00) for the technical review and recommendation shall be reimbursed by
the applicant prior to the final decision on the application. Technical
assistance reimbursement shall not apply to applications for eligible
facilities requests.
         d.   Duration Of Approval: The duration of the approval shall not be
limited, except that construction of the approved structure or facilities shall
be commenced within two years of final approval, including the disposition of
any appeals, and diligently pursued to completion.
         e.   Limitation Of Information: The information requested for an
application shall not include information about, or evaluate an applicant's
business decisions with respect to, the applicant's designed service, customer
demand for service, or quality of the applicant's service to or from a
particular area or site.
         f.   Limitation Of Review For Other Potential Locations Or
Collocation: The city of Bettendorf's review will not:
            (1)   Include evaluating the availability of other potential
locations for the placement or construction of a tower or transmission
equipment, or
            (2)   Require applicants to establish other options for collocation
instead of the construction of a new tower or modification of an existing tower
or existing base station that constitutes a substantial change to an existing
tower or existing base station.
         g.   Transmission Equipment And Technology: Application review shall
not dictate the type of transmission equipment or technology to be used by the
applicant or discriminate between different types of infrastructure or
technology.
         h.   Radio Frequency And Environmental Impacts: The city of Bettendorf
shall not:
            (1)   Deny an application, in whole or in part, based on perceived
or alleged environmental effects of radio frequency emissions, as provided in
47 U.S.C. §332(c)(7)(B)(iv), or
            (2)   Establish or enforce regulations or procedures for radio
frequency signal strength or the adequacy of service quality.
            (3)   Impose environmental testing, sampling, or monitoring
requirements or other compliance measures for radio frequency emissions from
transmission equipment that are categorically excluded under FCC rules for
radio frequency emissions pursuant to 47.C.F.R. §1.1307(b)(1).
         i.   Removal: The city of Bettendorf shall not require the removal of
existing towers, base stations, or transmission equipment, wherever located, as
a condition to approval of an application.
         j.   Emergency Power Systems: The city of Bettendorf shall not
prohibit the placement of emergency power systems that comply with federal and
state environmental requirements.
         k.   Surety Requirements: The city of Bettendorf shall not impose
surety requirements, including bonds, escrow, deposits, letters of credit, or
any other type of financial surety, to ensure that abandoned or unused towers
or transmission equipment can be removed.
         l.   Tower Space: The city of Bettendorf shall not condition the
approval of an application on the applicant's agreement to:
            (1)   Provide space on or near the tower, base station, or wireless
support structure for the city of Bettendorf or local governmental or
nongovernmental services at less than the market rate for such space, or
            (2)   Provide other services via the structure or facilities at
less than the market rate for such services.
         m.   Historic Properties And Districts: The city of Bettendorf may
administer and enforce zoning regulations to approve or deny applications for
proposed alterations to exterior features of designated local historic
landmarks. Applicants shall also comply with federal and state historic
property laws.
         n.   Discrimination: The city of Bettendorf shall not discriminate on
the basis of the ownership, including ownership by the city, of any property,
structure, or tower when promulgating rules or procedures for siting wireless
facilities or for evaluating applications.
         o.   Open Records: All records, documents, and electronic data in the
possession or custody of the city of Bettendorf personnel are subject to and
disclosure of such records shall be consistent with Iowa Code Chapter 22.
         p.   Remedies: Applicants and the city of Bettendorf may bring claims
related to this ordinance to any court of competent jurisdiction.
      5.   Application Review For Applications Identified As Eligible
Facilities Requests:
         a.   Application For Eligible Facilities Requests: For those
applications identified by applicant and determined by the city of Bettendorf
to be an eligible facilities request, the application shall be limited to the
information necessary for the city to consider whether an application is an
eligible facilities request. The application may not require the applicant to
demonstrate a need or business case for the proposed modification.
         b.   Type Of Review: Upon receipt of an application for an eligible
facilities request pursuant to this chapter, the community development
department shall review such application to determine whether the application
so qualifies.
         c.   Timeframe For Review: Within sixty (60) days of the date on which
an applicant submits an application seeking approval under this chapter, the
city of Bettendorf shall approve the application unless it determines that the
application is not covered by this chapter.
         d.   Tolling Of The Timeframe For Review: The sixty (60)-day review
period begins to run when the application is filed, and may be tolled only by
mutual agreement by the city and the applicant, or in cases where the city
determines that the application is incomplete. The timeframe for review is not
tolled by a moratorium on the review of applications.
            (1)   To toll the timeframe for incompleteness, the city must
provide written notice to the applicant within thirty (30) days of receipt of
the application, specifically delineating all missing documents or information
required in the application.
            (2)   The timeframe for review begins running again when the
applicant makes a supplemental submission in response to the city's notice of
incompleteness.
            (3)   Following a supplemental submission, the city of Bettendorf
will notify the applicant within ten (10) days that the supplemental submission
did not provide the information identified in the original notice delineating
missing information. The timeframe is tolled in the case of second or
subsequent notices pursuant to the procedures identified in Subsection
11-11B-17 A.5.d. of this section. Second or subsequent notices of
incompleteness may not specify missing documents or information that were not
delineated in the original notice of incompleteness.
         e.   Interaction with Section 332(c)(7) of the United States Federal
Code: If the city determines that the applicant's request is not an eligible
facilities request, the city shall notify applicant in writing and the basis of
its determination. The timeframes under Subsections
11-11B-17 A.6. and
11-11B-17 A.7. of this section will begin to run from the issuance of the city
of Bettendorf's decision that the application is not an eligible facilities
request. To the extent such information is necessary, the city may request
additional information from the applicant to evaluate the application under
Subsections
11-11B-17 A.6. and
11-11B-17 A.7. of this section, pursuant to the limitations applicable to said
sections.
         f.   Failure to Act: In the event the city fails to approve or deny a
request seeking approval under this chapter, within the timeframe for review
(accounting for any tolling), the request shall be deemed granted. The deemed
grant does not become effective until the applicant notifies the city in
writing after the review period has expired (accounting for any tolling) that
the application has been deemed granted.
      6.   Application Review For Applications Identified For New Tower
Construction:
         a.   Application: For those applications identified by applicant and
determined by the city to construct a new tower, the applicant shall submit the
necessary copies and attachments of the application to the community
development department and comply with applicable local ordinances concerning
land use and the appropriate permitting processes.
         b.   Additional Information For Residential Districts: The city may
request propagation maps solely for the purpose of identifying the location of
the coverage or capacity gap or need for applications for new towers in an area
zoned residential.
         c.   Explanation For Proposed Location: Notwithstanding Subsection
11-11B-17 A.4. of this section, the city may require an applicant to provide an
explanation regarding the reason for choosing the proposed location for
construction of a new tower and the reason the applicant did not choose
collocation. The explanation shall include a sworn statement from an individual
who has responsibility over placement of the tower attesting that collocation
within the area determined by the applicant to meet the applicant's radio
frequency engineering requirements for the placement of a site would not result
in the same mobile service functionality, coverage, and capacity, is
technically infeasible, or is economically burdensome to the applicant.
         d.   Review Process:
            (1)   Any applicant desiring to locate at the following sites shall
be allowed to do so as a permitted use with no review necessary beyond approval
of the zoning administrator:
Field Site Name Recommended Wireless Communications Facility Use
Field Site Name                  Recommended Wireless Communications Facility
                                 Use
City hall-police station         190' monopole
Crow Creek Park                  150' self-support
Devils Glen Park                 190' monopole
Eagle Landing boat launch        250' self-support
Edgewood Park                    190' monopole
Hollow View Park                 190' monopole
Learning campus                  190' monopole
Lot 1, Boyd-Russell Addition     198' monopole
Lot 2, Tunberg's Second Addition 190' monopole
Maintenance center               190' monopole
Middle Road firehouse            190' monopole
Palmer Hills Golf Course         190' monopole
Pigeon Creek Park                250' self-support
Spruce Hills firehouse           190' monopole
Any antennas that will be collocated on an existing tower.
  
            (2)   All other applications shall require a special use permit
pursuant to Section
11-15-9 of this title
         e.   Timeframe For Review: Within one hundred fifty (150) days of the
date on which an applicant submits an application seeking approval to construct
a new tower, the city shall approve or deny the application unless another date
is specified in a written agreement between the city and the applicant.
         f.   Tolling Of The Timeframe For Review: The one hundred fifty (150)-
day review period begins to run when the application is filed, and may be
tolled only by mutual agreement by the city of Bettendorf and the applicant, or
in cases where the planning and zoning commission determines that the
application is incomplete. The planning and zoning commission shall review the
application for conformity with applicable local zoning regulations, building
permit requirements, and consistency with this chapter. The timeframe for
review is not tolled by a moratorium on the review of applications.
            (1)   To toll the timeframe for incompleteness, the city must
provide written notice to the applicant within thirty (30) days of receipt of
the application, specifically delineating all missing documents or information
required in the application and the city's timeframe to review is tolled
beginning the date the notice is sent.
            (2)   The city's timeframe of one hundred fifty (150) days for
review begins running again when the applicant makes a supplemental submission
in response to the city's notice of incompleteness.
            (3)   The city's one hundred fifty (150)-day timeframe for review
does not toll if the city requests information regarding any of the
considerations the city may not consider as described in Subsection
11-11B-17 A.4. of this section.
            (4)   Following a supplemental submission, the city will notify the
applicant within ten (10) days that the supplemental submission did not provide
the information identified in the original notice delineating missing
information. The timeframe is tolled in the case of second or subsequent
notices pursuant to the procedures identified in Subsection
11-11B-17 A.5.d. of this section. Second or subsequent notices of
incompleteness may not specify missing documents or information that were not
delineated in the original notice of incompleteness.
            (5)   The city shall make its final decision to approve or
disapprove the application in writing within the timeframe.
         g.   Failure To Act: In the event the city of Bettendorf fails to
approve or deny a request seeking approval under Subsection
11-11B-17 A.6. of this section within the timeframe for review (accounting for
any tolling), the request shall be deemed granted.
      7.   Application Review For Applications Identified For The Initial
Placement Or Installation Of Transmission Equipment On Wireless Support
Structures, Modification Of An Existing Tower Or Existing Base Station That
Constitutes A Substantial Change, Or Other Requests For Construction Or
Placement Of Transmission Equipment That Do Not Constitute Eligible Facilities
Requests:
         a.   Application: For those applications identified by applicant and
determined by the city to be for the initial placement or installation of
transmission equipment on wireless support structures, modification of an
existing tower or existing base station that constitutes a substantial change,
or other requests for construction or placement of transmission equipment that
do not constitute an eligible facilities request, the applicant shall submit
the necessary copies and attachments of the application to the community
development department and comply with applicable local ordinances concerning
land use or regulations concerning land use and zoning and the appropriate
local permitting processes.
         b.   Review Process:
            (1)   Any applicant desiring to locate at the following sites shall
be allowed to do so as a permitted use with no review necessary beyond approval
of the zoning administrator:
Field Site Name Recommended Wireless Communications Facility Use
Field Site Name                  Recommended Wireless Communications Facility
                                 Use
City hall-police station         190' monopole
Crow Creek Park                  150' self-support
Devils Glen Park                 190' monopole
Eagle Landing boat launch        250' self-support
Edgewood Park                    190' monopole
Hollow View Park                 190' monopole
Learning campus                  190' monopole
Lot 1, Boyd-Russell Addition     198' monopole
Lot 2, Tunberg's Second Addition 190' monopole
Maintenance center               190' monopole
Middle Road firehouse            190' monopole
Palmer Hills Golf Course         190' monopole
Pigeon Creek Park                250' self-support
Spruce Hills firehouse           190' monopole
Any antennas that will be collocated on an existing tower.
 
             (2)   All other applications shall require a special use permit
pursuant to Section
11-15-9 of this title.
         c.   Timeframe For Review: Within ninety (90) days of the date on
which an applicant submits an application seeking approval to construct a new
tower, the city shall approve or deny the application unless another date is
specified in a written agreement between the city and the applicant. The
planning and zoning commission shall review the application for conformity with
applicable local zoning regulations, building permit requirements, and
consistency with Iowa Code Chapter 8C.
         d.   Tolling of the Timeframe for Review: The ninety (90)-day review
period begins to run when the application is filed, and may be tolled only by
mutual agreement by the city of Bettendorf and the applicant, or in cases where
the zoning administrator determines that the application is incomplete. The
zoning administrator shall review the application for conformity with
applicable local zoning regulations, building permit requirements, and
consistency with this section. The timeframe for review is not tolled by a
moratorium on the review of applications.
            (1)   To toll the timeframe for incompleteness, the city must
provide written notice to the applicant within thirty (30) days of receipt of
the application, specifically delineating all missing documents or information
required in the application and the city's timeframe to review is tolled
beginning the date the notice is sent.
            (2)   The city's timeframe of ninety (90) days for review begins
running again when the applicant makes a supplemental submission in response to
city's notice of incompleteness.
            (3)   The city's ninety (90)-day timeframe for review does not toll
if the city requests information regarding any of the considerations the city
may not consider as described in Subsection
11-11B-17 A.4. of this section.
            (4)   Following a supplemental submission, the city will notify the
applicant within ten (10) days that the supplemental submission did not provide
the information identified in the original notice delineating missing
information. The timeframe is tolled in the case of second or subsequent
notices pursuant to the procedures identified in Subsection
11-11B-17 A.5.d. of this section. Second or subsequent notices of
incompleteness may not specify missing documents or information that were not
delineated in the original notice of incompleteness.
            (5)   The city shall make its final decision to approve or
disapprove the application in writing within the timeframe.
         e.   Failure To Act: In the event the city fails to approve or deny a
request seeking approval under this section within the timeframe for review
(accounting for any tolling), the request shall be deemed granted.
      8.   Proprietary Leasing Of City Owned Or Controlled Property:
         a.   Leasing Of City Owned Or Controlled Property: The city of
Bettendorf reserves all rights to leasing of city owned or controlled property
but shall offer the market rate value for use of the property.
         b.   Lease Term: Leases shall be for no less than twenty (20) years,
but all or a portion of the property may be subject to release for public
purposes after fifteen (15) years.
         c.   Appraisal Process For Market Value Determination: If the city and
applicant cannot agree on the market rate for a lease on real property or
structures owned by the city, the city shall follow the process in Iowa Code
8C.6.
      9.   Utility Poles: Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, the
city of Bettendorf shall not mandate, require, or regulate the installation,
location, or use of transmission equipment on a utility pole.
         a.   Wind Energy Conservation Systems (WECS):
            (1)   The distance from all lot lines or any building or power line
to any tower support base of a WECS shall be equal to the sum of the tower
height and the diameter of the rotor. A reduction of this requirement may be
granted as part of a special use permit approval if the zoning board of
adjustment, after recommendation by the planning commission, finds that the
reduction is consistent with public health, safety, and welfare.
            (2)   The distance between the tower support bases of any two (2)
WECS shall be the minimum of five (5) rotor lengths, determined by the size of
the largest rotor. A reduction of this requirement may be granted as part of a
conditional use permit approval if the city council, after recommendation by
the planning commission, finds that the reduction does not impede the operation
of either WECS.
            (3)   Any tower or rotor shall maintain a distance of at least one
hundred (100) horizontal feet from any structure, power line, or antenna
located on another property.
            (4)   The WECS operation shall not interfere with radio,
television, computer, or other electronic operations on adjacent properties.
            (5)   A fence eight feet (8') high with a locking gate shall be
placed around any WECS tower base, or the tower climbing apparatus shall begin
no lower than twelve feet (12') above ground.
            (6)   The height of the WECS may exceed the height restrictions of
the base district by up to fifty percent (50%). The bottom tip of any rotor
must be at least ten feet (10') above any area accessible to pedestrians.
         b.   Enclosure Of Operations:
            (1)   In all commercial districts and DCAs where permitted, all
business, servicing, or processing shall be conducted within completely
enclosed buildings, except:
   (a)   Off street parking or loading.
   (b)   Accessory uses when allowed by the special exception procedure.
            (2)   In the I-1 and I-2 districts, all industrial operations,
including off-street loading space, shall take place within completely enclosed
buildings, unless otherwise specified.
            (3)   In the I-3 district, industrial operations may take place
outdoors.
         c.   Outdoor Sales: In all commercial districts and DCAs where
permitted, and in all industrial districts, all outdoor sales space shall be
provided with a permanent durable and dustless surface, and shall be graded and
drained so as to dispose of all surface water.
         d.   Outdoor Storage:
            (1)   In all commercial districts and DCAs where permitted, all
outdoor storage facilities for fuel, raw materials, products, and all
objectionable materials shall be enclosed by a fence, wall, or plant materials
adequate to conceal such facilities from adjacent properties and the public
right-of-way.
            (2)   Industrial Districts:
   (a)   In the I-1 industrial district, no outdoor storage is permitted.
   (b)   In the I-2 industrial district, the outdoor storage of materials,
products and goods is permitted if screened from adjacent properties and the
public right-of-way. Outdoor storage of uncontained bulk materials is
prohibited.
   (c)   In the I-3 industrial district, outdoor storage is permitted. (Ord.
35-17, 10-17-2017)
CHAPTER 12
LANDSCAPING AND BUFFERING STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-12-1: Purpose
11-12-2: Applicability; Exemptions
11-12-3: Definitions
11-12-4: General Requirements and Restrictions
11-12-5: Street Yard Landscaping Requirements
11-12-6: Buffer Yards and Screening
11-12-7: Landscaping Requirements for Vehicular Use Areas
11-12-8: Tree Requirements
11-12-9: Changes to Approved Landscape Plan
11-12-1: PURPOSE:
The landscaping regulations are intended to improve the physical appearance of
the community; to improve the environmental performance of new development by
contributing to the abatement of heat, glare, and noise, by promoting natural
percolation of stormwater and by improving the quality of air; to buffer
potentially incompatible land uses from one another; and to conserve the value
of property and neighborhoods within the city. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-12-2: APPLICABILITY; EXEMPTIONS:
No building permit shall be issued for the construction, reconstruction, or
structural alteration of a building and/or its parking area, nor shall a
certificate of occupancy be granted for a use without conformity with the
provisions of these landscape regulations. However, the following shall be
exempt from the landscape regulations of this chapter:
   A.   Reconstruction or replacement of a lawfully-existing use or structure
following casualty loss.
   B.   Reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvements to existing uses or
structures which do not substantially change the location of structures or the
location and design of parking facilities or other site improvements.
   C.   Additions or enlargements of existing uses or structures, except
surface parking, which increase floor area or impervious coverage by less than
twenty percent (20%). Where such additions or enlargements are twenty percent
(20%) or greater, these provisions shall apply only to that portion of the lot,
site, or common development where the new development occurs.
   D.   Any individual lot occupied by a single-family dwelling or two-family
dwelling. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-12-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be used for terms contained within this
article:
BUFFER YARD: A landscaped area along lot lines provided to separate and
partially obstruct the view of two (2) adjacent land uses or properties from
one another. No structures except fences shall be allowed in a buffer yard.
DECIDUOUS OVERSTORY TREE: A shade-producing woody plant having a mature height
and spread of at least thirty (30) feet with one well-defined trunk and having
no branches at or near the base.
DECIDUOUS SHRUBS: Woody plants that range from three feet to fifteen feet (3'
to 15') tall at maturity and often are multistemmed with low branching.
DECIDUOUS UNDERSTORY TREE: A woody plant at least fifteen feet (15') tall at
maturity with one or more well-defined trunks.
EVERGREEN/CONIFER SHRUB: A woody plant having green needlelike foliage
throughout the year and ranging from three feet to fifteen feet (3' to 15')
tall at maturity and often are multistemmed with low branching.
EVERGREEN/CONIFER TREE: An upright cone-bearing plant having green needlelike
foliage throughout the year and at least fifteen feet (15') at maturity.
LANDSCAPED AREA: That area within the boundaries of a given lot consisting
primarily of plant material including, but not limited to, grass, trees,
shrubs, flowers, vines, ground cover, and other organic plant materials.
Inorganic materials, such as brick, stone, or aggregate, may be used within
landscaped areas, provided that such material comprises no more than thirty
five percent (35%) of the required landscaped area. Flat concrete or asphalt,
other than walkways five feet (5') or less in width, shall be prohibited within
a required landscaped area.
MINIMUM STREET LANDSCAPING: The minimum landscaped area which must be provided
in a street yard, expressed as a percent of the total area contained within
that street yard.
STREET YARD: A contiguous landscaped area along the street right-of-way. The
landscaped area shall be of a depth not less than that established in Section
11-12-5, Table 11-12-5 A.1. of this chapter, and measured from each street
right-of-way line extending perpendicularly into the yard. The maximum depth of
this area for purposes of this title shall not be more than twice the depth of
the area at any other point.
VEHICULAR USE AREA: All areas subject to vehicular traffic including, but not
limited to, accessways, driveways, loading areas, service areas, and parking
stalls for all types of vehicles. This definition shall not apply to covered
parking structures, underground parking lots, or public streets. (Ord. 35-17,
10-17-2017)
11-12-4: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Conflicts: Any conflict between this article and another section of
this title shall be resolved in favor of the more-restrictive provision.
   B.   Landscape Plan Review Procedure: A landscape plan shall be submitted as
part of the site plan review process. If no site plan review is required, a
landscape plan shall be submitted to the city council for approval before any
building permits are issued. The council may approve, approve with conditions,
or deny the application. An applicant should submit twelve (12) copies of the
landscape plan with the application.
   C.   Landscape Plan Contents: A landscape plan at a scale of one inch equals
twenty feet (1" = 20') shall be prepared by a landscape architect or other
similar professional and shall show graphically and label clearly all items
related to the project including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Title, scale, north marker, and date.
      2.   Zoning classification of site and adjoining property.
      3.   Location and dimensions of all retaining walls, fences, walks,
existing and proposed structures, overhead utilities, refuse disposal areas,
electrical and mechanical equipment, and vehicle use areas.
      4.   All lot lines, easements, and rights-of-way.
      5.   All surrounding roads including names.
      6.   The total square footage of the vehicle use areas and the street
yard.
      7.   Any condition listed in Subsection
11-12-6 I. of this chapter.
      8.   Location, scientific name, common name, quantity, and size of all
existing plant materials and designation of all vegetation to remain and/or be
removed.
      9.   Proposed landscape plantings by location, scientific name, common
name, quantity, planting size, and planting method. A plant list should be
provided listing this information and keyed to plant locations on the plan.
      10.   Plant installation details.
      11.   Contours at one-foot intervals of all proposed berms and the area
within the drip line of all trees to be preserved.
      12.   Drainage and detention areas.
      13.   Any other feature as determined necessary by the community
development director.
      14.   Elevations, cross sections, and other details as determined
necessary by the community development director.
      15.   Designation of area to be used for snow storage.
   D.   Common Development: A common development that includes more than one
lot or site shall be treated as one lot or site for the purposes of satisfying
the requirements of this article.
   E.   Previously-Approved Site Plans: Any site plan or landscaping plan
approved by the planning and zoning commission prior to the effective date
hereof shall remain enforceable and in force.
   F.   Final Calculations: All final calculations of required landscaping
shall be rounded up to the next whole number if the tenths place is equal to or
greater than five (5). All final calculations used to determine the required
landscaping shall be rounded down to the next whole number if the tenths place
is less than five (5).
   G.   Installation: All landscaping required by this article shall be
installed prior to occupancy or commencement of a use. If the landscaping
cannot be installed prior to occupancy or commencement of a use because of
climatic conditions, the building inspector may issue a temporary certificate
of occupancy and grant a delay of landscaping installation until the calendar
date of June 1 immediately following the date of said temporary certificate of
occupancy. However, in such case, the applicant shall post a surety or cash
bond equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the total cost of the
landscaping. No final certificate of occupancy shall be issued until the
landscaping is installed as approved. All landscaping shall be installed in
accord with the guidelines set forth in a handbook developed and occasionally
updated by the community development department.
   H.   Maintenance Of Required Landscaping: Upon installation or preservation
of required landscape materials, appropriate measures shall be taken to ensure
their continued health and maintenance. Required materials that do not remain
healthy shall be replaced consistent with the approved landscape plan. Specific
maintenance requirements shall be set forth in a handbook developed and
occasionally updated by the community development department.
   I.   Obstruction Of View: Landscaping installed in any landscaped area shall
be in accordance with the visibility requirements outlined in Subsection
11-11B-12 J. of this title.
   J.   Rights-Of-Way, Easements, And Drainage: Required landscaping shall not
disturb drainage systems or be placed upon easements or rights-of-way.
   K.   Material Standards: All landscape material required by this title shall
conform to the regulations set forth in a handbook developed by the community
development department. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-12-5: STREET YARD LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
Landscaping shall be provided within street yards and encompass the minimum
depth as set forth in Table 11-12-5 A.1. of this section:
   Table 11-12-5A1 Street Yard Landscaping 
Districts Minimum Depth (Feet)
Districts Minimum Depth (Feet)
A-1       50
A-2       40
R-1       30
R-2       25
R-3       25
R-4       20
R-5       20
C-1       20
C-2       15
C-3       15
C-6       50
C-7       15
I-1       45
I-2       20
I-3       45
 
(Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-12-6: BUFFER YARDS AND SCREENING:
   A.   Buffer Yard Requirements: A buffer yard shall be required when a use is
established in a more-intensive zoning district which is adjacent to a less-
intensive zoning district. The owner or developer of the property within the
more-intensive district shall install and maintain a landscaped buffer yard on
said property as set forth in this article. Buffer yard requirements apply only
to those districts indicated in
Table 11-12-6 A.1. of this section. When the development is adjacent to
property which is zoned A-1 and likely to be developed, the land-use policy
plan can be used as a guide to determining the future zoning and hence the
buffer yard requirements in anticipation of that future zoning:
   Table 11-12-6A1 Buffer Yard Requirements
Adjacent, Less Intensive District
  A-1 A-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 R-5 C-1 C-2 C-3 C-6 C-7
Adjacent, Less Intensive District
                 A-1 A-2 R-1 R-2 R-3           R-4 R-5 C-1 C-2 C-3 C-6 C-7
            R-4 See Table
                 11-12-6 A.2 . of this section
            R-5 See Table
                 11-12-6 A.2 . of this section
             C-1 20  20  20  20  20            10  10
                         See Table
            C-2 25  25  11-12-6 A.3 . of this 15  15
More Intense             section
District                 See Table
             C-3 30  30  11-12-6 A.3  of this  20  20
                         section
            C-6 25  25  25  25  25            15  15
            C-7 30  30  30  30  30            20  20
            I-1 30  30  30  30  30            20  20  10  10  10  10  10
            I-2 60  60  60  60  60            50  50  40  40  30  30  30
            I-3 70  70  70  70  70            60  60  50  40  30  40  40
 
Table
11-12-6 A.2. establishes required buffer yards in the R-4 and R-5 zoning
districts and applies only when the adjacent district is zoned A-1, A-2, R-1,
R-2 or R-3:
   Table 11-12-6A2
 
Maximum Height Of Building Nearest Common Property Line  Buffer Yard Required
(Feet)                                                   (Feet)
0 - 15 feet                                              15
15+ - 35                                                 20
Over 35                                                  30
 
Table
11-12-6 A.3. establishes required buffer yards relative to building height in
the C-1, C-2, and C-3, C-6, C-7 zoning districts when adjacent to R-1, R-2, and
R-3 zoning districts:
   Table 11-12-6A3
 
Maximum Height Of Building Nearest Common Property Buffer Yard Required (Feet)
Line (Feet)
0 - 45                                             30
46 - 60                                            40
61-75                                              50
Over 75                                            60
   B.   Districts With Common Lot Lines: When the use in the more-intensive
zoning district has a common lot line with a less-intensive zoning district,
the required buffer yard is set forth in Table
11-12-6 A.1. of this section.
   C.   Districts With Intervening Alley: When an alley separates adjacent
districts requiring a buffer yard, one-half the width of the alley shall be
credited toward meeting the required buffer yard.
   D.   Districts With Intervening Major Street: When an expressway or primary
street, as shown on the thoroughfare plan, separates adjacent districts
requiring a buffer yard, the required buffer yard shall be the greater of one-
half the required buffer yard as set forth in Table
11-12-6 A.1. of this section or the minimum depth of street front landscaping
provided in Section
11-12-5, Table 11-12-5A1, of this chapter.
   E.   Districts With Intervening Secondary Street: When a secondary or local
street, as shown on the thoroughfare plan, separates adjacent districts
requiring a buffer yard, the required buffer yard shall be the greater of the
required buffer yard set forth in Table
11-12-6 A.1. of this section or the minimum depth of front yard landscaping
provided in Section
11-12-5, Table 11-12-5 A.1., of this chapter.
   F.   Railroad Right-of-Way: Any lot or site which is adjacent to an active
railroad right-of-way shall be exempt from any buffer yard requirement along
the common property line with such right-of-way.
   G.   Required Screening: Screening is required on all properties requiring a
buffer yard when one or more of the following conditions in the more intensive
zoning districts is directly visible from the boundary of the less intensive
zoning district:
      1.   Outdoor storage areas.
      2.   Loading/unloading areas, refuse collection points, and other service
areas.
      3.   Major machinery or areas housing a manufacturing process.
      4.   Vehicular use areas.
      5.   Sources of glare, noise, or other environmental effects.
      6.   On and above-grade electrical and mechanical equipment, including,
but not limited to, transformers, heat pumps, and air conditioners.
      7.   Satellite dishes.
      8.   Other noxious uses as determined by the planning director.
   H.   Placement: Screening shall be installed no closer to the less-intensive
district than one-half the width of the required buffer yard.
   I.   Surface Water Drainage: Screening shall not adversely affect surface
water drainage.
   J.   Material Standards For Screening: Any screening material required by
this title shall be an opaque barrier at least six feet (6') in height in all
yards except the front yard which shall be between two and one-half feet and
three feet (2 ½’ and 3') in height. The design of the screen shall be such as
to completely obscure the view of the noxious use from the neighboring
property. The following are acceptable barriers:
      1.   A solid wood and/or masonry fence or wall of a design approved by
the community development director.
      2.   A hedge or random, informal screen of conifer (evergreen) plant
material attaining the required minimum height within three (3) years of
planting. The initial height of plantings shall not be less than one-half the
required minimum height.
      3.   A landscaped earth berm with a maximum slope of three to one (3:1),
rising no less than the required minimum height above the existing grade of the
lot line separating the zoning districts.
      4.   Any combination of these methods that achieves a cumulative height
no less than the required minimum height.
   K.   Maintenance Of Screening: Landscaping used to meet screening
requirements must be maintained as specified in Subsection
11-12-4 H. of this section. Fences and walls provided for screening purposes
must be maintained to both retain their screening effectiveness and to retain
their original quality of appearance. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-12-7: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICULAR USE AREAS:
   A.   Interior Landscaping Area:
      1.   For vehicular use, areas greater than four thousand (4,000) square
feet but less than thirty thousand (30,000) square feet, an area equivalent to
a minimum five percent (5%) of the total vehicular use area shall be
landscaped. The required landscaped area shall be located in the interior of
the vehicular use area.
      2.   For vehicular use areas greater than thirty thousand (30,000) square
feet, an area equivalent to a minimum of seven percent (7%) of the total
vehicular use area shall be landscaped. The required landscaped area shall be
located in the interior of the vehicular use area.
      3.   Vehicular use areas less than four thousand (4,000) square feet
shall be exempt from interior landscaping requirements.
      4.   Interior landscaping may be provided in the corners of the parking
area, islands, and strip plantings.
   B.   Parking: Parking shall be allowed in the front yard of properties
conforming to the requirements of these landscape regulations. However, the
minimum depth requirement of landscaping set forth in Section
11-12-5 of this chapter shall be strictly adhered to.
   C.   Barriers: There shall be sufficient barriers to protect all landscaped
areas from vehicular damage.
   D.   Area Termination: The vehicular use area must terminate at least five
feet (5') from any exterior building wall. Exceptions may be made where it is
necessary to cross the non-vehicular use area to gain access to the buildings
and for drive-up facilities, such as banks and restaurants.
   E.   Front Yard: If any vehicular use area, other than a driveway, is
located within the required front yard, screening shall be provided between
said vehicular use area and the front property line.
   F.   Parking Structures: Landscaping sufficient to achieve the stated intent
of these regulations shall be required for covered and underground parking
structures as determined by the community development director. (Ord. 35-17,
10-17-2017)
11-12-8: TREE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Provision Of Trees: One "tree factor" shall be required for every seven
hundred (700) square feet of an area determined by multiplying the minimum
depth of the street yard and the width of the lot. A credit of one percent (1%)
of the tree factor shall be granted for every three percent (3%) that the area
of the street yard exceeds the minimum area acceptable. The tree factors used
to meet this requirement shall be located within the street yard. In any other
landscaped area required by these regulations, one "tree factor" shall be
planted and maintained for each five hundred (500) square feet of such
landscaped area. One "tree factor" shall equal one deciduous overstory tree or
its equivalent as set forth in a handbook developed and occasionally updated by
the community development department.
   B.   Credit For Preservation Of Existing Trees: Existing trees approved by
the community development director for preservation shall be counted toward
satisfaction of this provision. Preservation of each healthy existing tree of
an approved species shall count as double the tree factor credit as set forth
in a handbook developed and occasionally updated by the community development
department. Additional credit can be counted toward the tree requirement for
the preservation of exceptional trees as determined by the community
development director.
   C.   Protection Of Existing Trees To Be Preserved: Fences shall be
constructed five feet (5') outside of the drip line of all trees to be
preserved. No grading, filling, or other construction activity shall occur
within the fence. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-12-9: CHANGES TO APPROVED LANDSCAPE PLAN:
The landscaping shall be installed and maintained according to the approved
landscape plan except where authorized changes are permitted. The approved
landscape plan and supporting data shall be binding on the applicants, their
successors, grantees, and assigns:
   A.   Major Changes: A change in the approved site development plan or
landscape plan which alters the landscape requirements or the concept or intent
of the landscape design, including, but not limited to, a change in the vehicle
use area, type of screening, and general location, size, or type of landscape
materials, shall be approved only by submission of a new site plan in
accordance with the procedures previously set forth for the approval of site
development plans.
   B.   Minor Changes: The city planner may approve minor changes in the site
development plan which do not change the concept or intent of the development.
   C.   Approved Plans Superseded By Approved Revised Plans: All approved
landscape plans superseded by an approved revised landscape plan shall be
considered to be null and void at the time of approval of the revised plan.
(Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
CHAPTER 13
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING 
SECTION:
11-13-1: Purpose
11-13-2: General Requirements and Restrictions
11-13-3: Location
11-13-4: Combined Space
11-13-5: Sharing of Space
11-13-6: Design, Development, and Maintenance
11-13-7: Schedule of Off-Street Parking Requirements
11-13-8: Plot Plan
11-13-9: Modifications
11-13-10: Off-Street Loading
11-13-11: Temporary Parking of Recreational Vehicles
11-13-12: Bicycle Parking
11-13-1: PURPOSE:
The off-street parking regulations require that developments provide parking in
proportion to the need created by each use. The regulations further establish
standards for the functional design of parking facilities. These regulations
are intended to accommodate vehicles in a functionally satisfactory manner and
to minimize external effects on neighboring properties. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-
2017)
11-13-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The duty to provide and maintain off-street parking space shall be the
joint and several responsibility of the operator and/or owner of the use and/or
land for which off-street parking space is required to be provided and
maintained.
   B.   For land, structures, or uses actually used, occupied, or operated on
the effective date hereof, there shall be provided such off-street parking
space as was required for such land, structures, or uses by any previous
ordinance. If such land, structures, or uses are enlarged, expanded, or changed
through the addition of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity,
additional employment, or other unit of measurement specified herein, there
shall be provided, for that increment of expansion only, at least the amount of
off-street parking space that would be required hereunder if the increment were
a separate land, structure, or use established or placed into operation after
the effective date hereof.
   C.   For all uses established or placed into operation after the effective
date hereof, there shall be constructed, provided, preserved, and maintained
the amount of off-street parking space hereinafter set forth.
   D.   Whenever the intensity of use of any structure or premises shall be
increased through the addition of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating
capacity, additional employment, or other unit of measurement, such additional
parking as required herein to provide for the expanded use shall be provided.
   E.   Whenever the existing use of a building, structure, or land area is
changed to a new use, parking facilities shall be provided as required by the
new use. However, if the use existed prior to the effective date hereof,
parking is required only in the amount that the new use would exceed the
requirements for the existing use if the latter were subject to the parking
provisions of this chapter.
   F.   Parking in existence on the effective date hereof, or that was provided
voluntarily after such effective date, shall not hereafter be reduced below, or
if already less than, shall not further be reduced below the requirements of
this chapter for a new use.
   G.   All off-street parking space, whether or not required by this chapter
and when provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter or in
accordance with the provisions of any former ordinance, shall be used,
maintained, and operated as hereinafter required.
   H.   Parking for all types of uses may be provided either in garages or open
parking areas conforming to the provisions of this chapter.
   I.   Where sufficient existing "public parking facilities" are located so as
to provide or supplement part or all of the required parking space, the board
of adjustment may reduce the number of spaces required for a particular use or
group of uses.
   J.   Parking may be with or without charge. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-13-3: LOCATION:
Off-street parking space shall be located on the same zoning lot as the use for
which provided, except as otherwise specifically provided:
   A.   Off-Site Parking Lots: Pursuant to the procedure hereinafter set forth,
either part or all of the required off-street parking space may be located off
the lot of the use for which the space is provided. The following limitations
shall apply to off-site parking lots:
      1.   Separation From Use: Off-street parking shall be located as
hereinafter specified. Where a distance is specified, such distance shall be
the walking distance measured from the nearest point of the parking facility to
the nearest point of the building that such facility is required to serve.
         a.   In all commercial districts, parking facilities shall be located
within three hundred feet (300') of the building they are required to serve.
         b.   In all industrial districts, parking facilities shall be located
within six hundred feet (600') of the building they are required to serve.
      2.   Application: All applications for approval of an off-site parking
lot shall be filed with staff by the owners of the entire land area to be
included within the off-site parking lot plan, the owner or owners of all
structures then existing on said land area, and all encumbrances of said land
area and structures; shall contain sufficient evidence to establish that the
applicants are the owners and encumbrances of the designated land and
structures; shall contain such information and representations required by this
title or deemed necessary; and shall include site plans showing the following
details:
         a.   The location of the uses or structures for which off-street
parking space is required.
         b.   The location at which the off-street parking space is to be
provided.
      3.   Procedure: All applicants shall be reviewed and approved under
normal site plan review procedures, as indicated in Appendix 1 of this code.
Any approval may establish necessary conditions and limitations.
         a.   Upon approval of an off-street parking site plan, a copy of such
plan shall be registered and recorded among the records of the city.
         b.   All off-site parking lot site plans registered and recorded
hereunder shall be binding upon the applicants for such site plans, their
successors and assigns, shall limit and control the issuance and validity of
all zoning permits and zoning certificates, and shall restrict and limit the
use and operation of all land and structures included within such special plans
to all conditions and limitations specified in such plans and the approvals
thereof.
         c.   All off-site parking lot site plans registered and recorded
hereunder may be amended pursuant to the same procedure and subject to the same
limitations and requirements by which such plans were approved, registered, and
recorded.
         d.   Upon application to the board of adjustment by the owner or
owners of the entire area included within any "special location plan"
registered and recorded hereunder, the owner or owners of any structure then
existing thereon and all encumbrances of said land and structures, any such
plan may be withdrawn, either partially or completely, from registration and
released from recording if all uses, land, and structures remaining under such
plan can be made to comply with all conditions and limitations of the plan and
all uses, land, and structures withdrawn from such plan can be made to comply
with all regulations established by this title and unrelated to any off-site
parking lot site plan.
   B.   Front Yard: In any residential district, required off-street parking
shall not be located in any front yard. No vehicle shall be parked in any front
yard except upon a regularly-constructed driveway. In single-family residential
areas, said driveway width shall be not greater than thirty feet (30') where
the driveway approach meets the sidewalk. Parking lots may be allowed in a
front yard if authorized by the board of adjustment, provided that the district
does not require that the front yard be landscaped and devoted to no other use,
and further provided that the parking is in accord with all other ordinance
provisions.
   C.   Side And Rear Yard: Parking space that is open to the sky may be
located in a required side or rear yard, but only if an unobstructed space of
five feet, and ten feet where abutting a residential district, is left along
the lot line. If the specific district regulations are more permissive, their
requirements shall apply.
   D.   Parkway: No parking shall be permitted between the property line and
the curb line or edge of the pavement of the street. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-13-4: COMBINED SPACE:
Off-street parking space shall be provided for each use. However, two or more
uses located on the same zoning lot may jointly provide for one combined
parking facility.
   A.   Where off-street parking space is combined and used jointly by two (2)
or more uses having different standards for determining the amount of off-
street parking space required, the parking space shall be adequate in area to
provide the sum total of off-street parking space requirements of all such
uses.
   B.   Where off-street parking space is combined and used jointly by two (2)
or more uses having the same standard for determining the amount of off-street
parking space required, all such uses, for the purposes of this chapter, shall
be considered a single unit and the gross floor area of all such uses in all
structures on the same lot or the number of employees of all such uses in all
structures on the same lot as fixed by the applicable standard, shall be taken
as a single total for the purpose of determining the amount of off-street
parking space required. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-13-5: SHARING OF SPACE:
Two (2) or more uses may share the same off-street parking space if the
schedules of operation of all such uses are such that none of the uses sharing
the space requires the off-street parking space at the same time as any other
use sharing the space. Each such use that is sharing space shall be considered
as having provided such shared space individually. This provision is subject to
the following two (2) exceptions for special uses and planned mixed-use
projects:
   A.   When the applicant can provide justification for reduced parking, the
board of adjustment may adjust the minimum requirements of this section, in
order to provide design, usability, attractiveness, or protection to adjoining
uses in a manner equal to or greater than the minimum requirements of this
section.
   B.   In mixed-use projects developed under the DCA provisions of this title,
different uses may have complementary parking requirements. This can result in
a parking requirement that is less than the sum of parking required for each
use and added separately. The planning commission may authorize an adjustment
to the total parking requirement for separate uses located as part of a common
development, or for separate uses located on adjacent sites and served by
common parking facilities. All parking facilities subject to the mixed-use
adjustment must be located in a common facility, equally accessible and usable
to all served uses. (Ord. 05-23, 1-17-2023)
11-13-6: DESIGN, DEVELOPMENT, AND MAINTENANCE:
Every parcel of land hereafter used as a public or private parking area,
including a commercial parking lot and also an automobile or trailer sales lot,
shall be designed, developed, and maintained in accordance with the following
requirements:
   A.   In the residential districts, unless fully enclosed, parking areas
shall be used only by vehicles up to three-fourths (3/4) ton manufacturer's
capacity rating.
   B.   Off-street parking areas shall not be used for the sale, repair,
dismantling, or servicing of any vehicles, equipment, materials, or supplies,
except when parking is a permitted principal or special use.
   C.   Off-street parking areas shall be provided with an asphaltic concrete,
Portland cement concrete, or brick surfacing maintained at all times in such a
manner as to prevent the release of dust and to be free of dust, trash, and
debris. If such surfacing would be detrimental because of the excessive runoff
of stormwater, the board of adjustment may direct such area to be left unpaved
and designed to remain dust free and attractive. All required parking spaces
shall be delineated by permanent striping of parking surface.
   D.   Off-street parking areas shall be pitched and drained so as to prevent
the flow of water from such areas onto adjoining property or onto streets or
alleys that have no drainage facilities.
   E.   Off-street parking areas for more than four (4) vehicles, that adjoin
or are across the street from property zoned for any residential use, shall
have adequate screening in accord with Section
11-12-6 of this title.
   F.   Off-street parking areas shall be provided with entrances and exits not
less than twelve feet (12') in width and so located as to minimize traffic
congestion.
   G.   Off-street parking areas shall be provided with curbs, wheel guards, or
bumper guards so located that no part of a parked or moving vehicle extends
beyond the property line.
   H.   Where hazards exist which can be eliminated or lessened by lighting,
the board of adjustment may require lighting at such hours and in such manner
as deemed necessary in the interest of public safety and security. Such
lighting facilities shall be so arranged that they neither unreasonably disturb
occupants of adjacent residential properties nor interfere with traffic.
   I.   Off-street parking areas may have not more than one attendant shelter
building conforming to all setback requirements for structures in the district
in which it is located.
   J.   Off-Street Parking Design Standards:
      1.   Parking Module Design (From SUDAS Design Manual): The drive aisle is
the space between two (2) parking stalls directly across from one another. The
term "module" refers to the width of the drive aisle combined with the length
of the parking stalls on one or both sides of the drive aisle. Table
 11-13-6J of this section lists recommended minimum dimensions for parking
facilities.
      2.   The only dimension that varies by stall width is the interlock
dimension. An interlock occurs with angled parking when two (2) stalls in
adjacent modules align. The overlap at the front of the stalls is the interlock
dimension. When a parking facility is designed to take advantage of interlock,
the effective width of the module may be reduced by the interlock dimension.
For aisles with interlocking spaces on both sides, the effective width of the
module may be reduced by two (2) times the interlock distance. This approach
can provide a more-efficient parking lot facility and reduce the overall
surface area required for the parking lot.
      3.   Because snow can obscure pavement markings, vehicles will often pull
too far into a parking space, which reduces the width of the aisle in the
adjacent module. This has been taken into consideration in Table
11-13-6J of this section. Therefore, when a curb, wall, or other physical
restraint is provided for on at least thirty percent (30%) of the stalls, the
aisle width (and therefore the overall module width) may be reduced by one
foot.
   Table 11-13-6J: Minimum Parking Dimensions
   (Source: Adapted from Urban Land Institute, National Parking Association)
                      Parking Angle
Parking Lot Dimension Two-Way Aisle One-Way Aisle
                      90°60°45°  60°45°
                                   Parking Angle
Parking Lot Dimension              Two-Way Aisle         One-Way Aisle
                                   90°   60°    45°   60°   45°
Wall to Interlock                  60'-0" 55'-10" 52'-2" 49'-4" 44'-0"
Interlock to Interlock             60'-0" 53'-8"  49'-2" 47'-2" 41'-0"
Overhang                           2'-6"  2'-2"   1'-9"  2'-2"  1'-9"
            8'-6" Width Projection 8'-6"  9'-10"  12'-0" 9'-10" 12'-0"
Stall Width       Interlock        0'-0"  2'-2"   3'-0"  2'-2"  3'-0"
            9'-0" Width Projection 9'-0"  10'-5"  12'-9" 10'-5" 12'-9"
                  Interlock        0'-0"  2'-3"   3'-2"  2'-3"  3'-2"
Note 1: Aisle width may be increased up to three feet (3') to provide a higher
level of comfort.
Note 2: In lots where at least thirty percent (30%) of stalls have curbs, aisle
width may be reduced by 1'-0".
Note 3: Light poles and columns may provide a maximum of two feet into a
parking module as long as they do not encroach on more than thirty percent
(30%) of the stalls. When more than thirty percent (30%) of the stalls are
encroached, interlock reductions cannot be taken.
Note 4: For additional parking angles, refer to The Dimensions of Parking, ULI,
NPA.
      4.   Perpendicular parking provides the greatest number of parking spaces
for a given a length of aisle. One-way angled parking provides fewer spaces
than perpendicular for the same length of aisle, but has the advantage of a
narrower drive aisle. Because of this, the surface area per parking space for
perpendicular and angled one-way parking is approximately equal.
      5.   Two-way angled parking is also allowable and can be useful in
certain situations; however, it is a less-efficient design than two-way
perpendicular or one-way angled parking. Two-way angled parking cannot take
full advantage of the narrower drive aisle, requiring approximately ten to
fifteen percent (10% to 15%) more area per parking space than perpendicular or
one-way angled parking.
Figure 11-13-6J: Parking Dimensions
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6d90355c3edd99c1b60b73fa8fb1172995fa44e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3189.jpg] 
      6.   Landscape and Screening Requirements: Landscape requirements for
off-street parking facilities are set forth in
Chapter 12 of this title.
      7.   Entrances and Exits:
         a.   Adequate access to each parking facility shall be provided by
means of clearly defined and limited driveways or access points. Such driveways
shall be designed to direct non-residential traffic away from residential
areas.
         b.   Parking facilities other than driveways for single-family,
duplex, two-family, or mobile home residential uses must permit vehicles to
enter streets in a forward position.
         c.   Head-in parking from any public right-of-way shall be permitted
only in the CBD district, or as part of a specific planned unit development
design.
      8.   Design And Pedestrian Access:
         a.   To reduce the visual impact of large parking lots, such lots
should be divided into smaller parking fields. Divisions should be made with
landscape strips, peninsulas, or grade changes.
         b.   Sidewalks and walkways in commercial developments should link to
the city's sidewalk and trail system where available, and shall provide for
pedestrian accessibility from adjacent public sidewalks and trails.
   K.   All open or unused areas shall be landscaped and continuously
maintained. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-13-7: SCHEDULE OF OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Parking facilities for each use shall be provided in accordance with
the minimum requirements set forth in Tables
11-13-7B1,
B2, and
B3 in this section, except as follows.
      1.   Interim/Temporary Uses. The City Administrator shall have the
authority to waive or modify the requirements contained in Chapter 11-13, Off
Street Parking and Loading for interim/temporary uses anywhere within the city,
so long as such use does not last more than 30 days. It shall be the duty of
the property owner or tenant proposing such a use to request in writing a
waiver or modification, at least 30 days prior to the use occurring. Requests
shall be directed to the Community Development Director.
      2.   Modifications and Waivers to Off-Street Parking Requirements in the
Downtown Masterplan Overlay District. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall
review and recommend to the City Council and the City Council may approve by
formal action to waive or modify the requirements specified in Chapter 11-13,
Off Street Parking and Loading for specific developments within the Downtown
Master Plan Overlay District upon approval of a parking plan that is consistent
with the intent of this chapter and when strict application of the code would
result in unnecessary hardship. The developer must submit a parking plan to the
Community Development Director that include provisions for:
         a.   Improved parking meeting all City design requirements meeting at
least fifty percent (50%) of the required parking.
         b.   User safety, including lighting and site security.
         c.   The required number of ADA parking stalls per Code.
         d.   Adequate site drainage.
         e.   Safe vehicle access to and egress from the parking lot.
         f.   A parking operations plan including methods to eliminate any
impacts to adjacent or nearby properties.
   B.   Computation:
      1.   When units of measurement result in the requirement of a fractional
space, any fraction shall require one parking space.
      2.   Unless otherwise indicated, parking requirements are based on gross
floor area. For parking calculation purposes, the gross floor area of a
building designed for tenant or owner occupancy and exclusive use, including
basements, mezzanines, and upper floors, if any, is expressed in square feet
measured from the centerlines of joint partitions and exteriors of outside
walls. It shall not include areas used principally for utilities and space
incidental to the management or maintenance of the building.
      3.   Dwelling Unit: A "dwelling unit" shall mean one room or a suite of
two (2) or more rooms, designed for or used by one family for living and
sleeping purposes and having only one kitchen or kitchenette.
      4.   Seat Or Bench: A seat shall be the space intended for one
individual. In places where patrons or spectators occupy benches, pews, or
other seating facilities, each twenty inches (20") of such seating facilities
shall be counted as one seat.
      5.   Employees: Employees shall be based on the maximum number of persons
on duty or residing, or both, on the premises at any one time.
      6.   When parking requirements are computed on the basis of capacity,
capacity shall be determined by the building code or other official
determinations of occupancy in effect for the city of Bettendorf at the time
the use is established.
   Table 11-13-7B1: Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements
Agricultural Use Types
Horticulture                        One space per 1,000 square feet of sales
                                    area.
Crop/Animal Production              No requirement
Residential Use Types
Single-Family Residential           Two spaces per dwelling unit.
Duplex Residential                  Two spaces per dwelling unit.
                                    Two spaces shall be provided for each
                                    dwelling unit greater than or equal to 800
Multi-Family Residential            square feet in area. One and one-half (1-1/
                                    2) spaces shall be provided for each
                                    dwelling unit less than 800 square feet in
                                    area.
                                    One and one-half (1-1/2) spaces for each
Downtown Residential                dwelling unit up to 800 square feet or two
                                    spaces for units over 800 square feet.
                                    One parking space shall be provided for
Group Residential or Boarding House each three active members, plus one parking
                                    space for the manager, and each employee
                                    thereof.
Mobile Home Residential             Two spaces per dwelling unit.
                                    One and one-half (1-1/2) spaces per
Retirement Residence                independent living unit; 0.5 spaces per
                                    assisted living unit.
Civic Use Types
Administration                      One space for 300 square feet of gross
                                    floor area.
Cemetery                            No requirement.   
Clubs                               One space per four-person capacity in
                                    largest assembly area.
                                    One parking space shall be provided for
                                    each two students (based on the maximum
College/University                  number of students that the facility is
                                    designed to handle at any one time), plus
                                    one for each two employees.
Convalescent Services               One space for four beds.
Cultural Services                   One space per 500 square feet of gross
                                    floor area.
Day Care Services                   One space per five-person capacity + one
                                    space per employee of largest shift.
Group Care Facility                 One space per four-person capacity + one
                                    space per employee of largest shift.
Group Home                          One space per four-person capacity + one
                                    space per employee of largest shift.
Guidance Services                   One space per 300 square feet.
Health Care                         One space per 300 square feet + one space
                                    per employee of largest shift.
Hospitals                           One space per two beds + one space per
                                    employee of the largest shift.
                                    See
Maintenance Facilities              Schedule A equipment servicing or
                                    manufacturing
Parks and Recreation                Established by an approved site master plan
                                    based on comparable uses.
Postal Facilities                   One space per 200 square feet, plus one
                                    space per work vehicle.
                                    Two parking spaces shall be provided for
                                    each classroom. However, if a place of
                                    assembly is provided in the school and the
Primary Education                   parking spaces provided for the place of
                                    assembly are equal to or in excess of the
                                    requirements for the classrooms, the
                                    classroom requirement need not be provided.
                                    One parking space shall be provided for
Public Assembly                     each five seats or parking spaces equal to
                                    one-fifth (1/5) the capacity of the
                                    facility in persons.
Religious Assembly                  One space per four-person capacity in
                                    largest assembly area.
Safety Services                     One space per employee of maximum shift +
                                    one space per 1,000 square feet.
Secondary Education
                                    One parking space shall be provided for
                                    each four students in the eleventh and
                                    twelfth grades (based on the maximum number
                                    of students that the facility is designed
-High School                        to handle at any one time), plus one for
                                    each two employees. Parking spaces equal to
                                    one-fifth (1/5) the capacity of any place
                                    of assembly will be required if provided in
                                    the school.
                                    One parking space shall be provided for
                                    each employee. Parking spaces equal to one-
-Middle School                      fifth (1/5) the capacity of any place of
                                    assembly will be required if provided in
                                    the school.
Utilities                           One space per employee of maximum shift.
 
   Table 11-13-7B2: Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements
Commercial Use Types
                                        See
Agricultural Sales/Service              Schedule A outdoor sales or display
                                        area.
Auto and Equipment Rental and Sales,    See
Equipment Repair                        Schedule A.
Motor Vehicle Sales, and Machinery      One parking space shall be provided for
Sales                                   each 800 square feet of floor area.
Auto Service *                          Four times service capacity.
                                        Stacking spaces shall be provided to
                                        accommodate waiting automobiles equal
                                        in number to five times the maximum
                                        capacity of the automobile laundry for
- Automobile Laundry                    each wash rack, plus one parking space
                                        for each two employees. Maximum
                                        capacity, in this instance, shall mean
                                        the greatest number of automobiles
                                        undergoing some phase of laundering at
                                        the same time.
                                        Two parking spaces shall be provided
- Automobile Service Stations           for each island of pumps and each
                                        service stall, plus one parking space
                                        for each two employees.
Body Repair *                           Five spaces per repair stall.
Business Support Services               One space per 500 square feet.
Campground                              One space per camping unit.
Bar                                     One space per 50 square feet of
                                        customer service area.
Commercial Recreation                   One space per four-person capacity.
                                        Three parking spaces shall be provided
                                        for each alley, plus such additional
Bowling Alleys                          spaces as may be required herein for
                                        affiliated users such as bars,
                                        restaurants and the like.
Driving Range, Miniature Golf Course,   One space shall be provided for each
Putting Course                          tee or hole, plus one space for every
                                        employee.
                                        Three parking spaces shall be provided
                                        for each hole, plus one space for every
                                        two employees. Parking shall be
Golf Course                             provided for any accessory use such as,
                                        but not limited to, pro shops and
                                        restaurants, which is not used
                                        exclusively by patrons of the golf
                                        course.
                                        One parking space shall be provided for
Theaters (Indoor)                       each four seats up to 400 seats, plus
                                        one for each six seats over 400 seats.
                                        Reserved parking spaces at the entrance
                                        to the theater shall be provided equal
Theaters (Outdoor)                      to 10 percent of the vehicle capacity
                                        of the theater, otherwise the same as
                                        indoor theater.
Communication Services                  One and one-fourth (11/4) spaces shall
                                        be provided for each employee.
                                        See
Construction Sales                      Schedule A outdoor sales or display
                                        area
Consumer Services                       One space per 200 square feet.
Coin or Token-Operated Laundry          One parking space shall be provided for
Establishments                          every two machines.
                                        One parking space shall be provided for
Household Equipment or Furniture Repair each 500 square feet of floor area.
Shops                                   See Equipment Servicing or
                                        Manufacturing
Convenience Storage                     One space per 20 storage units.
Equipment Sales/Service                 See Schedule A outdoor sales or display
                                        area.
Food Sales (All Types)                  One space per 200 square feet.
                                        One space per three persons at chapel
Funeral Services                        capacity, and one space per funeral
                                        vehicle
General Retail Services                 One space per 200 square feet (five
                                        spaces/1,000 square feet).
                                        One parking space shall be provided for
Furniture and Appliance Stores          each 500 square feet of floor area (two
                                        spaces/1,000 square feet).
Liquor Sales                            One space per 200 square feet.
                                        One parking space shall be provided for
Lodging, Bed and Breakfast              each guest or sleeping room or suite,
                                        plus one additional space for the
                                        owner, manager, and each employee.
Personal Improvement                    One space per 200 square feet.
Personal Services                       One space per 250 square feet.
                                        Two parking spaces shall be provided
Barbershop and Beauty Parlor            for each barber chair, plus one for
                                        each employee and tanning bed.
Pet Services                            One space per 500 square feet.
Restaurants (Drive-In/Fast Food)        One space per 50 square feet of
                                        customer service area.
Retail Uses                             One space per 200 square feet.
Restaurants (Neighborhood and General)  One parking space shall be provided for
                                        each 100 square feet of floor area.
Stables/Kennels                         One space per employee + one space per
                                        500 square feet of site area.
                                        See
Surplus Sales                           Schedule A outdoor sales or display
                                        area.
Trade Services                          One space per 500 square feet.
                                        One space per 200 square feet in
Travel Centers                          building + one space for each fueling
                                        station.
                                        One space per 200 square feet in
Truck Stop                              building + one space for each fueling
                                        station.
Veterinary Services                     One space per 500 square feet.
 
* Auto service and body repair subject to other restrictions applicable under
this title.
   Table 11-13-7B3: Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements
Office Use Types
                                       One parking space shall be provided for
Corporate Offices                      each 300 square feet of floor area (3.3/
                                       1,000).
General Offices                        One space per 250 square feet.
                                       One space per 250 square feet. Drive-in
Financial Services                     establishments shall provide six
                                       stacking spaces per teller or customer
                                       service window.
                                       Two parking spaces shall be provided for
Medical Offices                        each office, examining room and
                                       treatment room, plus one for each
                                       employee.
Miscellaneous Use Types
Broadcasting Tower                     One and ¼ spaces per each service
                                       employee.
                                       See
Non-Putrescible Landfill               Schedule A equipment servicing or
                                       manufacturing.
                                       See
All Landfills                          Schedule A equipment servicing or
                                       manufacturing.
Industrial Use Types
                                       See
Agricultural Industries                Schedule A. Non-farming operations - one
                                       space per vehicle, one space per
                                       employee.
                                       See
Light Industry                         Schedule A equipment servicing or
                                       manufacturing.
                                       See
General Industry                       Schedule A equipment servicing or
                                       manufacturing.
                                       See
Heavy Industry                         Schedule A equipment servicing or
                                       manufacturing.
                                       See
Railroad Facilities                    Schedule A equipment servicing or
                                       manufacturing.
Resource Extraction                    One space per employee on largest shift.
Salvage Services                       See
                                       Schedule A indoor or outdoor storage.
                                       One parking space shall be provided for
Warehousing                            each two employees, plus one space for
                                       each vehicle used in the conduct of the
                                       enterprise.
                                       One parking space shall be provided for
Wholesale Establishments               each 600 square feet of floor area in
                                       excess of 4,000 square feet.
                                       See
Construction Yards                     Schedule A outdoor sales or display
                                       area.
                                       One parking space shall be provided for
Truck Terminals                        each two (2) employees, plus one for
                                       each truck.
Schedule A
This schedule sets forth minimum off-street parking requirements for uses with
elements that have different functions and operating characteristics
Function of Element                    Requirement
Office or Administration               One space per 300 square feet.
Indoor Sales, Display or Service Area  One space per 200 square feet.
Outdoor Sales, Display or Service Area One space per 800 square feet.
Equipment Servicing or Manufacturing   One space for each two employees + one
                                       space for each work vehicle.
Indoor or Outdoor Storage or           One space for each two employees + one
Warehousing                            space for each work vehicle.
                                       
 
(Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017; amd. Ord. 05-23, 1-17-2023)
11-13-8: PLOT PLAN:
Any application for a building permit, or for a certificate of occupancy, shall
include therewith a plot plan, drawn to scale and fully dimensioned, showing
all parking facilities required by this chapter. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-13-9: MODIFICATIONS:
The board of adjustment may authorize or appeal a modification, reduction, or
waiver of the foregoing requirements, if it should find that, in the particular
case appealed, the peculiar nature of the residential, business, trade,
industrial, or other use, or the exceptional shape or size of the property or
other exceptional situation or condition, would justify such action. Exception:
Cases for properties located in the Downtown Master Plan District shall be
governed by Section
11-13-7(A)(2). (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017; amd. Ord. 05-23, 1-17-2023)
11-13-10: OFF-STREET LOADING:
   A.   Scope: The provisions of this article shall apply and govern in all
districts.
   B.   Requirement: Off-street loading space shall be required and maintained
in connection with any building or part thereof, hereafter erected or altered
which is to be occupied by uses requiring the receipt or distribution of
materials or merchandise.
   C.   Location: Off-street loading space shall be located on the same lot as
the structure for which provided.
   D.   Duty To Provide: The duty to provide the off-street loading space
herein required shall be the joint and several responsibility of the operator
and the owner of the structure or structures for which off-street loading
spaces are required to be provided. No structure shall be designed, erected,
altered, used, or occupied unless the off-street loading space herein required
is provided in at least the amount herein set forth, provided, however, that
off-street loading space need not be provided for structures actually used,
occupied, and operated on the effective date hereof unless, after the effective
date hereof, such structures are enlarged or expanded, or the uses within such
structures are enlarged, expanded, or changed, so as to require a greater
amount of off-street loading space than the amount of off-street loading space
not required to be furnished by reason of the foregoing exclusion, in which
event, the structures hereby excluded shall not be used, occupied, or operated
unless there is provided for the increment only of such structures, and
maintained as herein required, at least the amount of off-street loading space
that would be required hereunder if the increment were a separate structure.
   E.   Design, Development, And Maintenance: Every parcel of land hereafter
used for off-street loading space shall be designed, developed, and maintained
in accordance with the following requirements:
      1.   Off-street loading spaces shall not be used for the sale, repair,
dismantling, or servicing of any vehicles, equipment, materials, or supplies.
      2.   Off-street loading spaces shall be graded for proper drainage and
provided with an all-weather surfacing maintained at all times in such a manner
as to prevent the release of dust and to be free of dust, trash, and debris.
      3.   Off-street loading spaces that adjoin or are across the street from
property zoned for any residential use shall have a dense evergreen planting,
fence, masonry wall, or such other screening as may be determined by the board
of adjustment. The board of adjustment shall also determine the height,
location, and density of screening used to provide adequate protection to
adjoining property.
      4.   Off-street loading spaces shall be provided with entrances and exits
not less than twelve feet (12') in width and so located as to minimize traffic
congestion.
      5.   No portion of a vehicle shall project into a street or alley while
being loaded or unloaded.
      6.   Each off-street loading space shall be not less than ten feet (10')
in width, twenty five feet (25') in length, and twelve feet (12') in height,
exclusive of access drives. When more than three (3) spaces are required, the
spaces other than the first three (3) shall be twelve feet (12') in width,
sixty five feet (65') in length, and fifteen (15') feet in height.
      7.   Off-street loading space may occupy all or any part of any required
yard space, other than the front yard or side yard adjoining a street.
   F.   Space Required: At least the following amounts of off-street loading
space shall be provided, plus an area or means adequate for maneuvering,
ingress, and egress:
   Table 11-13-10F
Square Feet Of Gross Floor Area Required Number Of Spaces
Square Feet Of Gross Floor Area             Required Number Of Spaces
Banks, office buildings, funeral parlors, hospitals and all other uses:
 Up to 100,000                             1
 For each additional 100,000 up to 500,000 1 additional
 For each additional 500,000               1 additional
Industrial, warehouse and storage buildings:
 Up to 20,000                              1
 20,001 to 40,000                          2
 40,001 to 70,000                          3
 70,001 to 120,000                         4
 120,001 to 200,000                        5
 For each additional 100,000               1 additional
Retail stores, theaters, auditoriums, bowling alleys, hotels and wholesale
establishments:
 Up to 20,000                              1
 20,001 to 50,000                          2
 50,001 to 100,000                         3
 For each additional 100,000               1 additional
 
   G.   Modifications: The board of adjustment may authorize an appeal
modification, reduction, or waiver of the foregoing requirements if it should
find that, in the particular case appealed, the peculiar nature of the
business, trade, industrial, or other use, as represented by the owner or
developer, or the exceptional shape or size of the property or other
exceptional situation or condition, would justify such action. (Ord. 35-17, 10-
17-2017)
11-13-11: TEMPORARY PARKING OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
Restrictions: Recreational vehicles may be parked on unenclosed parking spaces
upon any residentially-zoned lot for a period of up to eight (8) consecutive
hours no more often than twice in any seven (7) consecutive-day period. At
least thirty (30) hours must separate each occurrence. Additionally,
recreational vehicles may be parked on unenclosed parking spaces for up to one
hundred sixty eight (168) consecutive hours four (4) times per year for the
purpose of visiting, loading, unloading, or repair. The owner of any
recreational vehicle parking said vehicle on unenclosed parking spaces for more
than eight (8) hours but less than one hundred sixty eight (168) hours shall
notify the zoning administrator of their intent to do so prior to such action.
Said notification shall include such information as may be required by the
zoning administrator in order to adequately enforce this provision. Upon the
expiration of the one hundred sixty eight (168) hours, the vehicle shall be
removed or otherwise lawfully parked. While temporarily parked, the vehicle may
be connected to the property's water and electrical utilities for charging or
loading of the vehicle's systems. Said vehicle shall not extend onto or over
any public right of way while so parked. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-13-12: BICYCLE PARKING:
   A.   Parking Requirements:
      1.   Each parking facility over twenty five (25) spaces shall provide one
bicycle parking space per twenty five (25) vehicle parking spaces.
      2.   A minimum of two (2) bicycle parking spaces shall be provided in
addition to the requirements above for all multi-family residential,
administration, recreational club, park and recreation, public assembly,
education, and commercial recreation uses listed in Chapter 4 of this title.
   B.   Parking Exemptions: Bicycle parking requirements do not apply to the
following use types:
      1.   All agricultural uses listed in Chapter 4, Table
11-4-5A of this title.
      2.   All industrial, transportation, and miscellaneous uses listed in
Chapter 4, Table
11-4-5C of this title, excluding transportation terminals.
   C.   Parking Location And Design:
      1.   Bicycle parking facilities shall include bicycle racks secured to
prevent easy removal, bicycle lockers, or bicycle posts or bollards expressly
designed for the secure storage.
      2.   The location of bicycle parking facilities shall be at least as
convenient to the main entrance of the primary use as the most convenient
automobile parking not reserved for use by disabled people.
      3.   All bicycle parking shall be located along a direct pedestrian route
to the main entrance of the primary use.
      4.   Bicycle parking should be located to prevent hazards or obstructions
to the normal flow of pedestrians into a use, including a five-foot (5') aisle
behind all bicycle parking. The required aisle may extend into the sidewalk
area if it does not interfere with accessible paths of travel as required for
ADA compliance. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
CHAPTER 14
SIGN ORDINANCE
SECTION:
11-14-1: Intent And Purpose
11-14-2: Permits Required
11-14-3: General Requirements And Restrictions
11-14-4: Removal and Conformance Requirements
11-14-5: Permitted Signs Within Zoning Districts
11-14-6: Specific Sign Regulations
11-14-7: Table Of Sign Types, Definitions, And Restrictions
11-14-8: Billboard Signs (Off-Premises Advertising)
11-14-9: Appeals
11-14-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is intended to control and regulate the development of signs
within the city. There is a significant relationship between the manner in
which signs are displayed, the public health, safety and welfare, and the
value, compatibility, and economic stability of adjoining property, its land
use, and the city. The reasonable display of signs is necessary as a service to
the people in the conduct of competitive commercial and industrial activity and
to promote freedom of expression. The regulations in this article establish
standards for the display of signs in direct relationship to the above stated
purposes and directives. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017; amd. Ord. 24-24, 12-3-2024)
11-14-2: PERMITS REQUIRED:
When the regulations of this article require a permit, said permit shall be
obtained from the zoning administrator or his designee. Where sections of this
code as applied to structures, particularly the uniform sign ordinances as
adopted by the city, are applicable, said permits must also be approved by the
Bettendorf Building Department. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017; amd. Ord. 24-24, 12-3-
2024)
11-14-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
All signs must comply with the following conditions:
   A.   Obstructing Vision: No sign shall be placed so as to obstruct vision at
street intersections and driveway intersections for oncoming vehicles.
   B.   Permit Required; Display Name: When a permit is required for any
particular sign, said sign shall display the name of the owner and erector.
   C.   Blocking Accessway Or Window: No sign shall block any required
accessway.
   D.   Attaching To Tree Or Pole: No sign shall be attached to a tree or
utility pole.
   E.   Unauthorized Signs Prohibited: All signs not authorized by this chapter
are prohibited.
   F.   Public Service And Safety Signs: No signs other than public service and
safety signs shall be permitted on public property unless authorized by the
governmental agency having control thereof.
   G.   Lighting, Illumination, And Luminance:
      1.   No lighting shall be used in any way in connection with any sign
unless it is of such low intensity or brilliance as to not cause glare or to
impair the vision of the driver of any motor vehicle, or to otherwise interfere
with any driver's operation of a motor vehicle. In no case shall any sign
exceed a maximum luminance of five thousand (5,000) candelas per square meter
(nits) during daylight hours and a maximum of two hundred (200) candelas per
square meter (nits) between dusk and dawn as measured from the sign's face at
maximum brightness.
      2.   The above maximum luminance levels are not a guaranteed allowable
level of brightness, only a maximum potential level of brightness. When a
citizen complaint of a violation of Subsection
11-14-3G of this section has been confirmed by the zoning administrator, said
sign shall have its luminance permanently reduced to satisfy compliance with
Subsection
11-14-3G of this section as directed by the zoning administrator regardless of
the above-stated maximum allowable levels. An appeal of the zoning
administrator's decision regarding Subsection
11-14-3G of this section may be presented to the Bettendorf Board of Adjustment
in accordance with Section
11-15-12 of this title.
   H.   Electronically-Changing Copy: Signs capable of electronically-changing
copy, display graphics, or images shall not permit same to change at a rate
faster than once every eight (8) seconds. Flashing is prohibited. Video is
prohibited. Alphanumeric scrolling messages are allowed, except for off-
premises advertising signs (see
11-14-8: Billboard Signs for supplemental regulations for off-premises
advertising signs). (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017; amd. Ord. 24-24, 12-3-2024)
11-14-4: REMOVAL AND CONFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS:
It is the intent of this section to recognize that the eventual elimination, as
expeditiously as it is reasonable, of existing signs that are not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter is as much a subject of the health, safety,
and welfare of the public as is the prohibition of new signs that would violate
the provisions of this chapter. It is also the intent of this section that any
elimination of nonconforming signs shall be effected so as to avoid any
unreasonable invasion of established private property rights. The zoning
administrator shall cause removal of a sign or sign structure if the property
owner fails to comply with the standards of this chapter within ten (10) days
after being issued a written notification from the zoning administrator. Any
expense incurred by the city in removing or repairing the sign or sign
structure shall be paid by the owner of the property to which the sign is
attached.
   A.   Nonconforming Signs:
      1.   Any nonconforming off-premises sign which does not advertise a bona
fide business, product, or organization, or becomes obsolete because the
business or organization has relocated, shall be removed by the owner within
one hundred twenty (120) days of the termination or relocation of the business,
product, or organization being advertised. Removal of obsolete signs shall
include the supporting structure, exclusive of any building, if all signs on
the structure are obsolete.
      2.   Any nonconforming off-premises sign which is severely damaged and
requires over fifty percent (50%) of the cost of replacement for repair shall
be removed within one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of the damage.
Removal of damaged signs shall include the supporting structure exclusive of
any building, if all signs on the structure are nonconforming.
   B.   Obsolete Signs: Any obsolete sign which does not advertise a bona fide
business conducted, or a product sold, shall be taken down and removed by the
owner, agent, or person having the beneficial use of the structure upon which
such sign may be found within ten (10) days after written notification from the
zoning administrator. Upon failure to comply with such notice within the time
specified in such order, the zoning administrator may cause removal of such
sign, and any expense incident thereto shall be paid by the owner of the
property to which such a sign is attached.
   C.   Unsafe And Unlawful Signs: If the zoning administrator shall find that
any sign is unsafe or insecure, or is a menace to the public, or has been
constructed or erected or is being maintained in violation of the provisions of
this article, he/she shall give written notice to the person to whom the zoning
certificate had been issued. If he/she fails to remove or alter the sign so as
to comply with the standards herein set forth within ten (10) days after such
notice, such sign may be removed or altered to comply by the zoning
administrator at the expense of the holder of the zoning certificate issued or
owner of the property upon which it is located. The zoning administrator shall
refuse to issue a zoning certificate to any such party or owner who refuses to
pay costs so assessed. The zoning administrator may cause any sign which is an
immediate peril to persons or property to be removed summarily and without
notice.
   D.   Alterations: No display sign or outdoor advertising device shall be
altered, rebuilt, enlarged, extended, or relocated except in conformity with
the provisions of this title. Minor repainting, changing of parts, and
preventative maintenance of signs shall not be deemed to be alterations.
Repainting, changing of parts, and preventative maintenance of signs consisting
of more than fifty percent (50%) of the original cost of said sign, as shown on
the original building permit, shall be considered an alteration.
   E.   Maintenance: The owner of any sign requiring a permit shall be required
to maintain an exterior which is properly painted, galvanized, or otherwise
treated to prevent rust and deterioration of all parts and supports. (Ord. 35-
17, 10-17-2017; amd. Ord. 24-24, 12-3-2024)
11-14-5: PERMITTED SIGNS WITHIN ZONING DISTRICTS:
This section sets forth which types of signs are permitted in the various
zoning districts of the city. It is divided into four (4) categories for ease
of locating the zoning district involved. To the right of each type of sign is
set forth the zoning districts in which it is permitted, listed by
abbreviations. The notation "NP" indicates that "no permit" is required for
that sign. The notation "P" indicates that a permit is required for that sign.
   A.   The following signs are permitted in the agricultural districts
indicated below. Detailed regulations for each number are listed in Section
11-14-6 of this chapter.
Table 11-14-5A
Agricultural  
Agricultural  
   006    Institutional bulletins. A-1, A-2, P
   008    For sale or for lease. A-1, A-2, NP
   009    Flags. A-1, A-2, NP
   011    House number. A-1, A-2, NP
   016    Nameplates. A-1, A-2, NP
   022    Parking lot instructional. A-1, A-2, NP
   023    Parking entrance/exit. A-1, A-2, NP
   028    Subdivision. A-2, P
   029    Political signs. A-1, A-2, NP
 
   B.   The following signs are permitted in the residential districts as
indicated below. In any planned overlay residential district, the regulations
of the residential zone being overlaid shall apply unless more restrictive
agreements pertain. Detailed regulations for each number are listed in Section
11-14-6 of this chapter.
Table 11-14-5B
Residential
Residential
   006   Institutional bulletins. R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5, P
   009   Flags. R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5, NP
   011   House number. R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5, NP
   016   Nameplates. R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5, NP
   022   Parking lot instructional. R-3, R-4, R-5, NP
   023   Parking entrance/exit. R-4, R-5, NP
   028   Subdivision. R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5, P
   029   Political signs. R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5, NP
 
   C.   The following signs are permitted in the commercial districts as
indicated below. Detailed regulations for each number are listed in Section
11-14-6 of this chapter.
Table 11-14-5C
Commercial  
Commercial  
   001  Awning sign. C-1, C-2, C-3, C-7, NP
   006  Institutional bulletins. C-1, C-2, C-3, P
   008  For sale and for lease. C-1, C-2, C-3, C-6, C-7, P
   009  Flags. C-1, C-2, C-3, C-6, C-7, NP
   011  House number. C-1, C-2, C-3, C-6, C-7, NP
   014  Changeable type or marquee sign. C-1, C-2, C-3, C-7, P
   016  Nameplate. C-1, C-2, C-3, C-6, C-7, NP
   018  Off-premises advertising. C-2 within 660 feet of a U.S. highway or
           interstate right-of-way, C-3, C-6, C-7, P
   020  On-premises identification. C-1, C-2, C-3, C-6, C-7, P
   022  Parking lot instructional. C-1, C-2, C-3, C-6, C-7, NP
   023  Parking entrance/exit. C-1, C-2, C-3, C-6, C-7, NP
   025  Temporary mobile. C-1, C-2, C-3, C-6, C-7, P
   027  Shopping center. C-2, C-3, C-7, P
   028  Subdivision. C-1, C-2, C-3, C-6, C-7, P
   029  Political signs. C-1, C-2, C-3, C-6, C-7, NP
 
   D.   The following signs are permitted in the industrial districts as
indicated below. Detailed regulations for each number are listed in Section
11-14-6 of this chapter.
Table 11-14-5D
Industrial  
Industrial  
   009  Flags. I-1, I-2, I-3, NP
   011  House number. I-1, I-2, I-3, NP
   014  Changeable type or marquee sign. I-1, I-2, I-3, P
   016  Nameplate. I-1, I-2, I-3, NP
   019  Off-premises advertising. I-1, I-2, I-3, P
   020  On-premises identification. I-1, I-2, I-3, P
   022  Parking instructional. I-1, I-2, I-3, NP
   025  Temporary mobile. I-1, I-2, I-3, P
   029  Political signs. I-1, I-2, I-3, NP
 
(Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017; amd. Ord. 24-24, 12-3-2024)
11-14-6: SPECIFIC SIGN REGULATIONS:
All signs which are listed in Section
11-14-5 of this chapter are listed below. The following regulations govern the
use of specific types of signs which are allowed within the applicable zoning
districts. Subsections
11-14-6A through H of this section explain the standards, phrases, and
abbreviations subsequently used for each type of sign.
A.   Type:
   1.   Each sign has a "type str." item which shows the permitted type of sign
structure which is permitted as shown in the applicable table.
 
One Face A sign structure with not more than one sign surface.
         A sign with one sign surface or not more than two sign surfaces where
Two Face the two sign surfaces back to each other and face opposite or nearly
         opposite directions.
Bldg     Signs attached to a building.
Mon      A ground mounted monument sign.
Pole     A sign mounted upon a pole or poles raised up seven (7) feet above
         ground level.
 
   2.   Types of signs not listed below are not permitted for that sign.
B.   Size: Any sign shall not exceed the maximum number of square feet listed
for that sign on any one side or surface as shown in the applicable table.
C.   Illumination: Signs may be illuminated when indicated in the applicable
table by one of the following general methods shown as "Ill."
 
Back  An illumination permitted by producing a sign translucent in total or in
      part and placing light behind and within the structure of such sign.
      Electronic programmable sign. A sign that is electronically programmable
      to change copy or display graphics and/or images. Electronic programmable
      signs shall not permit same to change at a rate faster than once every
EPS   eight (8) seconds. Flashing is prohibited. Video is prohibited.
      Alphanumeric scrolling messages are allowed, except for off-premises
      advertising signs (see
      11-14-8: Billboard Signs for supplemental regulations for off-premises
      advertising signs).
Exp   An exposed lighting source that is not obscured by any part of the sign
      structure.
Flood An illumination permitted by a light shining upon the sign located apart
      from the sign structure and directed toward the sign.
None  No illumination permitted at all.
      An illumination permitted by producing a sign with opaque characteristics
Sil   and placing a light behind the characteristics so as to outline the
      characteristic with the glow from the lighting source creating a
      silhouette.
 
D.   Height: Any sign shall not exceed the maximum height in feet above average
ground level listed for that sign as shown in the applicable table. The bottom
of any pole sign shall not be lower than seven feet (7') above average ground
level.
 
NTE Not to exceed.
 
E.   Location: Signs (not attached to buildings) are permitted on that portion
of each parcel indicated for that sign as shown on the applicable table.
 
NCT  A sign must be located "not closer than" the designated distance from the
     property line.
     No restriction as to location on the parcel other than those written in
None Section
     11-10D-3 of this title.
 
F.   Number: No category of sign shall be displayed in greater number than
listed in the applicable table except the phrase "one per interior lot" shall
also mean two (2) per corner lot with one sign oriented to each of the streets
forming the corner.
G.   Special Conditions: Each sign may have a "special conditions" item(s)
which may indicate other condition(s) or restriction(s) not previously listed.
H.   Projection: Sign may project from a building into the setback by not more
than the applicable number shown in the table below. (See Section
11-14-7.) (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017; amd. Ord. 24-24, 12-3-2024)
11-14-7: TABLE OF SIGN TYPES, DEFINITIONS, AND RESTRICTIONS:
A.   Listed below are the types of signs permitted followed by a definition of
each sign type and a table of the standards governing the characteristics of
each.
   Table 11-14-7A
001    Awning sign. A sign which is designed into the material composing the awning
       which may serve as an on-premises identification and advertising sign.
       Type str.: On awning, one face
       Size: Square footage of all signage shall be calculated as follows:
          Terms:
          LWP = Linear width of involved parcel in feet.
          SPL = Building setback from involved property line in feet.
          Equation:
          (LWP + SPL) / 2 = Total allowable Awning signage square footage.
          (A 60 square foot minimum regardless of formula and no business may exceed 300
      square feet, regardless of formula.)
       Ill.: Flood.
          
       Height: Same as awning NTE 30 feet.
       Location: Same as awning.
          
       Number: Same as awning up to four (4).
          
       Projection: Four feet.
       Clocks. A commercial size clock capable of being read beyond the property on
       which it is located.
          
       Type str.: Mon, Pole, Bldg, two face.
          
       Size: Square footage of all signage shall be calculated as follows:
          Terms:
          LWP = Linear width of involved parcel in feet.
          SPL = Building setback from involved property line in feet.
          Equation:
          (LWP + SPL) / 2 = Total allowable signage square footage.
005       (A 60 square foot minimum regardless of formula, and no business may exceed
       300 square feet, regardless of formula.)
             
       Ill.: Back, Flood, Exp, EPS (a 50 square foot maximum allowed for Exp or EPS).
          
       Height: 20 feet.
          
       Location: Buildable area only.
          
       Number: One per interior lot.
          
       Projection: Four (4) feet.
       Institutional bulletin. Sign displaying changeable type messages situated on a
       parcel with a land use of a school, religious assembly, library, or other
       institutional use. A sign which may contain the name of the institution, located
       on the immediate institutional grounds, which has movable type or other manner of
       changing copy and gives times and other information of upcoming institution
       activities.
       Type str.: Mon, Pole, Bldg, two face.
          
       Size: 32 square feet
       Ill.: Back, Flood, Sil, Exp, EPS.
          
       Height: 10 feet.
006    Location: NCT 10 feet to front property line and other buildable areas.
          
       Number: One per interior lot.
          
       Special Conditions: The sign will require a special use permit in any
       residentially-zoned location or bordering any residentially-zoned location. All
       message centers in the residentially-zoned districts must remain blank from 10:00
       p.m. to 7:00 a.m. All light emanating from the sign must be contained on the
       parcel where the sign is located. The sign may not have any moving parts. For
       performance standards, all activities shall conform with the performance
       standards established for the industrial districts.
          
       Projection: Four feet.
       For sale and for lease. A sign which is temporary and is intended to indicate
       that the immediate perimeter or land is available for sale or for lease and
       contains the corporate and/or private name and phone and/or address of the agent
       who may be contacted for inquiries concerning the property.
       Type str.: Mon, Pole, Bldg, two face.
008    Size: 32 square feet.
       Ill.: None.
       Height: 15 feet.
       Location: No restriction.
       Number: One per interior lot.
       Projection: None.
       Flags. A sign made of cloth, bunting or similar material, often attached to a
       pole, with specific colors, patterns, or symbolic devices, used as a national,
       state or local symbol, or to indicate membership in an organization.
          
       Type str.: Pole, Bldg, two face.
          
       Size: No limit.
          
009    Ill.: Flood.
          
       Height: 50 feet.
          
       Location: No restriction.
          
       Number: No limit.
          
       Projection: 30 feet from pole.
       House numbers. Also known as street address numbers, a small sign with the
       numerals or written number which has been assigned as the progressive number
       which indicates the relative location along a street or place of the premises
       concerned.
          
       Type str.: Bldg, one face.
          
       Size: Two square feet.
011       
       Ill.: Back, Flood, Sil.
          
       Height: 10 feet in residential.
          
       Location: Buildable area on building.
          
       Number: One for each wall of each building.
          
       Projection: Two feet from structure.
       Changeable type or marquee sign. A fixed sign either mounted on the ground, on a
       pole, or on a building, which has letters which can be changed so as to make new
       messages. This sign may also have programmable type.
          
       Type str.: Pole, Bldg, Mon, two face.
       Size: 300 square feet. 60 square feet if erected within a required yard. 50
       square feet maximum allowed for the Exp or EPS message center.
       Ill.: Back, Flood, Exp, EPS.
       Height: 20 feet if erected at or behind the required yard line, 15 feet if
       erected in the required yard.
014    Location: Minimum of 15 feet from the property line or half (½) the distance of
       the required yard, whichever is greater or within the buildable area.
          
       Number: One per interior lot.
          
       Special Conditions: The sign may not have any moving parts. For performance
       standards, all activities shall conform with the performance standards
       established for the industrial districts. All light emanating from the sign must
       be contained on the parcel where the sign is located.
          
       Projection: Four feet.
       Nameplates. A small sign which contains the name of one individual or a married
       couple or a family surname or company name, as an identification for a specific
       doorway or building.
       Type str.: Bldg, Mon, two face.
       Size: One square foot.
016       
       Ill.: Flood, Back.
       Height: 15 feet.
       Location: No restrictions.
       Number: One per dwelling.
       Projection: Two feet.
       Off-premises advertising. A sign which advertises a business, service, product,
       or activity at a location other than where the business, service, product, or
       activity is located and is located in a commercial zoning district.
          
       Type str.: Pole, Mon
       Size: 672 square feet.
018    Ill.: Back, Flood, EPS.
          
       Height: A maximum height of 30 feet as measured from the base of the billboard
       sign support structure to the highest point of the billboard sign (including sign
       face).
          
       Special Conditions: See 11-14-8: Billboard Signs (Off-Premises Advertising) for
       supplemental regulations.
       Off-premises advertising. A sign which advertises a business, service, product,
       or activity at a location other than where the business, service, product, or
       activity is located and is located in an industrial zoning district.
          
       Type str.: Pole, Mon
          
       Size: 672 square feet.
019    Ill.: Back, Flood, EPS.
          
       Height: A maximum height of 30 feet as measured from the base of the billboard
       sign support structure to the highest point of the billboard sign (including sign
       face).
          
       Special Conditions: See 11-14-8: Billboard Signs (Off-Premises Advertising) for
       supplemental regulations.
       On premises identification and advertising sign. A sign which displays the name
       and/or products and/or service which can be purchased on the premises where the
       sign is located.
          
       Type str.: Pole, Mon, Bldg, two face.
          
       Size: Square footage of all on premises identification and advertising signage
       shall be calculated as follows with a 60 square foot maximum if located within a
       required setback.
          
       Terms:
          LWP = Linear width of involved parcel in feet.
          SPL = Building setback from involved property line in feet.
          Equation:
          (LWP + SPL) / 2 = Total signage square footage.
020       (A 60 square foot minimum regardless of formula) (when three or more
       businesses are located on a single lot, each business may not exceed 300 square
       feet, regardless of formula and a 60 square foot maximum if erected within a
       required setback.)
             
       Ill.: Back, Flood, Sil, Exp, EPS (a 50 square foot maximum allowed for Exp or
       EPS).
          
       Height: 20 feet if erected at or behind the required yard line, 15 feet if
       erected within the required yard.
          
       Location: Minimum of 15 feet from the property line or half the distance of the
       required yard, whichever is greater or within the buildable area.
          
       Number: One business, street frontage.
          
       Projection: Four feet.
       Parking instructional signs. A sign located adjacent to driveway and parking
       areas which instructs the users as to restriction and regulations controlling the
       parking area such as, but not limited to, private parking areas, hours of
       parking, one-way entrances, no parking area, towing policy.
          
       Type str.: Bldg, Pole, Mon, 2 face.
          
       Size: Nine square feet.
022       
       Ill.: Back, Flood, Sil.
          
       Height: 7 feet.
          
       Location: Buildable area.
          
       Number: One per interior lot.
          
       Projection: Four feet.
       Parking entrance/exit. A sign located along a driveway entrance or exit to some
       type of parking area which indicates the use of the driveway as an entrance and/
       or exit.
          
       Type str.: Bldg, Pole, Mon, two face.
          
       Size: Nine square feet.
          
023    Ill.: Back, Flood, Sil.
          
       Height: 7 feet.
          
       Location: No restriction.
          
       Number: One per entrance.
          
       Projection: Four feet.
       Public service and safety. A sign authorized by a governmental agency with
       highway directions, parking restrictions, information of government regulations
       for traffic control, street names or other public purposes.
          
       Type str.: Pole, Bldg, Mon, two face.
          
       Size: No limit.
          
024    Ill.: Back, Flood, Exp, EPS.
          
       Height: No limit.
          
       Location: On public property.
          
       Number: No limit.
          
       Projection: No limit.
       Temporary mobile sign. Signs which are temporary and can easily be moved to
       another location and which have movable type. This sign may also have
       programmable type.
          
       Type str.: Mon, two face.
          
       Size: 32 square feet.
       Ill.: Back, Flood, Exp, EPS.
       Height: 10 feet.
       Location: Owner's property.
025    Number: One.
          
       Special Conditions: No sign shall be permitted for more than 60 days. No
       additional reapplication shall be considered sooner than 60 days after
       termination of the last such permit. A permit may be requested for 30 or 60 days.
       The sign may not have any moving parts. For performance standards, all activities
       shall conform to the performance standards established for the industrial
       districts. All light emanating from the sign must be contained on the parcel
       where the sign is located.
          
       Projection: None.
       Shopping center. A sign which identifies a complex of retail or office
       establishments which are serviced by common parking and driveway facilities and
       are in a complex of at least three commercial establishments on the same property
       or adjacent properties. Such a sign is allowed in lieu of on premises
       identification pole signs for each individual business.
          
       Type str.: Pole, two face.
          
       Size: 500 square feet (a 50 square foot maximum allowed for Exp or EPS).
027       
       Ill.: Back, Flood, Sil, EPS.
          
       Height: Minimum 8 feet, maximum 20 feet.
          
       Location: Within buildable area.
          
       Number: One per interior lot.
          
       Projection: Four feet.
       Subdivision. A sign located at a development which is intended to identify the
       development where there are multiple lots.
          
       Type str.: Mon, two face.
          
       Size: 100 square feet.
          
028    Ill.: None.
          
       Height: 10 feet.
          
       Location: Buildable area.
          
       Number: One per entrance.
          
       Projection: None
       Political signs. A sign announcing, promoting (for or against), or drawing
       attention to any personal or political issue or candidate(s) seeking public
       political office. Political signs are permitted in all districts, subject to the
       following conditions:
          
       1.   Location and Size: No such signs shall be placed on public property. Such
       signs may be located in a required yard in any district, except none shall be
       within 30 feet of a corner street lot line intersection. No such sign shall
029    exceed 32 square feet in surface area nor eight feet in horizontal length.
          
       2.   Height: Such signs shall not exceed five feet in height.
             
       3.   Permit: No additional permits shall be required.
             
       4.   Penalty: Any person who violates these conditions will be given 48 hours
       from the time the violation is discovered and the offender notified to come into
       compliance herewith. Thereafter, the offense may be prosecuted as a municipal
       infraction.
B.   Additional Sign Types:
   1.   Institutional Identification Sign: A permanent, on-premises sign for
the identification of a public or private school, university, church, hospital,
or other similar use.
   2.   Window Sign: A sign attached to and parallel with the side of a
building. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017; amd. Ord. 24-24, 12-3-2024)
11-14-8: APPEALS:
   A.   Definitions:
      1.   Off-Premises Advertising: A sign which advertises a business,
service, product, or activity at a location other than where the business,
service, product, or activity is located.
      2.   Billboard Sign (Static): A static display sign and its structural
support containing content that is off-premises advertising.
      3.   Billboard Sign (Digital Display): An electronic programmable sign
(EPS) and its structural support containing content that is off-premises
advertising.
      4.   New Billboard Sign: The construction of a billboard sign (static) or
billboard (sign) digital in a location where no billboard sign existed; or the
conversion of an existing billboard sign (static) to a billboard sign (digital
display).
   B.   Location:
      1.   Permitted Districts: Billboard signs are permitted in I-1, I-2, I-3,
C-3, C-6, C-7 Zoning Districts. Billboard signs are also permitted in the C-
2 zoning district if within six hundred sixty feet (660') of a U.S. highway or
interstate right-of-way.
      2.   Downtown Master Plan Overlay District Exclusion: Regardless of the
underlying zoning district, no billboard signs shall be permitted in the
Downtown Master Plan Overlay District, nor any other overlay district that does
not allow billboard signs.
   C.   Distance Buffers:
      1.   Residential Areas: All billboard signs shall be located at a minimum
distance of five hundred feet (500') from any residential zoning district in
Bettendorf or adjacent cities.
      2.   Parks: All billboard signs shall be located a minimum distance of
five hundred feet (500') from any designated public park in Bettendorf or
adjacent cities.
      3.   Billboard Separation: All billboard signs shall be separated by a
minimum distance of two thousand feet (2,000').
      4.   All listed buffer requirements shall apply to all newly-constructed
billboard signs regardless of sign viability due to topography, tree cover, or
other considerations.
   D.   Height:
      1.   A maximum height of thirty feet (30') as measured from the base of
the billboard sign support structure to the highest point of the billboard sign
(including sign face).
   E.   Yard Requirements:
      1.   Billboard signs shall be subject to the yard requirements
established for principal uses for the district in which they are located.
   F.   Maximum Sign Surface Area:
      1.   A billboard sign shall contain no more than six hundred seventy two
(672) square feet of sign surface area per face.
   G.   Maximum Number of Faces:
      1.   No billboard sign shall have more than two (2) faces. A face shall
be considered the display surface upon which an advertising message is
displayed.
   H.   Face Orientation:
      1.   No billboard sign shall have more than one (1) face (display
surface) oriented in the same vertical plane.
   I.   Name Of Owner:
      1.   No billboard sign shall be maintained in the City unless the name of
the person or company owning or maintaining it is plainly displayed thereon.
   J.   Illumination:
      1.   Illumination of billboard signs (static) shall be permitted if the
lighting is non-flashing.
      2.   Back and Flood lighting are permitted for billboard signs (static).
      3.   See subsection M for billboard signs (digital display) criteria.
   K.   Number Permitted:
      1.   The total number of billboard signs shall not exceed the total
number of billboard signs legally existing in the City on January 1, 2025,
minus any billboard signs which are removed and not replaced and minus any
reduction in the number of billboard signs pursuant to the conversion process
described in subsection M1c. Billboard signs are permitted to be replaced on a
billboard sign by billboard sign basis. A variance of dimensional standards or
a conditional use granted for the placement of a new billboard sign shall not
waive the requirement for removal of an existing sign to place a new billboard
sign.
   L.   Replacement Of Existing Billboard Signs:
      1.   A permit for a new billboard sign shall require the removal of an
existing billboard sign.
      2.   If the owner of a proposed new billboard sign owns a billboard sign
that is nonconforming to Section
11-14-8 of this code, then the billboard sign removed to satisfy the
requirements to construct a new billboard sign must be a nonconforming sign.
      3.   Upon removal of an existing billboard sign, the City shall record
the location, owner of structure, and other relevant information about the
billboard sign for ten (10) years from the date of removal, thus creating a
billboard sign credit. A removed billboard sign that is part of the City's
billboard sign credit record can be used to satisfy the removal requirement. If
the billboard sign credit is not claimed (used for a new billboard sign or
conversion to a digital display billboard sign) within ten (10) years, the
billboard sign shall be considered removed and the total number of billboard
signs permitted in the City shall be reduced by one.
         a.   The owner of the billboard sign credit shall be assumed to be the
owner of the billboard sign (static or digital display) prior to demolition or
removal. This does not supersede private party agreements, leases, or contract
terms. Evidence providing proof of ownership of a billboard sign credit shall
be required prior to issuance of a building permit for a new billboard sign
(static or digital display) or for the conversion of a billboard sign (static)
to billboard sign (digital display) as specified in subsection L5.
      4.   The owner of a legal billboard sign within the community may
transfer the right to build a new billboard sign to another party. The transfer
shall be stated in a letter signed by both parties which is submitted with an
application for a new billboard sign.
      5.   Prior to the issuance of a building permit for any billboard sign
subject to the requirements of this Chapter, the applicant shall provide the
following:
         a.   The telephone number of a maintenance service, to be available
twenty-four (24) hours a day, to be contacted in the event that a billboard
sign becomes dilapidated or damaged, or malfunctions in the case of a billboard
sign (digital display).
         b.   Proof of lease demonstrating a right to install the billboard
sign on the subject property.
         c.   Proof of lease or deed demonstrating ownership of a removed
billboard sign. The intent of this requirement is to facilitate verification of
the applicant's right to use of a billboard sign credit created from the
removal of a billboard sign.
         d.   A list and map of locations of all billboard signs in the City
owned or managed by the entity that will own or manage the subject billboard
sign, to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director. The intent of
this requirement is to facilitate analysis of the proposed billboard sign's
compliance with the spacing and location requirements, as well as the
nonconforming billboard sign removal requirements of this Chapter.
         e.   An application for a new billboard sign may be made in
anticipation of removal of an existing billboard sign. Such application may be
approved on the condition that no permit for the construction of the new
billboard sign shall be issued until the existing billboard sign is removed and
documentation of the removal is submitted to the City.
   M.   Billboard Sign (Digital Display) Criteria:
      1.   A billboard sign (digital display) is permitted under the following
criteria:
         a.   The following standards shall apply to billboard signs (digital
display) erected after the effective date of this ordinance, including existing
billboard signs (static) that are converted to billboard signs (digital
display) after said effective date, also referred to as "new".
         b.   Erection of a new billboard sign (digital display) shall require
the removal of an existing billboard sign (static or digital display).
         c.   Conversion of an existing billboard sign (static) to a billboard
sign (digital display) shall meet the following requirements:
            (1)   The location and dimensional requirements shall conform to
all requirements set forth in Section
11-14-8 of this code. Billboard signs (static) which do not conform to
Bettendorf City Code shall not be converted to billboard signs (digital
display).
            (2)   Conversion of an existing billboard sign (static) to a
billboard sign (digital display) shall require the removal of one existing
billboard sign (static or digital display) other than the one to be converted.
The total number of billboard signs (static or digital display) allowed in the
City of Bettendorf will be reduced by one as the result of a conversion.
            (3)   All standards set forth in subsection L shall be met.
         d.   No animation, flashing, video or scrolling text shall be
permitted on a billboard sign (digital display) during or in transition between
messages. Any image or message or part of a message displayed on the billboard
sign (digital display) shall have a minimum duration of eight (8) seconds and
shall be static display. Transition time between images or messages or part of
a message must be no longer than two (2) seconds.
         e.   In the event of a public emergency, such as an Amber Alert,
natural disaster, or other state of emergency, the owner of a billboard sign
(digital display) shall coordinate with public authorities and allow space for
the display of relevant messages to the public.
         f.   The maximum brightness during daylight hours is limited to five
thousand (5,000) candelas per square meter (nits) when measured from the
billboard sign's (digital display) face at its maximum color brightness
(white). The maximum brightness between dusk and dawn (i.e. the time of day
between sunset and sunrise) is limited to two hundred (200) candelas per square
meter (nits) when measured from the billboard sign's (digital display) face at
its maximum color brightness (white). The billboard sign (digital display) must
have an ambient light meter installed and contain automatic dimmer technology
that automatically adjusts the display's brightness based on ambient light
conditions. (Ord. 24-24, 12-3-2024)
11-14-9: APPEALS:
Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the zoning administrator to
approve or disapprove a sign permit, as provided by this section, may appeal
such decision to the Board of Adjustment as provided by subsection
11-15-12D of this title. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017; amd. Ord. 24-24, 12-3-2024)
CHAPTER 15
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-15-1 Zoning Administrator
11-15-2 Building Permits Required
11-15-3 Site or Development Plan Required
11-15-4 Application For Permit - Requirements
11-15-5 Permit Issuance Following Approval
11-15-6 Construction And Use To Be As Provided In Application, Plans, And
Permits
11-15-7 Investigation Fees; Work Without Permit
11-15-8 Certificates Of Occupancy
11-15-9 Special-Use Permits
11-15-10 Temporary Permits
11-15-11 Penalties And Remedies
11-15-12 Board Of Adjustment
11-15-13 Amendments
11-15-14 Continuation Of Nonconformities; Conditions
11-15-1:   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Position Created: The community development director shall administer
and enforce the zoning ordinance as the city's zoning administrator. Said
zoning administrator may be provided with the assistance of such other persons
as the city administrator may direct.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The zoning administrator shall exercise all
enforcement powers under this section including, but not limited to, the
investigation of complaints of zoning violations, issuance of notices and
municipal infraction citations to violators, and the preparation and submission
to the legal department of reports of those zoning violations which continue
unabated after exhaustion of reasonable administrative remedies toward their
abatement, for such legal action as the facts of each report may require. In
addition, these duties include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Perform inspections for matters referred to in this title.
      2.   Keep records of permits issued, inspections made, and notices or
orders issued.
      3.   Interpret and enforce the provisions of this ordinance.
      4.   Review proposed developments and changes in use for conformance with
the provisions of this ordinance. Perform administrative approval functions as
provided for in this ordinance.
      5.   Provide staff support for the plan and zoning commission and the
zoning board of adjustment. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-15-2: BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED:
No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to, or
structurally altered without a permit therefore, issued by the building
official. No building permit shall be issued by the building official except in
conformity with the provisions of this zoning ordinance, unless the zoning
administrator receives written order from the zoning board of adjustment in the
form of an administrative review, special exception, or variance as provided
herein. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-15-3: SITE OR DEVELOPMENT PLAN REQUIRED:
Any person who shall make application for a building permit shall, at the time
of making such application, furnish the zoning administrator with a site plan
or development plan of the real estate upon which said application for a
building permit is made, in accordance with Appendix 1 of this code.
11-15-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT - REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   An application for a building permit for new construction or a building
addition which requires a measurement from a lot line shall be accompanied by a
certificate from a registered surveyor of the state of Iowa, unless waived by
the building inspector, indicating that the property involved has been
surveyed, that stakes or monuments have been placed at all corners of the
tract, and the date of the survey. Said survey must have been accomplished
during the previous twelve (12) months.
   B.   The zoning administrator may take ten (10) days in which to study the
application, during which time the zoning administrator may consult with
appropriate technical consultants. If during or after the ten (10)-day period
the zoning administrator has not required any additional information or stated
any objections in writing, the zoning administrator shall recommend issuance of
the building permit.
   C.   During the initial inspection of any new construction or building
addition which requires a measurement from a lot line, all tract corner stakes
or monuments must be visible before continuance can be permitted. (Ord. 35-17,
10-17-2017)
11-15-5: PERMIT ISSUANCE FOLLOWING APPROVAL:
The zoning administrator shall issue a building permit for a special use only
following receipt of notice from the board of adjustment that the application
has been approved by the board. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-15-6: CONSTRUCTION AND USE TO BE AS PROVIDED IN APPLICATION, PLANS, AND
PERMITS:  
Building permits issued on the basis of plans and specifications approved by
the zoning administrator authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction
set forth in such approved plans and applications, and no other use,
arrangement, or construction. Use, arrangement, or construction at variance
with that authorized shall be deemed violation of the zoning ordinance. (Ord.
35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-15-7: INVESTIGATION FEES; WORK WITHOUT PERMIT:
   A.   Investigation: Whenever any work for which a permit is required by the
zoning ordinance has been commenced without first obtaining said permit, a
special investigation shall be made before a permit may be issued for such
work.
   B.   Fee. An investigation fee, as provided for by the city code, in
addition to the permit fee, shall be collected whether or not a permit is then
or subsequently issued. The investigation fee shall be equal to the amount of
the permit fee that would be required by this zoning ordinance if a permit were
to be issued. The payment of such investigation fee shall not exempt any person
from compliance with all other provisions of this code of ordinances or any
penalty prescribed by law. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-15-8: CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   No land shall be occupied or used and no building hereafter erected,
reconstructed, or structurally altered, in whole or in part, for any purpose
whatsoever, until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by the
zoning administrator stating that the building and use comply with all of the
provisions of this title applicable to the building or premises or the use in
the district in which it is to be located.
   B.   Upon completion of the improvement covered by the building permit, the
zoning administrator shall inspect the premises and, if this inspection shall
reveal that the improvement has been completed in substantial conformity with
the site plan, and any approved amendments thereto and, in the case of new
principal buildings, that all tract corner stakes or monuments are visible,
shall issue a certificate of occupancy.
   C.   No change shall be made in the use of land (except agricultural) or in
the use of any building or part thereof, now or hereafter erected,
reconstructed, or structurally altered, without a certificate of occupancy
having been issued by the zoning administrator, and no such building
certificate shall be issued to make such change unless it is in conformity with
the provisions of this title.
   D.   A certificate of occupancy shall be applied for coincidentally with the
application for a building permit and shall be issued within ten days after the
lawful erection, reconstruction, or structural alteration of such building or
other improvement of the land shall have been completed.
   E.   A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in the
office of the zoning administrator and copies shall be furnished upon request
to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or land
affected. A fee of $1.00 shall be charged for each original certificate and
$0.50 for each copy thereof.
   F.   No land shall be occupied or used and no building hereafter erected,
reconstructed, or structurally altered shall be occupied, or used, in whole or
in part, for any purpose whatsoever, until a certificate of occupancy shall
have been issued by the building inspector stating that the building and use
comply with all of the provisions of this title applicable to the building or
premises or the use in the district in which it is to be located. (Ord. 35-17,
10-17-2017)
11-15-9: SPECIAL-USE PERMITS:
   A.   Purpose: This title is based upon the division of the city into
districts, within which the uses of land, and the uses and bulk of buildings
and structures, are substantially uniform. It is recognized, however, that
there are special uses which, because of their unique characteristics, can only
be properly classified in any particular district or districts upon
consideration in each case of the impact of those uses upon neighboring land
and of the public need for the particular use at the particular location. Such
special uses fall into two (2) categories:
      1.   Uses publicly operated or traditionally affected with a public
interest, and
      2.   Uses entirely private in character, but of such an unusual nature
that their operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their
impact upon neighboring property, public facilities, or the city as a whole.
   B.   Authority: Special-use permits may be granted by the board of
adjustment, but only in accordance with the requirements hereinafter set forth.
   C.   Application And Notice Of Hearing: An application for a special-use
permit shall be filed in duplicate with the city clerk, who shall forward a
copy of the application to the board of adjustment without delay. The
application shall be in such form, contain such information, and be accompanied
by such plans as the board of adjustment may by rule require. The board of
adjustment shall hold a public hearing on such application in the manner
described in Section
11-15-12 of this chapter.
   D.   Report And Decision: Within one hundred (100) days after the close of
the hearing, unless the applicant shall have consented to a longer period, the
board of adjustment shall grant or deny the proposed special use. A written
report giving the findings and recommendations for action to be taken on the
application shall be prepared by the board of adjustment. The report shall
include any recommended conditions or restrictions to be imposed upon the
premises benefitted by the special-use permit.
   E.   Standards: No special-use permit may be granted unless:
      1.   The proposed use is designated by this title as a special use in the
district in which the use is to be located.
      2.   The proposed use will comply with all applicable regulations in the
district in which the use is to be located.
      3.   The location and size of the proposed use, the nature and intensity
of the operation involved in or conducted in connection with it, the size of
the site in relation to it, and the location of the site with respect to
streets giving access to it are such that it will be in harmony with the
appropriate and orderly development of the district in which it is located.
      4.   The location, nature, and height of buildings, walls, and fences,
and the nature and extent of the landscaping on the site are such that the use
will not unreasonably hinder or discourage the appropriate development and use
of adjacent land and buildings.
      5.   Parking areas will be of adequate size for the particular use,
properly located and suitably screened from adjoining uses, and the entrance
and exit drives will be laid out so as to prevent traffic hazards and
nuisances.
      6.   The proposed use will not cause substantial injury to the value of
other property in the neighborhood.
      7.   Conditions in the area have substantially changed and at least one
year has elapsed since any denial by the board of adjustment of any prior
application for a special-use permit that would have authorized substantially
the same use of all or part of the site.
      8.   The board of adjustment shall impose such conditions and
restrictions upon the premises benefitted by a special-use permit as may be
necessary to assure compliance with the above standards, to reduce or minimize
the effect of such permit upon other properties in the neighborhood, and to
better carry out the general intent of this title. Failure to comply with such
conditions or restrictions shall constitute a violation of this title.
      9.   The proposed use is consistent with the Bettendorf Comprehensive
Plan and serves to further the goals of the plan.
   F.   Effective Period: Special-use permits are subject to the commencement
requirements and abandonment provisions included in Subsection
11-15-12I of this chapter. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-15-10: TEMPORARY PERMITS:
   A.   Authority: The zoning administrator is authorized by this title to
issue a temporary permit for uses specifically authorized in particular zoning
districts as temporary permit uses.
   B.   Application: An application for a temporary permit shall be made to the
zoning administrator in writing on a form provided by the city. The zoning
administrator shall issue a permit only after satisfied that the use allowed by
the temporary permit will not adversely affect the public health, safety, or
general welfare of the city and/or immediate neighborhood.
   C.   Hearing: The zoning administrator may hold a public hearing on the
request for a temporary permit or may contact the property owners affected by
the proposed use regarding their opinion of the use.
   D.   Conditions: The zoning administrator may require that certain
conditions relating to the public health, safety, or general welfare be
complied with before the issuance of a temporary permit.
   E.   Written Decision: The zoning administrator shall render a written
decision on the application for a temporary permit within a reasonable time and
promptly forward a copy of the decision to the petitioner. Appeals from the
decision of the zoning administrator can be made to the board of adjustment.
(Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-15-11: PENALTIES AND REMEDIES:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: The owner or owners of any building or premises or
part thereof, where anything in violation of this title shall be placed, or
shall exist, or be maintained, and any architect, builder, or contractor who
may be employed to assist in the commission of any such violation and all
persons who shall fail to comply therewith or with any of the detailed
statement of plans submitted and approved thereunder shall for each and every
violation or noncompliance be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
offense. Each day during which such violation shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense.
   B.   Injunctive Relief: In the event any building or structure is erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any
building, structure, or land is used in violation of this title, the city
council, in addition to other remedies, may institute an action for injunctive
relief or any proper action or proceedings in the name of the city to prevent
such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair,
conversion, maintenance, or use to restrain, correct, or abate such violation,
to prevent the occupancy of said building, structure, or land, or to prevent
any act, conduct, business, or use in or about such premises in violation of
this title.
   C.   Nuisance Declared: Any building erected, raised, or converted, or land
or premises used in violation of any provisions of this title or the
requirements thereof, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and as such
may be abated in such manner as nuisances are now or may hereafter be abated
under the statutes. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-15-12: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Board Established; Membership; Terms: A board of adjustment is hereby
established which shall consist of five (5) members. The terms of office of the
members of the board and the manner of their appointment and of filling
vacancies shall be as provided by statute.
   B.   Rules Of Procedure; Meetings:
      1.   Rules: The board shall adopt its own rules of procedure not in
conflict with this title nor with the Iowa statutes in such case made and
provided.
      2.   Meetings: All meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the
chairman and at such times as such board may determine. The chairman, or in
their absence the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the board shall be open to the public.
The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each
member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such
fact and shall also keep records of its examinations, hearings, and other
official actions. Findings of fact shall be included in the minutes of each
case of a requested variation, and the reasons for recommending or denying such
variation shall be specified. Every rule or regulation, and every amendment or
repeal thereof, every order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
board shall be filed immediately in the office of the board and shall be a
public record.
   C.   Appeals; Hearings; Fees:
      1.   Right To Appeal: An appeal may be taken to the board by any person,
firm, or corporation aggrieved, or by an officer, department, board, or bureau
of the city affected by any decision of the building inspector. Such appeal
shall be taken within a reasonable time as shall be prescribed by the board of
adjustment by general rule, by filing with the building inspector and with the
board a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof. The building
inspector shall forthwith transmit to the board all of the papers constituting
the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
      2.   Time And Place For Hearing: The board shall select a reasonable time
and place for the hearing of the appeal and give notice thereof in the manner
provided in Subsection
11-15-12 G. of this section. Following the conclusion of the hearing, a
decision on the appeal shall be rendered without unreasonable delay. Any person
may appear and testify at any hearing, either in person or by counsel.
      3.   Fees: A fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be paid to the city for
all variances and appeals for detached, single-family residences. A fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be paid to the city for all other applications
to the board of adjustment. The fee shall be paid at the time the notice of
appeal is filed and no part of such fee shall be returnable to any appellant.
   D.   Powers And Duties: The board shall have the following powers and it
shall be its duty:
      1.   Hear And Decide Appeals From Administrative Decisions: The board
shall hear appeals from administrative decisions made by administrative
official(s) who interpret or enforce this title. Appeals shall be filed within
thirty (30) days of such decisions on a form provided thereto. The board may
grant appropriate relief to persons aggrieved.
         a.   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in the matter appealed from,
unless the office from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the board that, by
reason of the fact stated in the certificate, the stay would in the
administrative official's opinion cause imminent peril to life or property. In
such case, proceedings shall not be stayed, except by a restraining order
granted by the board or by a court of record, on application and notice to the
office from which the appeal is taken. The board shall fix a reasonable time
for hearing the appeal and give notice thereof to the parties in interest and
to the public.
         b.   The concurring vote of three (3) members of the board shall be
necessary to reverse any order or decision of an administrative official, or to
pass or to affect any variations from the terms and conditions of this
ordinance.
      2.   Granting Exceptions: To hear and decide by granting or denying an
exception to the provisions of this title including, but not limited to, the
following instances:
         a.   A request for the extension of a district where the boundary line
of a district divides a lot or tract held in single ownership at the time of
the effective date hereof.
         b.   Interpret the provisions of this title in such a way as to carry
out the intent and purpose of the zoning plan, as shown upon the maps fixing
the several districts, accompanying and made a part of this title, where the
street layout actually existing on the ground varies from the street layout as
shown on the said map or maps.
c.   Permit the erection and use of a building or structure or the use of
premises for railroad or public utility purposes.
         d.   Permit the reconstruction of a nonconforming building which has
been damaged by fire or other causes to the extent of more than sixty percent
(60%) of its actual value, where the board finds that the public interest will
best be served by permitting a continuance of the nonconforming use.
         e.   Waive or reduce the parking and loading requirements in any of
the districts whenever the character or use of the building is such as to make
unnecessary the full provision of parking or loading facilities, or whenever
such regulations would impose an unreasonable hardship upon granting an
advantage or a convenience.
      3.   Variances: The board shall have authority to grant a variance in the
regulations of this chapter that will not be contrary to the public interest,
where owing to special conditions a literal enforcement of the regulations will
result in unnecessary hardship, and so that the spirit of this chapter shall be
observed and substantial justice done. To establish unnecessary hardship, a
property owner must show all of the following elements:
         a.   The land in question cannot yield a reasonable return from any
use permitted by the regulations of the district in which the land is located.
Failure to yield a reasonable return may only be shown by proof that the owner
has been deprived of all beneficial or productive use of the land in question.
It is not sufficient merely to show that the value of the land has been
depreciated by the regulations or that a variance would permit the owner to
maintain a more profitable use.
         b.   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances not of the
owner's own making, which unique circumstances must relate specifically to the
land in question and not to general conditions in the neighborhood.
         c.   The use to be authorized by the variance will not alter the
essential character of the locality of the land in question. In granting any
variance, the board may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in
conformity with this chapter. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when
made a part of the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter subject to enforcement under Section
11-15-1 of this chapter. No appeal for a use variance shall be considered by
the board unless a proposed amendment to rezone the subject property to a
district classification permitting such use has been considered and denied by
the city council within the preceding year, provided that this requirement
shall not apply to appeals for area variances.
      4.   Special Uses: The board shall have authority to authorize the
granting of a special use in accord with the conditions of this title.
      5.   External Additions, Expansions, And Improvements: The board shall
have the authority to decide upon the correctness and appropriateness of all
external additions, expansions, and improvements to areas developed under
development plans mandated by this title which have been completed as certified
by a final resolution of the city council. This authority shall obligate the
board to review the intent of the original concept so that improvements, beyond
routine good maintenance, do not detract from, either directly or incrementally
over a period of time, the concept which makes the development desirable and
practical.
      6.   Considerations: In its consideration of a specific case, the board
must determine that the granting of a variance from the terms of this title
will not be contrary to the public interest, where owing to special conditions,
fully demonstrated on the basis of the facts presented, a literal enforcement
of the provisions of this title will result in unnecessary hardship, and that
the spirit of this title shall be observed and substantial justice done.
   E.   Board Determinations: In considering all appeals and any proposed
exception or variance to this title, the board, before making any exception or
variance in a specific case, shall first determine:
      1.   That the granting of exception will not permit any use in any
district which would be in conflict with the permitted uses of such district
under the terms of this title.
      2.   That it will not impair an adequate supply of light and air to
adjacent property.
      3.   That it will not unreasonably increase the congestion in public
streets.
      4.   That it will not increase the danger of fire or of the public
safety.
      5.   That it will not unreasonably diminish or impair established
property values within the surrounding area.
      6.   That it will not in any other respect impair the public health,
comfort, safety, morals, or welfare of the inhabitants of the city.
   F.   Reversing Or Affirming An Order Or Decision:
      1.   The concurring vote of three (3) members of the board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
building inspector or to decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon which
the board is authorized by this title to render a decision.
      2.   In exercising its powers, the board may, in conformity with the
provision of this title, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify
the order, requirement, or decision or determination appealed from and make
such order, requirement, decision, or determination as ought to be made and to
that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is
taken. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the
board the power or authority to alter or change this title or the district map,
such power and authority being reserved to the city council in the manner
hereinafter provided in Section
11-15-13 of this chapter.
   G.   Public Hearing; Notice: The board shall make no finding except in a
specific case and after a public hearing conducted by the board. Notice of the
time and place of such public hearing shall be published at least once not less
than six (6) days before the date of the hearing, in a Scott County publication
having a general circulation within the city. Such notice shall contain the
address and location of the property for which the variance or other ruling by
the board is sought as well as a brief description of the nature of the appeal.
   H.   Recourse Of Aggrieved Persons: Any person jointly or severally
aggrieved by any decision of the board under the provision of this title or any
taxpayers or any officer, department, board, or bureau of the city shall have
recourse to such relief as is provided by the statutes of the state of Iowa,
including review by certiorari.
   I.   Abandonment of Variances, Exceptions, And Special-Use Permits:
      1.   Uses of land, structures, and uses of structures which would
otherwise be prohibited under this chapter but have been allowed by the
granting of a special-use permit lapses as provided in this section.
      2.   If the event the construction of any such structure is not commenced
within two (2) years of the issuance of the special-use permit for such
structure, whichever is later, and diligently pursued to completion, such
variance, exception, or special-use permit shall lapse, and any subsequent use
of such land shall conform to the district regulations for the district in
which such land is located. The zoning administrator or his/her designee is
authorized to grant up to a one-year extension of this time limit, upon a show
of good cause by the applicant. If any such structure is destroyed by any means
to an extent of sixty percent (60%) or more of its replacement cost at the time
of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed unless a variance for said
structure is granted or any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the
district regulations for the district in which such land is located. (Ord. 35-
17, 10-17-2017)
11-15-13: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Initiation, Application, And Notice: The regulations imposed and the
districts created by this title may be amended from time to time by the city
council.
      1.   Initiation Of Amendment: An amendment may be initiated by a motion
of the city council, planning and zoning commission, or by the filing of an
application for such action signed by the property owners within the area to be
changed by the proposed amendment.
      2.   Application For Amendment: An application for an amendment to the
zoning district classification, to the text regulations, or a request for a
PUD, shall be filed with the city clerk in such form and accompanied by such
information as required by the city council and the planning and zoning
commission. Each application seeking a change shall, at the time of filing,
contain or be accompanied by all required information.
      3.   Public Notification Of District Reclassification:
         a.   City To Provide Signs; Fee: The city clerk or person designated
by the city clerk, shall provide each applicant requesting a change to the
official zoning map with at least two (2) rezoning notification signs
containing the date, time, and place of the planning and zoning commission
meeting. Said signs shall be clearly posted by the applicant on the property
for which the request has been made. On large parcels, additional signs may be
required to be posted. At least one sign must be placed so that it may be seen
from a street, and in the case of through lots and/or corner lots, a sign shall
be posted on both frontages. When a property is in the interior of a block or
tract of land, additional signs may be required to be posted adjacent to and
facing the surrounding properties. For each sign provided, the applicant shall
pay a fee in an amount established, from time to time, by the city council by
resolution.
         b.   Posting Of Notification Signs: Notification signs shall be posted
at least ten (10) days before the planning and zoning commission meeting which
said dates shall be noted on the sign. It shall be the applicant's
responsibility to see that said signs remain posted during the entire ten (10)
-day period. If the signs are not posted in accordance with the preceding
requirements, the planning and zoning commission may delay action on the
petition, except that if the applicant satisfies the commission that the signs
were initially posted at least ten-days prior to the commission meeting and
that the applicant made diligent efforts to keep the signs posted during the
entire period, and that only circumstances beyond the applicant's control
prevented a continuous posting, then the commission may act on the petition.
         c.   Courtesy Notices To Adjoining Property Owners: Notices stating
the petitioner's request, the general location of the property involved, and
date and location of the commission's public meeting shall be sent by the
planning coordinator, at least five (5) days prior to the meeting date, to all
property owners within two hundred feet (200') of the perimeter of the property
requested to be reclassified. For DCA rezoning requests, all owners of property
included in the DCA conceptual plan shall also be sent a courtesy notice, as
required in Subsection
11-15-13D of this section below. Such notices shall be sent by ordinary mail
with postage prepaid.
      4.   Action At Other Than Specified Times: If the commission is to
initially act on the petitioner's request at any time other than that specified
on the rezoning notification signs, the petitioner may be required to obtain
and post new signs with new dates.
      5.   Removal Of Signs: Signs required to be posted pursuant to this
section must be removed within seventy two (72) hours after the hearing date
listed on the sign.
      6.   Notice Pf Public Hearing: Notice of public hearing to be conducted
by the body holding the hearing and the time and place thereof shall be
published at least once not less than seven (7) days prior to the date fixed
for such hearing in a Scott County publication having a general circulation in
the city.
   B.   Hearings By City Planning And Zoning Commission On Proposed Amendments;
Report To City Council; Hearings By City Council: All applications for
amendment of the ordinance shall first be submitted to the city planning and
zoning commission, who will hold a public hearing in relation to the proposed
amendment. At the public hearing, citizens shall have an opportunity to be
heard. The planning and zoning commission shall then make a recommendation to
the city council. The city council may adopt, reject, or send back to the
planning and zoning commission's recommendation after a public hearing before
the city council. The planning and zoning commission and city council shall
find that the project adequately addresses the following concerns:
      1.   The rezoning conforms to the future land use map in the
comprehensive plan, as described in the Preamble and further in subsection A-1-
3 of Appendix 1.
      2.   The amendment is consistent with the goals and objectives of the
comprehensive plan.
If the responses for both Subsection
11-15-13 B.1. and
11-15-13 B.2. of this section are not affirmative, then either the amendment
request recommendation must be denied or the planning and zoning commission and
city council must amend the comprehensive plan to provide the required
consistency.
      3.   The subject property, after the city council approval of the
requested rezoning, will be designed so as to permit characteristics of said
zoning district that will not negatively impact the nearby parcels.
      4.   The potential externalities and applicable performance standards
requirements governing factors (such as noise, neon lights, odors, etc.) of the
rezoning request have been adequately considered.
      5.   There are adequate public utilities and services available to the
land if rezoned. If not, there is an identified party who will pay to install
them.
      6.   The pattern of development that has occurred surrounding the subject
property is examined, as other characteristics of the subject property are
considered, to make a determination regarding a request for an amendment
change.
      7.   The proposed amendment is in the public interest and not solely in
the interests of the applicant.
   C.   Procedures. Applications requesting a change in the zoning district
boundaries as shown on the official zoning district map shall be filed with the
zoning administrator, accompanied by a fee set by resolution of the council,
and shall contain the following information:
      1.   Non-DCA Zoning Districts:
         a.   The legal description and local address of the property.
         b.   The present zoning classification and the zoning classification
requested for the property.
         c.   The existing use and proposed use of the property.
         d.   The names and addresses of all the owners of all property within
two hundred feet (200') of the property for which the change is requested.
         e.   A statement of the reasons why the applicant feels the present
zoning classification is no longer valid.
      2.   DCAs:
         a.   The legal description and local address of the property.
         b.   The present zoning classification and the zoning classification
requested for the property.
         c.   The existing use of the property.
         d.   A DCA conceptual land use plan, encompassing an area of not less
than twenty (20) acres, including the following information:
            (1)   Specific Land Uses Proposed By Subareas: This includes
designation of areas of single-family, bi-attached, duplex, townhouse, and
apartment residential development; commercial; and industrial uses. Subareas
where a mixture of uses are proposed shall be specifically designated and
described.
            (2)   Proposed Intensities Of Development: Specific ranges of
dwelling units per acre shall be indicated for each proposed residential land
use. Types of proposed commercial uses (retail, service, office) shall be
indicated. Proposed floor area ratios for commercial subareas, as well as
maximum building square footages, shall be included. Industrial use areas shall
include the range of permitted uses, using the use-type categories from Chapter
2 of this title.
            (3)   Circulation: A general street plan indicating locations of
all proposed arterial and collector streets, as well as proposed trails and
sidewalks.
            (4)   Natural Resource Areas: Location of existing natural resource
areas, as identified on the Bettendorf Comprehensive Plan, Figure 1.3
Development Suitability Map. Concept plan shall indicate how these sensitive
environmental conditions will be accommodated in the proposed development,
consistent with comprehensive plan goals.
            (5)   Stormwater: A strategy for stormwater management for the
entire concept plan area shall be included. This strategy shall include text
indicating the proposed components of the stormwater management plan, general
project site drainage map, and general locations of proposed facilities such as
storm water retention or detention ponds.
            (6)   Architectural Design: Descriptions and/or examples of the
architectural character of proposed land uses, including range of unit square
footages for residential uses and typical elevations for commercial and
industrial uses.
            (7)   Land Use Compatibility: A description of how land use
compatibility in transition areas will be dealt with. See site plan ordinance
in Appendix 1 of this code for descriptions of compatibility issues and a list
of mitigating actions.
            (8)   Landscaping: A general plan for the inclusion of landscaping
and open space in the project area, with specific requirements for multi-
family, commercial, and industrial proposed developments.
   D.   Notice To Owners Of Property Included Conceptual Plan: If all of the
land included in the DCA conceptual plan is not owned by the applicant, all the
owners of property covered by the conceptual plan will be sent notice
indicating their land is so impacted.
   E.   Council Consideration: Prior to the adoption of an ordinance amending
and changing the regulations and districts created by this title, the council
shall consider the report and recommendation of the commission.
   F.   Failure Of Amendment Or Written Protest By Property Owners: In case the
commission does not approve the proposal or in case of a protest against such
change signed by twenty percent (20%) or more of one or more of the following
groups:
      1.   Property owners of the lots included in such proposed change;
      2.   Property owners immediately adjacent in the rear thereof extending
the depth of one lot or not to exceed two hundred feet (200') therefrom
(excluding street right-of-way);
      3.   Property owners immediately adjacent in the front thereof extending
the depth of one lot or not to exceed two hundred feet (200') therefrom
(excluding street right-of-way);
      4.   Property owners immediately adjacent to any and all sides (including
the front and rear sides) of the proposed change extending one lot or not to
exceed two hundred feet (200') therefrom (excluding street right-of-way);
      5.   Such amendment shall not become effective except by the favorable
vote of at least three-fourths of all the members of council.
   G.   Filing Fee: Any petition or request for an amendment to this title,
except by the commission, board, or council, shall be accompanied by a filing
fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for ten (10) acres or less and two hundred
dollars ($200.00) for ten and one-hundredth (10.01) acres or more, shall be
paid to the city clerk at the time the petition is filed, which the city clerk
shall forthwith pay to the city treasurer to the credit of the general revenue
fund of the city, no part of which shall be returnable to the petitioner.
   H.   Time Period Limitation: A petition of request for amendment to this
title shall not be accepted for processing for a particular change or for an
individual parcel of property until a period of at least three years shall have
passed since that same change or same property was denied. However, the
petition may be accepted before the elapsed three-year period, if it can be
shown that either:
      1.   Conditions in the area have substantially changed; or
      2.   A larger parcel of property, including the previously petitioned for
parcel, is involved; or
      3.   The request is for a different zoning classification; or
      4.   The request is for a planned unit development. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-
2017)
11-15-14: CONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMITIES; CONDITIONS:
The lawful use of a building or premises, existing at the time of the effective
date hereof, may be continued although such use does not conform to all the
provisions of this title, except as hereinafter provided:
   A.   A nonconforming use may be extended throughout a building, provided no
structural alterations are made therein, except those required by law.
   B.   A nonconforming use may be changed to another nonconforming use of the
same or greater restrictions, provided no structural alterations are made in
the building. Whenever a nonconforming use has been changed to a conforming use
or to a use permitted in a district of greater restrictions, it shall not
thereafter be changed to a nonconforming use or a less restricted one.
   C.   No building shall be erected upon any premises devoted to a
nonconforming use, except in conformance with regulations of this title.
   D.   The board of adjustment may authorize, by written permit, in a
residence district for a period of not more than one year from the date of such
permit, a temporary building for business or industrial use incidental to the
residential construction and development of said district.
   E.   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, or designated use of a building for which a building permit has
been heretofore issued, and the construction of which has been diligently
prosecuted within 90 days of the date of such building permit, and which entire
building shall be completed according to such plans filed within one year from
the effective date hereof.
   F.   In the event that a nonconforming use of any building or premises is
discontinued for a period of one year, the use of the same shall thereafter
conform to the uses permitted in the district in which it is located.
   G.   The lawful use of land for open storage purposes, which does not
conform to the provisions of this title, shall be discontinued within five (5)
years from the effective date hereof.
   H.   These provisions apply in the same manner to a use which may become a
nonconforming use due to a later amendment to this title.
   I.   A sign which is obsolete shall be removed or made conforming as set
forth by Section
11-14-5 of this title. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
CHAPTER 16
DEFINITIONS 
SECTION:
11-16-1: Purpose
11-16-2: General Construction of Language
11-16-3: Definition of Terms
11-16-4: A
11-16-5: B
11-16-6: C
11-16-7: D
11-16-8: E
11-16-9: F
11-16-10: G
11-16-11: H
11-16-12: I
11-16-13: J
11-16-14: K
11-16-15: L
11-16-16: M
11-16-17: N
11-16-18: O
11-16-19: P
11-16-20: Q
11-16-21: R
11-16-22: S
11-16-23: T
11-16-24: U
11-16-25: V
11-16-26: W
11-16-27: X
11-16-28: Y
11-16-29: Z
11-16-1: PURPOSE:
Chapter 16 shall be known as the definitions. The purpose of these provisions
is to promote consistency and precision in the interpretation of the zoning
ordinance. The meaning and construction of words as set forth shall apply
throughout the zoning ordinance, unless where modified in a specific section or
where the context of such words or phrases clearly indicates a different
meaning or construction. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-16-2: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE:
The following general rules of construction apply to the text of the zoning
ordinance.
   A.   Headings: Section and subsection headings contained herein are provided
for illustrative purposes only and shall not be deemed to limit, govern,
modify, or otherwise affect the scope, meaning, or intent of any provision of
the zoning ordinance.
   B.   Illustration: In the case of any real or apparent conflict between the
text of the ordinance and any illustration explaining the text, the text shall
apply.
   C.   Shall, Must, And May: "Shall" and "must" are always mandatory. "May" is
discretionary.
   D.   Tenses And Numbers: Words used in the present tense include the future
tense. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural the
singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
   E.   Conjunctions: Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, the
following conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows:
      1.   "And" indicates that all connected items or provisions apply.
      2.   "Or" indicates that the connected items or provisions may apply
singly or in any combination.
      3.   "Either ... or" indicates that the connected items or provisions
shall apply singly but not in combination. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-16-3: DEFINITION OF TERMS:
For the purposes of this zoning title, certain terms and words are hereby
defined. Certain sections contain definitions that are additional to those
listed here. Where terms are not specifically defined, their ordinarily
accepted meaning or meanings implied by their context shall apply. (Ord. 35-17,
10-17-2017)
11-16-4: A:
ABUTTING: Having lot lines or district boundaries in common. Use
interchangeably with adjacent.
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE: A building or use that is incidental to and
customarily associated with a specific principal use or building on the same
site.
ADDITION: Any construction that increases the size of a building or structure
in terms of site coverage, height, length, width, or gross floor area.
AGENT OF OWNER: Any person showing written verification that he/she is acting
for, and with the knowledge and consent of, a property owner.
ALLEY: A public right-of-way, other than a street and 20 feet or less in width
which is used as a secondary means of access to abutting property.
ALTERATION: Any construction or physical change in the internal arrangement of
spaces, the supporting members, the positioning on a site, or the appearance of
a building or structure.
APPROVING AUTHORITY: The city council of the city of Bettendorf or its
designee.
ATTACHED: Having one or more walls in common with a principal building or
connected to a principal building by an integral architectural element, such as
a covered passageway; facade wall extension; or archway. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-
2017)
11-16-5: B:
BASEMENT: That portion of a building partly or wholly below grade where more
than fifty percent (50%) of its perimeter is located more than fifty percent
(50%) of its height below grade. Height is the distance between the floor and
ceiling.
BED AND BREAKFAST HOME: A private residence having some historical or
architectural significance which provides lodging and meals for guests, in
which the host or hostess resides, and in which no more than two (2) guest
families at the same time and which, while it may advertise and accept
reservations, does not hold itself out to the public to be a restaurant, hotel,
or motel, does not require reservations, and serves food only to overnight
guests. The bed and breakfast home shall be conducted as a home occupation by
the owner who shall occupy and manage the facility. Toilet and lavatory
facilities shall be provided for exclusive use by the guests.
BED AND BREAKFAST HOTEL: A hotel or motel with ten to nineteen guestrooms (10
to 19) which is of some historical or architectural significance, is occupied
and managed by the owner, and provides separate toilet and lavatory facilities
for the occupant and every three (3) guestrooms. On-premises identification
signage shall be limited to one building sign up to nine (9) square feet in
area and either non-illuminated or "flood" lit.
BED AND BREAKFAST INN: A hotel which has three to nine (3 to 9) guestrooms, is
of some historical or architectural significance, is occupied and managed by
the owner, employs only the owner and his/her family and one additional person,
and which provides separate toilet and lavatory facilities for the occupant and
every three (3) guestrooms. On-premises identification signage shall be limited
to one building sign up to four (4) square feet in area and either non-
illuminated or "flood" lit.
BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION: The initial incorporation of labor and materials
within the foundation of a building or structure.
BLOCK: An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by streets
and/or the exterior boundaries of the subdivision, or by a combination of the
above with a watercourse, lake, railroad, or other significant natural or
manmade barrier, and which has been designated as such on a plat for the
purposes of legal description of a property.
BLOCK FACE: The property abutting one side of a street and lying between the
two (2) nearest intersection streets, or between the one nearest intersecting
street and a major physical barrier, including, but not limited to, railroads,
streams, lakes, or the corporate limits of Bettendorf.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: A body, established by the city expressly for the purpose
of granting relief from situations of hardship and to hear appeals as provided
by this title.
BUFFERYARD: A landscaped area around the perimeter of a tract of land, usually
intended to separate and partially obstruct the view of two (2) adjacent land
uses or properties from one another.
BUILDING: A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
shelter, support, enclosure, or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or
property. When separated by party walls, without opening through such walls,
each portion of such a building shall be considered a separate structure.
BUILDING AREA: The maximum horizontal projected area of the principal and
accessory building, excluding open steps or terraces, unenclosed porches not
exceeding one story in height, or architectural appurtenances projecting not
more than two feet.
BUILDING COVERAGE: The at-grade area of a site covered by buildings or roofed
areas, excluding allowed projecting eaves, balconies, and similar features,
also referred to as the building footprint.
BUILDING, DETACHED: A building having no structural connection with another
building.
BUILDING ELEVATION: An exterior wall of a building exposed to public view.
BUILDING ENVELOPE: The three-dimensional space within which a structure is
permitted to be built on a lot after all zoning and other applicable municipal
requirements have been met.
BUILDING, FRONT LINE OF: The line of the face of the building nearest the front
lot line.
BUILDING, HEIGHT OF: The vertical distance measured from the lot ground level
to the highest point of the roof for a flat roof, to the deck line of a mansard
roof, and to the mean height between eaves and ridges for gable, hip, and
gambrel roofs.
BUILDING LINE; BUILDING SETBACK LINE: The line nearest the front of and across
a lot establishing the minimum open space to be provided between the front line
of a building or structure and the front lot line.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The city official, designated by the city council, who is
responsible for the enforcement of the applicable building code.
BUILDING PERMIT: A permit signed by the building inspector stating that a
proposed improvement complies with the provisions of this title and such other
ordinances as may be applicable.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which is conducted the main or principal use
of the lot on which said building is situated. Where a substantial part of an
accessory building is attached to the principal building in a substantial
manner, as by a roof, such accessory building shall be counted as a part of the
principal building.
BUSINESS: The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter, or exchange of goods,
wares, merchandise or services, the maintenance or operation of offices, or
recreational and amusement enterprises for profit.
BUSINESS CENTER: A building containing more than one commercial business, or
any group of non-residential buildings within a common development,
characterized by shared parking and access. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-16-6: C:
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: A certificate signed by the building official stating
that the occupancy and use of land or a building or structure referred to
therein complies with the provisions of this title.
CHANGE OF USE: The replacement of an existing use type by a new use type.
CHANNEL: The bed or banks of a natural stream or drainageway that convey the
constant or intermittent flow of water, including storm run-off.
CITY PLANNER: The individual appointed by the mayor, by and with the consent of
the city council, to function, when authorized by ordinance or by the mayor, in
the administrative review of specific planning and zoning applications.
COMMON DEVELOPMENT: A development proposed and planned as one unified project
not separated by a public street or alley.
COMMON OPEN SPACE: Land unoccupied by structures, buildings, streets, rights-
of-way, and automobile parking lots and designed and intended for the use or
enjoyment of residents of a planned development. Common open space may contain
structures for recreational use.
COMPATIBILITY: The degree to which two (2) or more different land use types are
able to exist together in close proximity, with no one use having significant
negative effects on any other use.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The duly adopted comprehensive plan of the city of
Bettendorf.
CONCEPT PLAN: A preliminary presentation that includes the minimum information
necessary, as determined by the zoning administrator, to be used for the
purpose of discussion or classification of a proposed plat prior to formal
application.
COUNTY: Scott County, Iowa.COURT:An open unoccupied space other than a yard on
the same lot with a building, which is totally or partially enclosed by a
building or buildings, and is completely open to the sky. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-
2017)
11-16-7: D:
DENSITY: The numerical value obtained by dividing the gross area of the tract
of land upon which the dwelling units are located by the total dwelling units
in a development.
DESIGN STANDARDS: Standards that set forth specific improvement requirements.
DETACHED: Fully separated from any other building or not jointed to another
building in such a manner as to constitute an enclosed or covered connection.
DETENTION BASIN: An artificial or natural water collection facility, designed
to collect surface or subsurface water and to control its rate of discharge, in
order to prevent a net increase in the rate of water flow that existed prior to
a development.
DEVELOPER: The legal owner(s) or authorized agent of any land engaged in a
proposed development.
DEVELOPMENT: A planning or construction project involving substantial
improvement or change in the character and/or land use of a property.
DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A drawing, including a legal or site description of the real
estate involved in a planned unit development which shows the location and size
of the following, both existing and proposed: all buildings, structures, and
yards; location and dimension of building lines and easements; widths and
lengths of all entrances and exits to and from said real estate; location of
all adjacent or adjoining streets, service facilities, and other improvements,
such as planting areas.
DRIVE-UP SERVICES: Uses that involve the sale of products or provision of
services to occupants in vehicles.
DRAINAGE: The removal of surface or ground water from land by drains, grading,
or other means.
DRAINAGE SYSTEM: The system through which water flows from the land.DRIVEWAY:
A permanently paved, surfaced area providing vehicular access between a street
and an off-street parking or loading area.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, used primarily as a place of abode for
one or more human beings, but not including hotels or motels, lodging or
boarding houses, or tourist homes. Descriptions of dwelling types are located
in Section
11-2-4, Residential Use Types.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms, designed, occupied, or intended for occupancy
as a separate place of residence, with cooking, sleeping, and sanitary
facilities provided within the dwelling unit for the exclusive use of one
family, as defined in this section, maintaining a household. (Ord. 35-17, 10-
17-2017)
11-16-8: E:
EASEMENT: A privilege or right of use granted on, above, under, or across a
particular tract of land for a specific purpose by one owner to another owner,
public or private agency, or utility, where fee simple title remains with the
property owner.
ENCLOSED: A roofed or covered space fully surrounded by walls.
EXISTING USE: The use of a lot or structure at the time of the effective date
of this title. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-16-9: F:
FAMILY: An individual, or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage,
or adoption, or a group of not more than three (3) persons (excluding servants)
not related by blood, marriage, or adoption, living together as a single
housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit, but not including sororities,
fraternities, or other similar organizations.
FARM: Land, including necessary buildings and structures, not less than forty
(40) acres in area, used for the raising of soil crops or the raising of
animals as the principal occupation of the residents or users thereof.
FARM HOMESTEAD: The dwelling occupied by the farm owner, tenant operator, or
family of a son or daughter of the farm owner or tenant.
FASCIA: A parapet-type wall used as part of the facade of a flat-roofed
building and projecting no more than six feet (6') from the immediately
adjacent building face. Such a wall shall enclose at least three (3) sides of
the projecting flat roof and return to the parapet wall or the building.
FEDERAL: Pertaining to the government of the United States of America.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The quotient of gross floor area of all buildings on a site
divided by gross site area of the site.
FRONTAGE: The length of a property line of any one premise abutting and
parallel to a public street, private way, or court from which access is
permitted. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-16-10: G:
GARAGE: An accessory building or portion of a main building used primarily for
storage of motor vehicles.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A structure, attached to or detached from the principal
structure, to accommodate the parking or storage of motor-driven vehicles which
are the property of and for the private use of the occupants of the lot on
which the private garage is located.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: Any building, except those defined herein as a private garage,
used for the storage or care of motor vehicles, or where such vehicles are
equipped for operation, repaired, or kept for remuneration, hire, or sale.
GRADE:
   1.    The elevation of the finished surface of ground, paving, or sidewalk
adjacent to any building line.
   2.    For buildings having no walls facing a street, the grade shall be the
average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior
walls of the building.
GROSS FLOOR AREA (GFA): The total enclosed horizontal area of all floors of a
building, measured to the inside surfaces of the exterior walls. This
definition excludes the areas of mechanical equipment rooms, elevator shafts,
airspaces above atriums, and enclosed off-street parking and loading areas
serving a principal use.
GROUND FLOOR AREA: The square foot area of a residential building within its
largest outside dimensions computed on a horizontal plane at the ground floor
level, exclusive of open porches, breezeways, terraces, garages, and exterior
stairways. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-16-11: H:
HEIGHT: See Building, Height for definition of building height. For other
cases, height shall be measured as the vertical distance from the established
grade to the highest point of a structure as herein defined. Where a building
or structure is located on a slope, height shall be measured from the average
grade level adjacent to the building or structure.
HOME-BASED BUSINESS/HOME OCCUPATION: An accessory occupational use conducted
within a dwelling unit or accessory structure by its inhabitants, which is
clearly incidental to the residential use of the dwelling unit or residential
structure and does not change the residential character of its site. (Ord. 35-
17, 10-17-2017)
11-16-12: I:
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE:Those areas which prevent or impede the infiltration of
stormwater into the soil as it enters natural conditions prior to development.
Common impervious areas include, but are not limited to, rooftops, sidewalks,
walkways, patio areas, driveways, parking lots, storage areas, compacted gravel
and soil surfaces, awnings and other fabric or plastic coverings, and other
surfaces which prevent or impede the natural infiltration of stormwater runoff
which existed prior to development. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-16-13: J:
(Reserved)
11-16-14: K:
(Reserved)
11-16-15: L:
LANDSCAPED AREA:The area within the boundaries of a given lot, site, or common
development consisting primarily of plant material, including but not limited
to grass, trees, shrubs, vines, ground cover, and other organic plant
materials, or grass paver masonry units installed such that the appearance of
the area is primarily landscaped.
   1.    Perimeter Landscaped Area: Any required landscaped area that adjoins
the exterior boundary of a lot, site, or common development.
   2.    Interior Landscaped Area: Any landscaped area within a site exclusive
of required perimeter landscaping.
LAND USE AND ZONING PLAT: A drawing or map made to a measurable scale upon
which is presented a description and definition of the way in which the design
requirements of the planned development are to be met and intended for
recording with the county recorder.
LIVE/WORK DWELLING: A dwelling unit used for both residential purposes and any
non-residential use permitted in the zoning district in which the unit is
located, provided that not more than two (2) people who do not reside in the
unit are employed on the premises.
LOADING AREA: An off-street area used for the loading or unloading of goods
from a vehicle in connection with the use of the site on which such area is
located.
LONG-TERM RENTAL: Lodging to accommodate guests paying a fee or other
compensation for a period of more than thirty one (31) consecutive days.
LOT: A parcel, tract, or area of land accessible by means of a street or place.
It may be a single parcel, separately described in a deed or plat which is
recorded in the office of the recorder of Scott County, or it may include parts
of or a combination of such parcels when adjacent to one another and used as
one. In determining lot area and boundary lines, no part within the limits of a
street shall be included.
   1.    Corner Lot: A lot located at the junction of at least two (2) streets,
private ways, or courts, or at least two (2) segments of a curved street,
private way, or court, at which the angle of intersection is no greater than
one hundred thirty five (135) degrees.
   2.    Interior Lot: A lot other than a corner lot whose sides do not abut a
street.
   3.    Through Lot: A lot, other than a corner lot, having frontage on two
non-intersecting streets, private ways, or courts. Primary access shall be
restricted on a double frontage lot to the minor of the two streets or to the
front line as determined at time of platting or as defined by this ordinance.
(Also known as a Double Frontage Lot.)
LOT AREA: The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side, and rear
lot lines.
LOT COVERAGE: The percentage of the lot area covered by the building area.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the rear
lot line of a lot, measured in the general direction of the side lot line.
LOT LINE: A property boundary line(s) of record that divides one lot from
another lot or a lot from the public or private street right-of-way or
easement.
   1.    Front Lot Line: The lot line separating a lot and a public or private
street right-of-way or easement.      
      a.    For an interior lot, the lot line separating the lot from the
right-of-way or easement.
      b.    For a corner lot, the shorter lot line abutting a public or private
street or easement. In instances of equal line dimension, the front lot line
shall be determined by the building official, or as may be noted on the final
plat.
      c.    For a double frontage lot, the lot lines separating the lot from
the right-of-way or easement of the more minor street. In cases where each
street has the same classification, the front lot line shall be determined by
the building official at the time of application for the original building
permit for the lot, or as may be noted on the final plat.
   2.    Rear Lot Line: The lot line that is opposite and most distant from the
front lot line. For irregularly-shaped or triangular lots, the required rear
yard shall be established by applying the rear yard setback requirement from
the corners of the irregularly shaped lot or the point of the triangle.
   3.    Side Lot Line: Any lot line that is neither a front or rear lot line.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been legally recorded.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance measured between the side lot lines of a
lot, at right angles to its depth along a straight line parallel to the front
lot line at the minimum required building setback line. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-
2017)
11-16-16: M:
MANUFACTURED HOME: A factory built single-family structure, which is
manufactured or constructed under the authority of 42 USC Section 5403 and is
to be used as a place for human habitation, but which is not constructed with a
permanent hitch or other device, including wheels and axles, other than for the
purpose of moving to a permanent site. For the purpose of these regulations, a
manufactured home shall be built after June 15, 1976, and bear a seal
certifying that it is in compliance with 42 USC Section 5403. A mobile home is
not a manufactured home unless it is located on a foundation which conforms to
Uniform Building Code requirements, has been established as real property, and
is taxed as a site built dwelling. A manufactured home, meeting the preceding
requirements, shall be considered the same as a site built single-family
detached dwelling.
MIXED-USE BUILDING: A building or structure that incorporates two (2) or more
use types within a single building or structure, provided that each use type is
permitted within the individual base zoning district in which the building or
structure is to be located.
MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT: A single development that incorporates various land use
types into a single development.
MOBILE HOME: Any vehicle without motive power used or so manufactured or
constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon the public streets
and highways and so designed, constructed, or reconstructed as will permit the
vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or more persons, but
the term also includes any such vehicle with motive power not registered as a
motor vehicle in this state. A mobile home is factory-built housing built on a
chassis. A mobile home shall not be construed to be a travel trailer or other
form of recreational vehicle. A mobile home shall be construed to remain a
mobile home, subject to all regulations applying thereto, whether or not
wheels, axles, hitch, or other appurtenances of mobility are removed and
regardless of the nature of the foundation provided. However, certain mobile
homes may be classified as "manufactured homes." Nothing in this chapter shall
be construed as permitting a mobile home in other than an approved mobile home
park, unless such mobile home is classified as a manufactured home.
MOBILE HOME PARK: An area of land upon which two (2) or more mobile homes are
harbored for the purpose of being occupied either free of charge or for revenue
purposes, and shall include any building, structure, vehicle, or enclosure used
or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such mobile home park. (Ord.
35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-16-17: N:
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A building or structure or portion thereof lawfully
existing at the time of adoption of this title, or amendment thereto, which was
designed, erected, or structurally altered for a use that does not conform to
the use regulations of the district in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING LOT: A lot which was lawful prior to the adoption, revision, or
amendment of this zoning title but that fails by reason of such adoption,
revision, or amendment to conform to the present requirements of the zoning
title. No action can be taken which would increase the non-conforming
characteristics of the lot.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: A sign that was legally erected prior to the adoption,
revision, or amendment of this zoning title but that fails by reason of such
adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present requirements of this
zoning title.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use which lawfully occupies a building or land at the time
of adoption of this title, or amendment thereto, and which does not conform
with the use regulations of the district in which it is located.NUISANCE:An
unreasonable and continuous invasion of the use and enjoyment of a property
right which a reasonable person would find annoying, unpleasant, obnoxious, or
offensive. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-16-18: O:
OFF-SITE: Located outside the boundaries of the parcel that is the subject of
an application.
OPEN SPACE: Area included on any site or lot that is open and unobstructed to
the sky, except for allowed projections of cornices, overhangs, porches,
balconies, or plant materials.
OUTDOOR STORAGE: The storage of materials, parts, or products that are related
to the primary use of a site for a period exceeding three days.
OVERLAY DISTRICT: A zoning district of the Bettendorf zoning ordinance which is
combined simultaneously with another zoning classification to give special
regulation to designated areas of the city.
OWNER: An individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, or corporation
having sufficient proprietary interest to seek development of land. (Ord. 35-
17, 10-17-2017)
11-16-19: P:
PARKING AREA, PUBLIC: An open area, other than a street or alley, designed for
use or used for the temporary parking of more than four motor vehicles when
available for public use, whether free or for compensation, or as an
accommodation for clients or customers, paved with a suitable dust preventive
or hard surface.
PARKING SPACES: An area on a lot and/or within a building, intended for the use
of temporary parking of a personal vehicle. This term is used interchangeably
with "parking stall." Each parking space must have a means of access to a
public street. Tandem parking stalls in single-family detached, single-family
attached, and townhouse residential uses shall be considered to have a means of
access to a public street.
PAVED: Permanently surfaced with poured concrete, concrete pavers, or asphalt.
PERFORMANCE BOND: A surety bond or cash deposit posted by a contractor or
developer made out to the city in an amount equal to the full cost of the
improvements. The bond amount shall be that of the contract price and shall be
legally sufficient to secure to the city that said improvements will be
constructed in accordance with the terms of the contract documents within a
period specified by this ordinance.
PERFORMANCE STANDARD: A criterion established to control noise, odor, smoke,
toxic or noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, or glare or
heat generated by, or inherent in, uses of land or buildings.
PERMITTED USE: A land-use type allowed as a matter of right in a zoning
district, subject only to special requirements of this zoning ordinance.
PERSON: A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, or any
other group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person.
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of the city
of Bettendorf.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A development of land which is under unified control
and is planned and developed as a whole in a single-development operation or
programmed series of development stages. The development may include streets,
circulation ways, utilities, buildings, open spaces, and other site features
and improvements.
PLAT: A map or chart indicating the subdivision or re-subdivision of land,
intended to be filed for record.
PORCH, UNENCLOSED: A roofed or unroofed open structure projecting from an
exterior wall of a building and having no enclosed features more than thirty
inches (30") above its floor other than wire screening and a roof with
supporting structure.
PREMISES: A lot, parcel, tract, or plot of land, contiguous and under common
ownership or control, together with the buildings and structure thereon.
PRINCIPAL USE: The main use of land or structures as distinguished from an
accessory use.
PROPERTY LINE: The boundary between separate property ownerships, as recorded
by the legal description of a parcel and defined by the Scott County recorder.
In subdivisions, property lines are usually but not in every case coincident
with lot lines. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-16-20: Q:
(Reserved)
11-16-21: R:
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle towed or self-propelled on its own chassis or
attached to the chassis of another vehicle and designed or used for temporary
dwelling, recreational, or sporting purposes. Recreational vehicles include,
but are not limited to, travel trailers, campers, motor coach homes, converted
buses and trucks, boats, boat trailers, horse trailers, and utility trailers.
REGULATION: A specific requirement set forth by this zoning title that must be
followed.
REMOTE PARKING: A supply of off-street parking at a location not on the site of
a given development. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-16-22:   S:
SCREENING: The method by which a view of one site from another adjacent site is
shielded, concealed, or hidden. Screening techniques include fences, walls,
hedges, berms, or other features as may be permitted by the landscape
provisions of this ordinance.
SETBACK: The distance as required by the minimum setback(s) which establishes
the horizontal component(s) of the building envelope.
SHORT-TERM RENTAL: Lodging to accommodate guests paying a fee or other
compensation for a period of less than thirty one (31) consecutive days in
conformance with the zoning title regulations.
SIDEWALK: A paved path provided for pedestrian use, usually located at the side
of and detached from a road, but within the right-of-way.
SIGN: A symbolic, visual device fixed upon a building, vehicle, structure, or
parcel of land, which is intended to convey information about a product,
business, activity, place, person, institution, candidate, or political idea.
SITE: The parcel of land to be developed or built upon. A site may encompass a
single lot, or a group of lots developed as a common development under the
special and overlay districts provisions of this title.
SITE PLAN: A plan, prepared to scale, showing accurately and with complete
dimensioning, the boundaries of a site and the location of all buildings,
structures, uses, and principal site development features proposed for a
specific parcel of land, and any other information that may be reasonably
requested by the city in order that an informed decision can be made on the
associated request.
STATE: The state of Iowa.
STORM SEWER: A sewer that carries stormwater, surface water, and groundwater
drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
STORY: The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the next floor above it; if there is no floor above it, the
space between such floor and the next ceiling above it. A half story is a story
under a sloped roof, the wall heights of which on at least two (2) opposite,
exterior walls are less than four feet (4').
STREET: A right-of-way or thoroughfare, other than an alley, dedicated or
otherwise legally established to the public use, usually affording the
principal means of access to abutting property.
STREETS AND ROADWAYS: The existing roadway classification system, as defined
and approved in the Quad Cities Metro Long Range Transportation Plan (LRTP),
including the following street types:
   1.    Interstate.
   2.    Principal arterial.
   3.    Minor arterial.
   4.    Collector.
   5.    Local.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the supporting members of a building, such
as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any substantial
change in the exterior walls or the roof.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or attachment to something having a location on the ground. (Ord. 35-17,
10-17-2017)
11-16-23: T:
TOWNHOUSE: A dwelling unit having a common wall with or abutting one or more
adjacent dwelling units in a townhouse structure, with its own front and rear
access to the outside, and neither above nor below any other dwelling unit.
TOWNHOUSE STRUCTURE: A building formed by at least three (3) and not more than
twelve (12) contiguous townhouses with common or abutting walls. (Ord. 35-17,
10-17-2017)
11-16-24: U:
UNDERLYING ZONE:One of the regular zoning classifications listed in Chapter 4
of this title which provides basic guidelines for an overlay district which may
alter in some manner the guidelines of the regular zoning
classification.UNIFIED CONTROL:The combination of two (2) or more tracts of
land wherein each owner has agreed that his or her tract of land shall be
developed as part of a planned unit development and shall be subject to the
control applicable to the planned development.USE:The employment or occupation
of a building, structure, or land for a person's service, benefit, or
enjoyment. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-16-25: V:
VACATION: The official abandonment of public right-of-way or easement by the
city in accordance with state law.
VARIANCE: A modification of the application of certain regulations or
provisions of this title by the board of adjustment, under the authority
provided by this ordinance and state statutes.
VEHICLE, MOTOR: Any passenger vehicle, motorcycle, recreational vehicle, or
truck that is propelled or drawn by mechanical power. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-16-26: W:
(Reserved)
11-16-27: X:
(Reserved)
11-16-28:   Y:
YARD: An open space on a lot which shall be unoccupied and unobstructed by
structures, except as otherwise permitted, and extends along a lot line and at
right angles to such lot line to a depth or width specified in the yard
regulations for the zoning district in which such lot is located.
   1.    Front Yard: The space extending the full width of a lot and measured
between the front lot line and the required setback line. For a corner lot, the
front yard shall normally be defined as that yard along a street which meets
one of the following two criteria:
      a.    The yard along the block face to which a greater number of
structures are oriented, or
      b.    The yard along a street that has the smaller horizontal dimension.
   2.    Rear Yard: A yard extending across the full width of the lot between
the rear lot line and the line nearest the rear of and across a lot
establishing the minimum open space to be provided between the front line of a
building or structure and the rear lot line.
   3.    Side Yard: A yard extending from the front yard or from the front lot
line where no front yard is required, to the rear yard or the rear lot line
where no rear yard is required between the side lot line and the line nearest
the side of a lot establishing the minimum open space to be provided between
the side of the principal building or structure and the side lot line. (Ord.
35-17, 10-17-2017)
11-16-29: Z:
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The individual appointed by the mayor, by and with the
consent of the city council, to administer and enforce the zoning ordinance in
the city of Bettendorf.
ZONING DISTRICT: A designated specified land classification, within which all
sites are subject to a unified group of use and site development regulations
set forth in this zoning ordinance.
ZONING LOT: A parcel of land of sufficient size to meet the minimum
requirements of this title concerning use, coverage, width, area, yards and
other open space, and having frontage on an improved street. (Ord. 35-17, 10-
17-2017)
APPENDIX 1
SITE PLAN REVIEW
SECTION:
A-1-1: Required Notations
A-1-2: Site Plan Review
A-1-3:    Review Of Site Plans For Projects Within DCA Districts
A-1-1:  REQUIRED NOTATIONS:
When required by the Board of Adjustment or the Planning and Zoning Commission
for planned development and special use requests, a site plan for an area may
contain and locate by notation, as the board or commission may require:
   A.   Existing grading and proposed grading at two foot (2') contours.
   B.   Proposed street and existing street with both paving and right of way
indicated.
   C.   All utility easements, both privately owned and municipal, and any
proposed.
   D.   Outline of proposed or existing building on the site.
   E.   Proposed or existing paving or surfaced area for driveways or parking
lots, or other uses for durable surface.
   F.   Proposed or existing sidewalk locations and easements, if appropriate.
   G.   Proposed and existing landscaping and other existing natural features.
   H.   Proposed or existing sign location and sign height.
   I.   Location map, locating the site within the city.
   J.   Identification of existing and proposed plats and development on
adjacent property as well as the location of existing and proposed signs within
one hundred feet (100') of the site.
   K.   Proposed or existing property lines.
   L.   Proposed or existing fencing and identification of the type and height
of fence.
   M.   Proposed or existing access or other easements.
   N.   Location of proposed or existing manholes, drainage intake, fire
hydrants, utility pole anchors and guides.
   O.   Front, side and rear setbacks.
   P.   Key plan, legend and notes.
   Q.   The scale, north point and date.
   R.   Proposed and existing features not otherwise mentioned, such as
specific recreational areas and equipment, water retention areas, ponds,
waterways, etc.
   S.   Perspective drawing of the site showing concept described in the site
plan, specifically representing the building and sign appearance and contour
effect of the site.
   T.   Elevation plans for exterior vertical and horizontal design of the
buildings and sign which are being contemplated.
   U.   Construction plans for public or private improvements for streets and
sewer in accordance with the procedures of title 12 of this code.
   V.   Legal documents such as, but not limited to, homeowners' association,
restrictive covenants, agreement contracts or other documents necessary to
ensure the concept involved. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
A-1-2: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   Purpose: In accordance with the comprehensive plan of the city, it is
essential that new developments on currently undeveloped land meet established
minimum standards for the design of such developments, to protect existing
developments, to ensure adequate provisions for public/private utilities, such
as sewer, water, and roads, and promote the health, safety, and general welfare
of the public.
   B.   Application: A site plan review is required whenever a person, firm,
corporation or other group wishes to develop a tract of land for other than
single-family or duplex residential use. If the proposed use is a principal
permitted use within that zoning district, the Planning and Zoning Commission
will review the site plan. For special uses, the site plan shall require review
by the commission and approval of such special use by the board of adjustment.
All applications shall have the signature of the property owner, as well as the
purchaser/developer, if any.
   C.   Procedure: Twelve (12) copies of the application and development plan
for a proposal listed in subsection B of this section shall be filed with the
planning coordinator, who will determine if all the information is provided and
adequate for review. Once all the required information is received, the
planning coordinator shall immediately forward copies of the site plan to the
city engineer, fire chief and zoning administrator for their review and
recommendation. Notification signs shall be posted by the applicant in accord
with the requirements of subsection F of this section. The planning coordinator
will schedule a review by the Planning and Zoning Commission at the next
regular meeting beyond ten (10) working days of official receipt.
      1.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the site plan
proposal at said meeting and receive a report from the city engineer, fire
chief, the zoning administrator, the planning coordinator and receive comments
from the public. The commission shall make its determination of conditions for
approval of the site plan within thirty-five (35) days of the first meeting. If
no action is forthcoming within the thirty-five (35) days, the site plan shall
be forwarded on to the City Council for action. The City Council shall not act
upon the site plan proposal until it has received a recommendation from the
Planning and Zoning Commission, unless such recommendation is not received
within sixty (60) days from the filing date.
      2.   The City Council shall, after considering the Planning and Zoning
Commission recommendations, approve, approve with modifications, or deny any
proposal by resolution. The City Council may include such conditions in its
resolution of approval as it deems necessary in order to accomplish the stated
purpose of this section. If the site plan proposal is not acted upon finally by
the City Council within sixty (60) days of the date the council receives the
Planning and Zoning Commission recommendation, and such time is not extended by
mutual consent of the council and petitioner, it shall be deemed denied.
      3.   The petitioner may request that his site plan proposal be held from
further action for an unstated length of time; however, if such length of time
exceeds one hundred eighty (180) days, the proposal shall be considered
withdrawn and shall be reconsidered only upon refiling a new proposal meeting
all requirements of this appendix.
   D.   Site Plan Review Standards: The standards of site design listed below
are intended only as minimum requirements, so that the general development
pattern in the city may be adjusted to a wide variety of circumstances and
topography, and to ensure reasonable and orderly growth in Bettendorf.
      1.   All proposed developments shall conform to the land use policies of
the comprehensive plan of the city; the subdivision ordinance standards and
procedure, where applicable; such other city ordinances as may pertain to such
developments; and any applicable rules and regulations of the Iowa department
of transportation, the department of health, the Iowa department of natural
resources and other agencies of the state of Iowa.
         a.   To conform to the land use policies of the comprehensive plan of
the city, review should include evaluation under
Table A-1-3 D.2. and subsection
A-1-3 E.2. - 5. of this appendix for applicable location, design, and
compatibility criteria.
      2.   Internal roads and streets shall be adequately constructed to
accommodate the traffic generated. Entrances and exits onto public streets
shall not unduly increase congestion or traffic hazards on the public streets
and the proposed site.
      3.   The proposed development shall be designed with appropriate regard
for topography, surface drainage, natural drainageways and streams, wooded
areas, and other naturally sensitive areas which lend themselves to protection
from degradation.
      4.   The proposed development shall be designed with adequate water
supply and sewage treatment facilities and stormwater drains and structures
necessary to protect the public health and welfare by not overloading existing
public utilities. Except when waived by the City Council, runoff from
development shall not be outletted into drainage facilities in excess of the
existing runoff prior to development.
      5.   The proposed development shall be designed, and the buildings and
improvement shall be located within the tract or parcel in such a manner as not
to unduly diminish or impair the use and enjoyment of adjoining or surrounding
property. And to such end, the developer shall provide for such fences,
landscaping and other improvements as are proper and necessary to buffer the
proposed use from the existing or potential surrounding land uses.
      6.   The proposed development shall be designed not to unduly increase
the public danger of fire, explosion, and other safety hazards on the general
public and the persons residing or working in adjoining or surrounding
property.
   E.   Information On Site Plan: The purpose of the site plan is to show the
facts needed to enable the Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council to
determine whether the proposed development meets the requirements of this
appendix and complies with the standards listed in subsection D of this
section. The site plan at a scale of one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20') (1:
240) or larger shall be prepared by an engineer, landscape architect, urban
planner, or other similar professional and shall include the following:
      1.   Location map showing relationship to surrounding roads, streams, and
public facilities. (The location map may be at scale up to one inch equals 30
feet (1" = 30') (1:3,600).)
      2.   The existing site conditions including contours at maximum five foot
(5') intervals, watercourses and floodplains, unique natural features, and all
trees five inches (5") or more in diameter measured four feet (4') above
natural ground line or general wooded areas.
      3.   All required linear yard dimensions of the requested district and
those provided if different from required.
      4.   Parking spaces, drives, radius of curvature of ingress and egress
drives, circulation patterns of traffic, access to public or private streets,
and location of all structures.
      5.   Physical characteristics pertinent to the development.
      6.   The total lot area to be reclassified and exterior lot dimensions;
the square footage and percentage of the lot covered by existing and proposed
structure(s) and hard surfacing; and area of required yards and open space.
      7.   The number of parking spaces required and number provided.
      8.   The following identification: owner's name, the requested
reclassification, location of the property, petitioner's name, address and
phone number, agent's name and phone number if involved in the reclassification
request.
      9.   All dimensions necessary to assure that the proposed development is
in accord with the requirements of this title.
      10.   Date, north marker, name of proposed development.
      11.   Location and name of adjoining subdivisions, subdivision lots
therein, and names of the adjoining landowners.
      12.   Zoning district classification; type of water supply and sewage
disposal and storm sewer disposal.
      13.   Such other information as deemed necessary by the City Council and/
or city Planning and Zoning Commission.
   F.   Public Notification Of Site Plan Proposal:
      1.   Signs Provided: The city clerk, or person designated by the city
clerk, shall provide each applicant requesting site plan approval with at least
two (2) notification signs containing the date, time and place of the planning
and zoning commission meeting. Said signs shall be clearly posted by the
applicant on the property for which the request has been made. On large
parcels, additional signs may be required to be posted. At least one sign must
be placed so that it may be seen from a street, and in the case of through lots
and/or corner lots, a sign shall be posted on both frontages. When a property
is in the interior of a block or tract of land, additional signs may be
required to be posted adjacent to and facing the surrounding properties. For
each sign provided, the applicant shall pay a fee in an amount established,
from time to time, by the city council by resolution.
      2.   Posting Of Notification Signs: Notification signs shall be posted at
least ten (10) days before the planning and zoning commission meeting which
said dates shall be noted on the sign. It shall be the applicant's
responsibility to see that said signs remain posted during the entire ten (10)
day period. If the signs are not posted in accordance with the preceding
requirements, the planning and zoning commission may delay action on the
petition, except that if the applicant satisfies the commission that the signs
were initially posted at least ten (10) days prior to the commission meeting
and that the applicant made diligent efforts to keep the signs posted during
the entire period, and that only circumstances beyond the applicant's control
prevented a continuous posting, the commission may act on the petition.
      3.   Action At Other Than Specified Times: If the commission is to
initially act on the petitioner's request at any time other than that specified
on the rezoning notification signs, the petitioner may be required to obtain
and post new signs with new dates.
      4.   Removal Of Signs: Signs required to be posted pursuant to this
section must be removed within seventy two (72) hours after the hearing date
listed on the sign.
   G.   Changes To An Approved Site Development Plan: The development shall be
developed according to the approved site development plan except where
authorized changes are permitted. The approved site development plan and
supporting data shall be binding on the applicants, their successors, grantees
and assigns.
      1.   Major Changes: A change in the approved site development plan which
alters the concept or intent of the development including a change in the
configuration, increase in floor area or the height of buildings, an increase
in intensity, a reduction of proposed open space, a change in road locations or
standards, or other major changes, shall be approved only by submission of a
new site plan in accordance with the procedures as previously set forth for the
approval of site development plans.
      2.   Minor Changes: Addition or expansions of use of an existing facility
or structures of not more than ten percent (10%) of the existing structure may
be considered a minor change. The development review committee may approve
minor changes in the site development plan which does not change the concept or
intent of the development.
   H.   Approved Plans Superseded By Approved Revised Plans: All approved site
development plans superseded by an approved revised site development plan shall
be considered to be null and void at the time of approval of the revised plan.
   I.   Fees: Before the site plan is considered by the commission, the
developer or his agent shall pay a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for a site
plan of five (5) acres or less, and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a site
plan on more than five (5) acres. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
A-1-3: REVIEW OF SITE PLANS FOR PROJECTS WITHIN DCA DISTRICTS:
The city's comprehensive plan recommends a more flexible land use approach,
allowing mixing of uses, to regulate newly developing areas as well as existing
areas that may redevelop. The preamble to this zoning title indicates how the
development character area zoning approach meets this intent. This section
describes the procedures by which the DCA approach is implemented.
   A.   Required Information: Site plans for properties located within DCA
designated areas are required to include all of the information listed in
Section
A-1-2 for standard site plans, as well as the following additional information:
      1.   Data needed to evaluate the density or intensity of the proposed
project. For residential development, the total number of dwelling units and
the net land area occupied by those units are required. For non-residential
development, the total gross floor area of the buildings and the total site
area are required to calculate the development's Floor Area Ratio (FAR). In
addition, the total site impervious surface coverage and total open space
percentage must be submitted.
      2.   Detailed listing of the range of permitted zoning uses proposed for
the project.
   B.   Review Steps: As included in Bettendorf's comprehensive plan, and
summarized in the preamble, there are four characteristics of DCAs that
determine appropriateness of a particular project. These are:
      1.   Types of permitted uses.
      2.   Intensity, or density.
      3.   Form, or design.
      4.   Compatibility (transitions between uses).
The review of development projects within DCAs involves the evaluation of each
of these characteristics within the context of a specific proposed location.
The review therefore involves an evaluation of the characteristics of the
project itself and a review of its specific location, evaluating the impacts of
the project on the surrounding properties and environment. This review involves
the evaluation of both "regulations" and "guidelines," as defined above in
Subsection
A-1-2. The review process is broken down into four steps.
   C.   Step 1 - Permitted Uses And Intensity:
      1.   The first review step is to determine if the proposed use or uses
fall within the particular DCA's range of permitted uses and intensities. The
permitted use determination is made by referring to Tables
11-8-5 A., B., and C. in Title 11, which indicate all the use types that are
permitted in each of the three development character area designations. If the
proposed use(s) is/are permitted, the review may proceed. If not, the project
cannot proceed under that DCA designation.
      2.   Intensity evaluation, determines if the proposed project falls
within the particular DCA's range of permitted development intensities. For
residential projects, intensity is defined by the number of dwelling units per
acre (du/ac). Acceptable ranges of dwelling units per acre for each residential
use type permitted in the DCA is identified in Sections
11-9-3,
11-9-4, and
11-9-5 in Title 11. For non-residential projects, intensity is evaluated with
the Floor Area Ratio (FAR) calculation. Maximum FARs for each DCA are indicated
in the same three subsections of Title 11, Chapter 9. The project must fall
within the permitted DCA range in order to proceed.
      3.   The use and intensity evaluation of proposed projects is typically
discussed and resolved at the pre-application conference.
   D.   Step 2 - Location and Design:
      1.   The second review step is the determination of whether the project
is appropriate for its specific context. Here the evaluation moves from the
objective review of standards to a review of guidelines, as described above. To
assist in this review, Table A-1-3D1 summarizes "location/compatibility
characteristics" and "service and infrastructure requirements" of land uses
within DCAs.
   Table A-1-3D1
 
Typical Location/Compatibility Characteristics                                             Service and Infrastructure Requirements
DCA's
        •   Areas should be buffered from uses with adverse environmental effect,     •   Full urban services.
U-LI,   including noise, odors, air and light pollution, and heavy traffic.                •   Framework of interconnected streets and sidewalks or
U-MI    •   Compatibility may be achieved with density and land use transitions, from paths.
        lower to higher densities.
        •   Reasonable access or location on collector or arterial streets.           •   Full urban services.
U-LI,   •   Convenient access to neighborhood commercial services.                    •   Framework of interconnected streets and sidewalks or
U-MI    •   Buffering from or mitigation of adverse environmental effects, including  paths.
        noise, odors, air and light pollution, and heavy traffic.                          •   May include internal or alley access.
        •   Compatibility may be achieved with density and land use transitions.
        •   Adjacency to collector or arterial streets                                •   Full urban services.
        •   Convenient access or integration into neighborhood and/or community commer•   Framework of interconnected streets and sidewalks or
U-MI,   areas.                                                                             paths.
U-HI    •   Buffering from or mitigation of adverse environmental effects, including  •   Transit and bicycle access.
        noise, odors, air and light pollution, and heavy traffic.                          •   May include internal or alley access.
        •   Compatibility may be achieved with density and land use transitions.
 
      2.   In addition, Table A-1-3D2 below provides a checklist of locational
and design factors that can be used to evaluate a specific project at a
specific location. Planning staff will evaluate the proposed project
considering these and other relevant factors, and make a report and
recommendation to the planning and zoning commission regarding the
appropriateness of the proposed project in the proposed location. This is the
staff report for the planning and zoning commission for an application for a
land use amendment and or rezoning. After the planning and zoning commission
meeting, staff will produce a council letter and ordinance amendments. Staff
will submit the ordinance(s) for consideration to the city council.
   Table A-1-3D2
DCA Evaluation: Location and Design Project Evaluation
DCA Evaluation: Location and Design                                                            Project
                                                                                               Evaluation
Site Development
Frontage    •   Project frontage along a street should be similar to lot width.            
            •   Parking should serve all structures with minimal conflicts between pedestrians
Parking and and vehicles.
Internal    •   All structures must be accessible to public safety vehicles.               
Circulation •   Development must have access to adjacent public streets and ways. Internal
            circulation should minimize conflicts and congestion at public access points.
            •   Landscaping should be integral to the development, providing street
            landscaping, breaks in uninterrupted paved areas, and buffering where required by
Landscaping surrounding land uses. Parts of site with sensitive environmental features or       
            natural drainageways should be preserved.
            •   Other
Building Design
            •   Architectural design and building materials should be compatible with
           surrounding areas or highly visible locations.                                      
            •   Other
Operating Characteristics
            •   Project should not obstruct traffic on adjacent streets. Compensating
            improvements will be required to mitigate impact on street system operations.
Traffic     •   Larger commercial or office use areas should begin on or near arterial and 
Capacity    collector streets.
            •   Smaller commercial uses areas may be appropriate to begin on or near collector
            and local streets.
External    •   Project design should attempt to direct non-residential traffic away from
Traffic     residential areas.                                                                  
Effects
Operating   •   Projects with long operating hours must minimize effects on surrounding    
Hours       residential areas.
Outside     •   Outside storage areas must be screened from surrounding streets and less   
Storage     intensive land uses.
           •   Other                                                                      
Public Facilities
Sanitary    •   Developments within 300 feet of a public sanitary sewer must connect to sewer
Waste       system. Individual disposal systems, if permitted, shall not adversely affect       
Disposal    public health, safety, or welfare.
            •   Sanitary sewer must have adequate capacity to serve development.
            •   Development should handle storm water adequately to prevent overloading of
Storm Water public storm water management system.                                               
Management  •   Storm water runoff should not inhibit development of other properties.     
            •   Development should not increase probability of erosion, flooding, landslides,
            or other run-off related effects.
 
   E.   Step 3 - Compatibility:
      1.   Step three is a review of the project to determine whether it is
compatible with its neighboring land uses. Table A-1-3E1 summarizes the
compatibility characteristics of each of the zoning ordinance DCAs.
   Table A-1-3E1
 
Development
Character   Compatibility Characteristics
Area
            •   Compatibility will be achieved through gradual increases of intensity
            transitioning from one land use to another. A cross-section of this area may show
Urban Low   large lot single family next to medium lot single family, next to small lot single
Intensity   family, next to townhomes, next to small commercial. Although the focus is on
            gradual changes in intensity, these changes should occur at a small enough scale to
            ensure inclusion of a range of land uses within roughly a quarter square mile (160
            acres) in order to encourage walking, biking, and the reduction of auto trips.
            •   Different intensities of land use are positioned to create a smooth transition
            from lower to higher intensity uses.
           •   Larger commercial or office use areas should begin on or near arterial and
            collector streets.
            •   Smaller commercial use areas should begin on or near collector and local
            streets.
            •   As compared to ULI areas, compatibility should be achieved through increased
            attention to traffic circulation and parking, site and building design, and on-site
            operations.
            •   Land uses are sometimes mixed vertically resulting in complementary and
            alternating times of use and the ability to share parking areas.
Urban       •   Different types of land use are positioned to create a smooth internal
Medium      transition from lower to higher intensity uses; however, this transition happens
Intensity   over a shorter distance than within the ULI designation.
            •   Larger commercial or office uses (at high end of permitted intensities) should
            locate around arterial and collector streets and rail lines. In general, higher
            intensity uses should be located on higher capacity streets.
            •   Smaller commercial uses are appropriate on or near collector and local streets
            provided that a smooth transition in intensity of uses is maintained.
            •   Land uses and intensities should be fully integrated and mixed. Compatibility
            should be achieved through increased attention to traffic circulation and parking,
            site and building design, and on-site operations.
            •   Different land uses can be close together because design and amenities take
            into account these juxtapositions and make appropriate accommodations.
Urban High  •   Form, design and performance regulations address aesthetic and functional
Intensity   compatibility.   
            •   Limited industrial use areas may be allowed with requirements that they
            mitigate any anticipated negative impacts on adjacent land uses and that they begin
            on or near arterial and collector streets or rail lines.
            •   Land uses should be fully integrated horizontally and mixed vertically,
            resulting in complementary and alternating times of use and the ability to share
            parking areas.
 
      2.   The development proposal is reviewed by planning staff to determine
the impacts of the project on the surrounding existing development. If there is
no surrounding development, the surrounding area should be assumed to be
developed in land use as indicated on the future land use map in the city's
comprehensive plan. Mitigating these impacts requires an understanding of land
use transitions. In the DCA approach, there are three types of land use
transitions:
         a.   Transitions Of Uses Within DCAs: Urban DCAs integrate different
uses, grouping them together on the basis of intensity and impact on the land.
Despite these similarities, these uses do have different characteristics and
raise issues when adjacent.
         b.   Transitions Of Densities/Intensities Of Individual Uses: Just as
DCAs include a range of land uses, they also include a range of densities and
intensities for individual uses. Often these transitions, which seem minor on a
metropolitan scale, can be a major concern on the scale of a block or
neighborhood.
         c.   Transitions Over Time As Land Use Or Character Changes: For
example, some residential areas may gradually convert to offices or businesses
as traffic patterns and economic demands change. Transitional policies should
permit natural and desirable changes to take place while respecting the needs
of preexisting uses.
      3.   This section addresses these types of transitions by clarifying how
to evaluate new development proposals and land-use changes:
         a.   Within DCAs where different uses or intensities may affect each
other.
         b.   On the edge of DCAs where different uses and intensities may
affect a neighboring DCA or developed area under traditional zoning.
   4.   Development impacts typically fall into four categories:
         a.   Density/Intensity: This issue considers the amount of development
on a given site and its relationship to neighboring properties.
         b.   Building Scale, Size, And Site Design: This factor relates to how
the site is developed, again in relationship to its neighbors. For example,
people along a residential street of one(1)- or two(2)-story homes are likely
to consider a proposal for a four(4)-story building incompatible with the
character of their neighborhood. Such a project may cast shadows or alter the
architectural character of the street. Such site design characteristics as the
size and placement of parking lots and amount of hard surfaces may also affect
neighborhood character.
         c.   Traffic: In auto-oriented settings, the amount, timing, and
routing of traffic generated by the use can produce impacts on the surrounding
area.
         d.   Operations: These potential conflicts are caused by operational
characteristics such as noise, light, hours of operations, emissions and odors,
and storm drainage onto surrounding properties.
      5.   The planning staff will identify project compatibility impacts for
the proposed project, both internal and external, grouped into these above four
categories. To aid in the identification of mitigating measures, the following
section identifies examples that can be applied in specific cases. The planning
staff will both identify the project impacts and will work with the developer
and citizens to find solutions and compatibility impacts.
   F.   The compatibility examples in this section show different ways to
resolve the transition impacts between land uses. They are designed to
encourage flexibility and creativity on the part of designers and builders, and
provide assurances to neighbors that project design will address potential
conflicts. They are also treatments that are scaled to people and provide a
level of interest and detail that encourage adjacent pedestrian traffic.
Ultimately, these examples should make most uses compatible when they are
direct neighbors.
   G.   The examples listed below are representations of methods that can make
neighboring developments compatible with each other. These examples are not
part of the landscaping ordinance or other zoning ordinance requirements and
are not binding, but are meant as potential solutions to compatibility issues.
Landscape ordinance and zoning ordinance requirements shall govern distance and
buffering elements for parcels separated by right of way.
      1.   B - Building Size, Scale, And Site Design: When site plan
requirements permit:
         a.   B1: Place building elements with greater mass and height away
from preexisting structures with lower-density or height or use other measures
to create an opaque or other types of separating feature between two (2)
different land uses.
         b.   B2: Minimize the mass of buildings that directly face single-
family structures or use other measures to create an opaque or other types of
separating feature between two (2) different land uses.
         c.   B3: Reduce the visual impact of larger or higher density
buildings that directly face smaller, preexisting buildings by design and
elevation features that do not negatively impact adjacent, lower-density
development.
         d.   B4: At transitions not separated by right of way near lower-
intensity areas, if building bulk cannot be diminished in size based on the
Zoning ordinance, then other measures may substitute for building size
reduction.
         e.   B5: Screen rooftop mechanical equipment from public view.
         f.   B6: At edges with preexisting, lower-intensity residential uses
or densities, use the landscaping ordinance, other zoning ordinance setback
requirements, or other measures as separators of difference land uses.
         g.   B7: Screen drive-through services and integrate screening into
the overall design of buildings and landscaping. Limit the visual impact of
these service functions from adjacent public streets and neighboring
residential properties.
         h.   B8: Adjust yards, landscaping, and building setbacks to reflect
patterns in adjacent, lower-intensity residential areas.
         i.   B9: Use landscape, pedestrian ways, bioswales, and parking design
to divide large parking lots into smaller blocks.
         j.   B10: Locate parking lots outside of the area of the site between
a public street and the building to reflect development patterns of adjacent
preexisting residential development when possible.
         k.   B11: Use landscaped buffers to reduce the impact of parking
facilities on adjacent residential areas.
         l.   B12: Provide most parking in the interior of multi-family
residential projects rather than between buildings and the street, using
residential buildings to define the street edge.
         m.   B13: Use building or business signage that contributes naturally
to the primary façade design. Recommended sign types include but are not
limited to small projecting signs in historic contexts or as part of a
comprehensive project sign plan; wall signs using individual letters, awning
signs, and attached accent or thematic signs using contemporary materials such
as neon or LED's.
         n.   B14: Design lighting of commercial and industrial signage to
minimize impact on adjacent residential areas.
         o.   B15: Preserve environmental resources, including drainageways and
swales, mature trees, wetlands, and prairies and grassland areas when possible.
         p.   B16: Encourage stormwater management features (including
retention and detention basins, swales, surface drainageways, constructed
wetlands, and greenways) to be located, designed, and managed to provide visual
amenities or entryway features, or to provide opportunities for passive
recreation.
         q.   B17: Use best stormwater management practices in parking lots.
Limit the amount of continuous paving with landscaping and/or stormwater
management features.
      2.   D - Density/Intensity:
         a.   D1: Step down residential density (measured by units per acre)
from the higher intensity to the lower intensity area.
         b.   D2: Use landscaped buffers to reduce conflicts between adjacent
land uses of different densities including commercial and industrial land uses
from adjacent residential property. Landscape buffers should increase in
horizontal distance as visual and operational incompatibilities increase.
Vertical features such as ornamental fences and landforms may reduce the
necessary width of buffers.
         c.   D3: Use dense landscaping, evergreen materials, and "green" walls
or fences to make edges of potentially incompatible land uses less visible from
one another. At edges of developments, reflect the patterns of yards and
streetscape displayed by adjacent preexisting development.
         d.   D4: Incorporate streetscape amenities along street frontages.
These amenities may include street trees and street landscaping, green
corridors, exterior windows and storefront details, street furniture, thematic
lighting, medians, and enhanced sidewalks.
         e.   D5: In mixed use projects not separated by right of way, locate
land uses similar to adjacent existing uses at project boundaries or use other
measures to help separate two (2) differing land uses.
         f.   D6: Provide neighborhood convenience features that serve
preexisting development.
      3.   O - Operational Impacts:
         a.   O1: Contain operating effects (including noise and odors) of
high-intensity uses within building walls to the maximum degree possible and at
least within site boundaries.
         b.   O2: Use vertical screening to block visual effects of high-impact
components such as mechanical equipment and service areas.
         c.   O3: Direct light generated by higher intensity uses, including
direct illumination of parking and service areas, signs, and structures, away
from adjacent residential areas and public streets.
      4.   T - Traffic:
         a.   T1: Provide means of access to residential areas that avoids
requiring residents to use arterial streets for short-distance trips.
            (1)   Connections should be contemplated to limit channeling
traffic generated by higher-intensity uses onto local or residential streets
except as part of comprehensively planned, mixed-use projects.
            (2)   Make maximum use of internal cross-easements and shared
access points between or within individual projects when possible.
            (3)   Use traffic calming techniques to reduce speeds between
adjacent properties.
            (4)   Connect buildings on the site with internal streets and
drives, and pedestrian connections and pathways to prevent unnecessary local
traffic in adjacent areas.
         b.   T2: Establish routes that direct traffic from more-intensive uses
away from local streets.
         c.   T3: Use street-design techniques that logically direct traffic
along desired access routes.
         d.   T4: Utilize site designs, building groupings, and site features
that accommodate and encourage the use of transportation alternatives,
including pedestrian, bicycle, and public transportation. Examples of
techniques include continuous walkways from public sidewalks, transit stops,
and multi-use paths and trails to building entrances; use of durable surface
materials to define pedestrian routes and crossings; and visible and convenient
bicycle parking facilities.
         e.   T5: Increase street connectivity to reduce reliance on single
routes for access.
   H.   Table A-1-3H1 recaps these techniques and identifies the transition and
incompatibility issues that they address. Most techniques help address more
than one issue area.
   Table A-1-3H1: Compatibility Techniques and Applications
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6d90355c3edd99c1b60b73fa8fb1172995fa44e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3360.png]
Table A-1-3H1: Compatibility Techniques and Applications (continued)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6d90355c3edd99c1b60b73fa8fb1172995fa44e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3362.png]
   I.   Staff prepares a report for the Planning and Zoning Commission
including an analysis of all three compliance tests, as well as recommended
project revisions to mitigate the development impacts identified. This report
and recommendation is forwarded to the Planning and Zoning Commission for
recommendation to City Council under the same procedures as standard site
plans. (Ord. 35-17, 10-17-2017)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Definitions
12-1-2: Platting; Council Approval Required
12-1-3: Planning Consultation; Factors For Consideration
12-1-4: Variances; Basis For Consideration; Justification
12-1-5: Building Permit Denial For Noncompliance; Exceptions
12-1-6: Public Improvements Prohibited In Nonconforming Subdivisions
12-1-7: Acceptance Of Street Dedications
12-1-8: Changes And Amendments
12-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to
them:
ALLEY: A permanent serviceway providing a secondary means of access to abutting
lands.
ARTERIAL STREETS: Those streets designated in the thoroughfare plan for large
volumes of traffic movement. Certain arterial streets may be classified as
business streets to serve congested business sections, and others as limited
access highways to which entrances and exits are provided only at controlled
intersections, which access is denied to abutting properties.
BLOCK: A unit of property lying between the two (2) nearest intersecting and
intercepting streets or between the nearest intersecting and intercepting
streets or railroad right of way, waterway or other definite barrier.
BLOCK FRONTAGE: Property abutting on one side of a street, and lying between
the two (2) nearest intersecting or intercepting streets or railroad right of
way, waterway or other definite barrier.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: The line nearest the front of, and across a lot,
establishing the minimum open space to be provided between the front line of
buildings and structures and the front lot line.
CIRCLE DRIVE: A residential street of a closed circular shape which has one
entrance open to traffic and intersects or intercepts no street other than the
entrance.
CITY ENGINEER: The director of public works, whose office includes that of city
engineer.
COMMISSION: The city planning and zoning commission.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The complete plan, or any of its parts, for the development
of the city, prepared by the commission and adopted in accordance with state
law.
CUL-DE-SAC, COURT OR DEAD END STREET: A residential street having one end open
to traffic and being permanently terminated by a vehicle turnaround.
FEEDER STREETS: Those designated in the thoroughfare plan as important streets
to facilitate the collection of traffic from residential streets, to permit
circulation within neighborhood areas and to provide convenient ways for
traffic to reach arterial streets.
LOOP: A residential street that begins and ends at two (2) spaced points on the
same street and which intersects or intercepts no other street.
LOT: A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended as a unit for
transfer of ownership or development.
PLACE OR PRIVATE DRIVE: An open, unoccupied, officially designated, privately
owned space, other than a street or alley, permanently reserved for use as the
principal means of access to three (3) or more abutting properties as
specifically authorized under this title. For the purposes of this title, a
place or private drive shall be subject to the same requirements, conditions,
restrictions and connotations as streets. For single-family and two-family
dwellings, no more than three (3) lots or three (3) principal structures may be
served by a private drive.
PLAT: A map or chart indicating the subdivision or resubdivision of land,
intended to be filed for record.
PRIVATE SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM: A sewer owned, controlled and maintained by
property owners, a subdivider or a duly constituted homeowner association.
PRIVATE SEWAGE TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL SYSTEM: All equipment and materials
needed to properly treat and dispose of sewage from a single residential,
commercial or industrial use.
PRIVATE WATER WELL SYSTEM: Any excavation that is drilled, bored, driven or dug
in the earth to provide a source of water for a single residential, commercial
or industrial use.
PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER OUTLET: A public sanitary sewerage system which conveys
sewage to a public wastewater treatment facility.
PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM: A sewer owned, controlled, maintained and subject
to the jurisdiction of the city.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: Those water systems owned, controlled and maintained in
accordance with the franchise between the provider and the city.
QUASI-PUBLIC SEWAGE TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL SYSTEM: All equipment and materials
needed to properly treat and dispose of sewage from more than one residential,
commercial or industrial user, and other than a public sanitary sewer system.
QUASI-PUBLIC WATER WELL SYSTEM: Any excavation that is drilled, bored, driven
or dug in the earth to provide a source of water for more than one residential,
commercial or industrial user, and other than a public water supply.
REPLAT: A subdivision or plat, the site of which has heretofore been platted or
subdivided with lots or parcels of land. It may include all or any part of a
previous subdivision or plat.
RESIDENTIAL STREETS: Those not designated in the thoroughfare plan as arterial
or feeder streets. When they are designed for the primary purpose of providing
access to abutting property on one side only, they are identified as marginal
access streets. Another type of residential street is a cul-de-sac.
STREET: A right of way, dedicated to and accepted for the public use, which
affords the principal means of access to abutting property. A street may be
designated as a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, boulevard, road, avenue, lane,
drive, place or other appropriate name. A street may also be identified
according to type of use.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person engaged in developing or improving a tract of land which
complies with the definition of a "subdivision" as defined herein.
SUBDIVISION: For the purpose of this title, a subdivision of land is either:
   A.    The division of land into three (3) or more tracts, sites or parcels.
   B.    Establishment or dedication of a road, highway, street, alley, place
or private drive through a tract of land regardless of area.
   C.    Resubdivisions or replats of land heretofore divided or platted into
lots, sites or parcels; however, the sale or exchange of small parcels of land
to or between adjoining property owners, where such sale or exchange does not
create additional lots, nor place said lots in nonconformance with the
provisions of the zoning ordinance or this title, shall not be considered as a
subdivision of land.
   D.    The improvement of one or more parcels of land for residential,
commercial or industrial structures or groups of structures involving the
allocation of land for common use by owners, occupants or leaseholders.
THOROUGHFARE PLAN: The part of the comprehensive plan which sets forth the
location, alignment, dimensions, identification and classification of existing
and proposed public streets, highways and other thoroughfares.
25-YEAR STORM: Five and three-tenths inches (5.3") of rain falling in a twenty
four (24) hour period. (2008 Code § 28-1)
12-1-2: PLATTING; COUNCIL APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Filing Of Plat: Every proprietor of any tract or parcel of land which
is being or has been subdivided shall file a plat or replat thereof with the
city council.
   B.   Approval: No plat or replat of a subdivision located within the city or
outside of the city, but within the following boundaries described as follows:
Commencing at the southwest corner of Section 27 of Township 79N-R4E, the point
of beginning; thence west along the centerline of county road F55 to the
centerline of county road Z16; thence northeasterly along said centerline;
thence west along the southerly border of the northwest quarter of Section 28
of said township; thence north along the westerly borders of Section 28 and
Section 21 of said township to a point which is two (2) miles from the point of
beginning; thence along an arc with a centerpoint at the point of beginning and
a radius of two (2) miles to the northwest corner of Section 22 of said
township; thence east along the northerly borders of Section 22, Section 23 and
Section 24, all of said township; thence following an arc with a radius of two
(2) miles and a centerpoint at the northeast corner of Section 26 of said
township to the centerline of 257th Avenue; thence south along said centerline
to centerline of Territorial Road; thence west along said centerline to the
westerly border of Section 29 of Township 78N-R4E; thence south along the
westerly borders of Sections 29 and 32 of said township to the centerline of
Indiana Avenue; thence west along said centerline; thence south along the
easterly border of the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of said
section 32; thence west along the southerly border of the northeast quarter of
the southwest quarter of said Section 32; thence south along the westerly
border of the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter of said Section 32;
thence west along the southerly border of the southeast quarter of the
southwest quarter of said Section 32; thence south along the westerly border of
the northeast quarter of Section 5 of said township to the centerline of Forest
Grove Drive; thence west along said centerline to the westerly property line of
the Davenport Country Club; thence south along said property line to the
centerline of Wellsferry Road; thence south along said centerline to the
centerline of US Highway 67; thence east along said centerline to the
centerline of 181st street; thence south along said centerline and extension
thereof to the Mississippi River; thence west following said river and the
meanders thereof to the eastern limits of the city; thence following the city
limits to the point of beginning.
shall be recorded until it shall have been approved in accordance with the
provisions of this title and the Iowa Code and by a resolution of the council,
said resolution being certified by the mayor and clerk. Said approved plat and
accompanying certificates and documents shall not be considered valid until
they are filed and/or recorded in the county recorder's, auditor's and
assessor's offices.
   C.   Conformance With Statute: The provision of this title shall be
construed to be in conformance with Iowa Code chapter 354. The provision of
Iowa Code section 354.8 are specifically adopted by reference. (2008 Code § 28-
2)
12-1-3: PLANNING CONSULTATION; FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION:
   A.   Consultation Required: In order to make the most of the opportunities
related to the subdivision and to conserve time, effort and expense, the owner
or subdivider should consult with the commission, the city engineer and other
public officials prior to the preparation of the tentative plan of the
subdivision. The comprehensive plan should be reviewed to determine how the
proposed plan will fit into the comprehensive plan.
   B.   Advance Determination Of Requirements: Requirements of the thoroughfare
plan; school and recreational sites; shopping centers, community facilities;
sanitation; water supply, drainage and erosion; and, relationship to other
developments, existing and proposed in the vicinity, should be determined in
advance of the preparation of the subdivision plan. Consultation should also be
held with those familiar with the economic factors affecting the subdivision. A
thorough estimate of the situation will result in sound decisions with respect
to the form, character and extent of the proposed subdivision.
   C.   Suitability Of Land: No land shall be subdivided for residential use
unless adequate access to the land over improved streets or thoroughfares
exists or will be considered by the commission to be unsuitable for each such
use by reason of flooding or improper drainage, objectionable earth and rock
formation, topography or any other feature harmful to the health and safety of
possible residents and the community as a whole. (2008 Code § 28-3)
12-1-4: VARIANCES; BASIS FOR CONSIDERATION; JUSTIFICATION:
   A.   Authorizing Variance: Where the subdivider can show that a provision of
this title would cause unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to and where,
in the opinion of the council, because of topographical or other conditions
peculiar to the site or density, a departure may be made without destroying the
intent of such provision, then the council may authorize a variance. Any
variance recommended by the commission is required to be entered in writing in
the minutes of the commission and the reasoning on which the departure was
justified shall be set forth.
   B.   Zoning Compliance: Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, no
design provision of this title shall necessarily be applied to plats developed
under planned unit zoning, title 11, chapter 9 of this code, or of plats
developed under planned residential overlay districts unless cross referenced
or unless specifically approved as part of a particular planned project. (2008
Code § 28-4)
12-1-5: BUILDING PERMIT DENIAL FOR NONCOMPLIANCE; EXCEPTIONS:
The building inspector shall not issue building, repair, temporary occupancy or
permanent occupancy permits for any structure located on a lot in any
subdivision within the city, the plat of which has not been approved in
accordance with the provisions of this title, except:
   A.   Agricultural building improvements to agricultural property zoned A-
1 agricultural district.
   B.   Residential lots zoned R-1 or R-2 single-family residence district,
where said lots were created prior to July 18, 1957, and the original
boundaries of said lots have not been changed, except by condemnation.
   C.   Upon the findings and determination by the city council that none of
the public benefits or need intended by this title or by Iowa Code chapter 354
would be gained by requiring compliance with the terms of this title.
   D.   The council may authorize the issuance of a building permit for a tract
prior to the council's final approval of the plat thereof where the applicant
provides a restrictive covenant that the applicant will obtain final council
approval of the plat prior to any temporary or final occupancy or use of the
building authorized by the permit. Said covenant shall be in a form suitable
for recording and be approved by the city attorney. (2008 Code § 28-5)
12-1-6: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS PROHIBITED IN NONCONFORMING SUBDIVISIONS:
The council shall not permit public improvements over which it has any control
to be made or any money expended for improvements in any area that has been
subdivided or upon any street that has been platted after July 18, 1957, unless
the subdivision or street has been approved in accordance with the provisions
of this title except as provided for in subsection
12-1-4B of this chapter. (2008 Code § 28-6)
12-1-7: ACCEPTANCE OF STREET DEDICATIONS:
No street in any subdivision that has been approved by the council after July
18, 1967, shall be officially accepted by the council for the improvement and
maintenance thereof until the minimum improvements required by this title have
been made either by the subdivider or by the abutting property owners except as
provided for in subsection
12-1-4B of this chapter. (2008 Code § 28-7)
12-1-8: CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS:
Any regulation or provision of this title may be changed and amended from time
to time by the council. Such changes or amendments shall not become effective
until after study and report by the commission and after a public hearing has
been held by the council, public notice of which shall be given in such
newspaper of general circulation not less than four (4) days but not more than
twenty (20) days prior to the date set for said hearing. Approval of a change
or amendment by council shall be by ordinance. (2008 Code § 28-8)
CHAPTER 2
PRELIMINARY PLATS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Plat Required; Exceptions
12-2-2: Application For Preliminary Approval; Fee
12-2-3: Preliminary Approval; Action By Commission And Council
12-2-4: Time Limit On Preliminary Approval
12-2-1: PLAT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Plat Required: Whenever the owner of any tract or parcel of land within
the city or outside of the city but within the boundaries delineated in
subsection
12-1-2B of this title wishes to make a subdivision of the property, he shall
cause to be prepared a preliminary plat of the subdivision and shall submit
three (3) copies of the preliminary plat along with other information
prescribed in this chapter to the commission for its preliminary study and
action.
   B.   Exceptions: The commission may waive in full or in part the
requirements that a preliminary plat be filed under any of the following
conditions:
      1.   A plat consisting of one lot.
      2.   A plat where the subdivider's entire tract is included within a
final plat filed with the commission.
      3.   A replat. (2008 Code § 28-19)
12-2-2: APPLICATION FOR PRELIMINARY APPROVAL; FEE:
A subdivider desiring preliminary approval of a plat of a subdivision of any
land lying within the city shall submit a written application therefor to the
commission. The application shall be accompanied by six (6) copies of the
following information and plans:
   A.   Location Map: A location map which need not be a special drawing; the
date may be shown on available city maps. The location map shall show:
      1.   The subdivision name and its location.
      2.   Major thoroughfares related to the subdivision.
      3.   Public transportation lines.
      4.   Main shopping center.
      5.   Community or neighborhood stores.
      6.   Elementary and high schools.
      7.   Parks and playgrounds.
      8.   Other community features.
      9.   Title, scale, north point and date.
   B.   Site Map: A site map showing:
      1.   Topographical data in one of the following forms, which shall be
determined by the commission during preliminary consideration of the plan:
         a.   A contour map with contours at intervals of two feet (2'), if the
general slope of the site is less than ten percent (10%), and at vertical
intervals of five feet (5') if the general slope is greater than ten percent
(10%).
         b.   A land inspection sketch showing terrain features, wooded areas,
buildings and other natural or artificial features which would affect the plan
of the subdivision.
      2.   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings, angles, and
references to section, township and range lines or corners.
      3.   Streets and rights of way on or adjoining the site, including
dedicated widths, roadway widths, approximate gradients, types and width of
pavements, curbs, location of streetlights, sidewalks, tree planting and other
pertinent data.
      4.   Easements, including locations, widths and purposes.
      5.   Utilities, including sanitary and storm sewers, other drainage
facilities; water lines; gas mains; electric utilities and other facilities.
The size or capacity of each should be shown and the locations of distance to
each existing utility indicated.
      6.   The zoning of the site and adjoining property.
      7.   Existing or proposed platting of adjacent land within three hundred
feet (300') of the subdivision.
      8.   Other features or conditions which would affect the subdivision
favorably or adversely.
      9.   Title, scale, north point and date.
   C.   Preliminary Plan: A preliminary plan of the subdivision, drawn to scale
of one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50') or one inch equals one hundred feet
(1" = 100'); however, if the resulting drawing would be over thirty six inches
(36") in shortest dimension, a scale as recommended by the city engineer or the
commission may be used. The preliminary plan shall show:
      1.   The proposed name of the subdivision.
      2.   The names and addresses of the owner, the subdivider, and the city
planner, land planning consultant, engineer or surveyor, who prepared the plan.
      3.   A street pattern showing the names, which shall not duplicate names
of other streets in the community except in cases of extensions of existing
streets, and the widths of rights of way of streets, and widths of crosswalks,
easements or alleys.
      4.   The layout of the lots, showing dimensions and numbers. The square
foot area of each lot with irregular sides and are not rectangular; the block
number, if required and distances, radii and chords.
      5.   The parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for
schools, parks, playgrounds, or other public, semipublic or community purposes.
      6.   The building setback or front yard lines.
      7.   The key plan, legend and notes.
      8.   The scale, north point and date.
   D.   Submission Of Maps, Plans: The information called for in subsections B
and C of this section may be submitted as one or two (2) maps or plans.
   E.   Engineering Plans: Preliminary engineering plans showing:
      1.   Profiles, typical cross sections and specifications for proposed
street improvements.
      2.   Profiles, locations and other explanatory data concerning the
installation of storm sewer systems, and public, quasi- public or private
sanitary sewerage and/or water distribution systems.
      3.   All private sanitary sewer systems shall have the prior approval of
the city engineer that said system will be compatible for connection to a
public sanitary sewer outlet when available.
   F.   Protective Covenants: A description of the protective covenants or
private restrictions to be incorporated in the plat of the subdivision.
   G.   Agreements: Information as to any agreements which have been entered
into with the owners of other property within the neighborhood in which the
proposed subdivision is located, as to general plans for the entire
neighborhood. Reference should be made to the comprehensive plan for
suggestions as to the general street pattern and design of the neighborhood.
Wherever possible all of the property owners within the neighborhood should
endeavor to agree upon a general plan for its development, in order that such
subdivision may be designed as an integral part of a well considered overall
plan.
   H.   Fee: The application shall be accompanied by a certified check or money
order payable to the city in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00) and one
dollar ($1.00) for each lot shown on the proposed plat. The purpose of this fee
is to cover the cost of checking and verifying the proposed plat, and such
amount shall be paid over to the clerk and be deposited in the general fund of
the city. No part of this fee shall be returnable to the applicant. (2008 Code
§ 28-20)
12-2-3: PRELIMINARY APPROVAL; ACTION BY COMMISSION AND COUNCIL:
   A.   Time Limits For Action: Within thirty (30) days after the commission
meeting next following submission to the city clerk of an application for
approval of a plat of a subdivision, the commission shall review the
application and shall study the preliminary plat to see if it conforms to the
minimum standards and requirements outlined in this title, and shall approve or
reject the plat within sixty (60) days after submission of the application to
the commission.
   B.   Commission Recommendation; Council Authorization: If the commission
does not act within sixty (60) days after the application for preliminary
approval is submitted to the commission, the preliminary plat shall be deemed
to be approved. Said sixty (60) day time period shall begin when all required
preliminary plats, plans and documents have been received by the city. The
subdivider may agree to an extension of time. The commission shall submit its
recommendations to the council for its action in writing. The approval of the
preliminary plat by the council does not constitute approval of the
subdivision, but is merely an authorization to proceed with the preparation of
the final plat.
   C.   Copies Of Approved Plat Distributed: One copy of the preliminary plat
approved by the council and signed by the mayor and the clerk shall be retained
in the clerk's office and one copy shall be retained in the office of the
commission. One copy shall be authorization for the subdivider to proceed with
the preparation of the final plat. (2008 Code § 28-21)
12-2-4: TIME LIMIT ON PRELIMINARY APPROVAL:
Approval of the preliminary plat shall be effective for a period of eighteen
(18) months unless, upon request of the applicant, the council grants an
extension. The final plat shall be submitted to the clerk and, if it is not
received within eighteen (18) months, all previous actions by the council with
respect to the plat shall be deemed to be null and void. (2008 Code § 28-22)
ARTICLE A. STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS
SECTION:
12-2A-1: Conformance Required
12-2A-2: Comprehensive Plan
12-2A-3: Streets And Alleys
12-2A-4: Blocks
12-2A-5: Lots
12-2A-6: Easements
12-2A-7: Building Setback Lines
12-2A-8: Land For Public Purposes
12-2A-9: Areas Subject To 100-Year Flood Frequency
12-2A-10: Watercourses
12-2A-1: CONFORMANCE REQUIRED:
The preliminary plat of the subdivision shall conform to the principles and
standards of design established in this article, including plats located within
the area referenced in subsection
12-1-2B of this title. (2008 Code § 28-28)
12-2A-2: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The subdivision plan shall conform to the principles and standards which are
generally exhibited in the comprehensive plan. (2008 Code § 28-29)
12-2A-3: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Proposed streets should be adjusted to the contour of the land so as to
produce usable lots and streets of reasonable gradient.
   B.   The street and alley layout shall conform to the thoroughfare plan for
the development of the neighborhood in which the proposed subdivision is
located and shall provide access to all lots and parcels of land within the
subdivision. Where streets cross other streets, jogs shall not be created. The
minimum distance between centerlines of parallel, or approximately parallel,
streets intersecting a cross street should be one hundred twenty feet (120').
   C.   Certain proposed streets, where appropriate, shall be extended to the
boundary line of the tract to be subdivided so as to provide for normal
circulation of traffic within the vicinity.
   D.   Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted portion of a street or
alley adjacent to the proposed subdivision, the remainder of the street or
alley to the prescribed width shall be platted within the proposed subdivision.
   E.   The widths of streets shall conform to the widths specified according
to type of use in the thoroughfare plan, the minimum right of way widths of
residential streets being fifty three feet (53'). Residential streets, which
have a paved width of thirty one feet (31') or more approved by the council,
shall have a minimum right of way width of fifty three feet (53'). Any
exceptions will need the approval from the planning and zoning commission and
the city council. Cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum right of way radius of
fifty-five and one-half feet (55 1/2') and shall be paved a minimum of forty-
five feet (45') measured back of curb to center point of the turnaround.
In areas zoned exclusively for single-family residences, cul-de-sacs not more
than six hundred feet (600') in length and loop streets or circle drives not
more than one thousand feet (1,000') in length may be paved a minimum of thirty
one feet (31') in width, measured back of curb to back of curb, if there is
adequate off street parking and the council approves. All measurements shall be
made along the centerline of the cul-de-sac, circle drive or loop street right
of way. Length shall be determined by measuring from the centerline of an
intersecting street to the centerline of the intersecting street for a loop
street or circle drive, or from the centerline of the intersecting street to
the center of the cul-de-sac.
   F.   Alleys shall be discouraged in Residential Districts, but should be
included in commercial and industrial areas where needed for loading, unloading
or access purposes. Where platted, alley right-of-way widths shall be at least
twenty feet (20') in a Residential District and twenty four feet (24') in or
adjacent to a Commercial or Industrial District.
   G.   The centerlines of streets should intersect as nearly at right angles
as is possible.
   H.   Where an alley intersects a street property line, corners shall be
rounded by arcs of at least twenty feet (20') radii or by chords of such arcs.
   I.   At intersections of streets, the property line corners shall be rounded
by arcs with radii of not less than fifteen feet (15'), or by chords of such
arcs.
   J.   If the smaller angle of intersection of two (2) streets is less than
sixty degrees (60°), the radius of the arc at the intersection of property
lines shall be increased as deemed advisable by the commission.
   K.   Intersections of more than two (2) streets at one point shall be
avoided.
   L.   Whenever the proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to a highway
designated as a controlled access highway by the appropriate highway
authorities, provisions shall be made for a marginal access street, a parallel
street at a distance acceptable for the appropriate use of the land between the
highway and such parallel street, or the limiting of access, where possible and
practical, to said street by restrictive covenant. Whenever the proposed
subdivision contains or is adjacent to a street designated as a secondary
street or as a primary street in the thoroughfare plan, provisions may be made
for limiting access, where possible and practical, to said street by
restrictive covenant.
   M.   The minimum length of vertical curves, expressed in feet, to permit
adequate stopping sight distance on all streets shall be established along the
centerline of such streets as follows:
      1.   On arterial streets: Seventy six (76) multiplied by the percent
algebraic difference of grades.
      2.   Feeder or collector streets: Forty (40) multiplied by the percent
algebraic difference of grades.
      3.   Residential streets: Twenty nine (29) multiplied by the percent
algebraic difference of grades.
   N.   Curvature measured along the centerline shall have a minimum radius as
follows:
      1.   Limited access highways: One thousand eight hundred forty six feet
(1,846').
      2.   Arterial streets: Nine hundred thirty feet (930').
      3.   Parkways: Seven hundred ten feet (710').
      4.   Feeder streets: Five hundred twenty five feet (525').
      5.   Residential streets: Two hundred fifty feet (250').
   O.   An option is open to use superelevation with reduced curve radii on
curves, subject to the review and approval of the city engineer.
   P.   Between reversed curves on arterial streets, a tangent of not less than
two hundred feet (200') shall be provided and on feeder and residential
streets, such a tangent shall be not less than one hundred feet (100').
   Q.   Maximum or minimum grades.
      1.   Arterial streets, not greater than four percent (4%).
      2.   Feeder and residential streets, not greater than eight percent (8%).
      3.   The minimum grade of any street gutter and alley inverted crown
shall not be less than eight-tenths percent (0.8%), unless a lesser grade is
specifically authorized in writing by the city engineer. (2008 Code § 28-30;
amd. Ord. 08-19, 4-16-2019; Ord. 16-21, 9-7-2021)
12-2A-4: BLOCKS:
   A.   Blocks shall not exceed one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') in
length.
   B.   Blocks shall be of sufficient width to permit two (2) tiers of lots of
appropriate depth, except where an interior street parallels a limited access
highway or arterial street. (2008 Code § 28-31)
12-2A-5: LOTS:
   A.   All lots shall abut on a street or place.
   B.   Side lines of lots shall be at approximately right angles to straight
streets and on radial lines on curved streets. Some variation from this rule is
permissible, but pointed or very irregular lots should be avoided.
   C.   Double frontage lots should not be platted, except that where desired
along arterial, limited access highways or streets, lots may face on an
interior street and back on such thoroughfares. In that event, a planting strip
is used for a screen, at least twenty feet (20') in width shall be provided
along the back of the lot.
   D.   Prior to the approval of a preliminary plat of an area where a public
sanitary sewer outlet and/or a public water supply are not available, the
commission shall receive certification from a professional engineer, registered
in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Iowa Code, that lot size,
soil conditions, area and topography within said subdivision are suitable for
the installation of private or quasi-public sewage treatment and disposal
systems and/or water well systems in accordance with the applicable state of
Iowa and Scott County board of health laws, rules and regulations governing the
installation of such systems. Said certification shall provide proof that the
Scott County board of health has reviewed and approved the methods and
determination of the certification. Where a public sanitary sewer outlet and a
public water supply are available to the entire subdivision, the widths and
areas of lots shall be not less than provided in the zoning regulations of the
city for the district in which the subdivision is located; however, in no case
shall the width of the lot at the building setback line be less than fifty feet
(50'), and the area of the lot be less than six thousand (6,000) square feet.
Multi-family uses and buildings must be served by public sanitary sewer
outlets.
   E.   The depth to width ratio of the usable area of a lot shall be at a
maximum of 3.0:1.0.
   F.   Corner residential lots shall be wider than normal in order to permit
appropriate setbacks from both streets.
   G.   Wherever possible, unit shopping centers, based upon sound development
standards, should be designed in contrast to the platting of lots for
unrestricted commercial use.
   H.   No strip of land shall be reserved by the subdivider unless the tract
is of sufficient size and shape to be of some practical use or service as
determined by the commission and council.
   I.   The land contour of all lots shall contain a building site with an
elevation of sufficient height to permit construction of the lowest habitable
floor of a building one foot (1') above a 100-year flood level as set forth in
title 13, chapter 1 of this code. (2008 Code § 28-32)
12-2A-6: EASEMENTS:
Where alleys are not provided, easements for utilities shall be provided. The
easements shall have minimum widths of twelve feet (12'), and where located
along lot lines, one-half (1/2) the width shall be taken from each lot. Before
determining the location of easements, the plan shall be approved by the local
public utility companies to assure the proper placement of the easements for
the installation of such services. Easements for sewers shall have a minimum
width of fifteen feet (15'). (2008 Code § 28-33)
12-2A-7: BUILDING SETBACK LINES:
Building setback lines shall be established as required by the zoning ordinance
of the city, title 11 of this code. (2008 Code § 28-34)
12-2A-8: LAND FOR PUBLIC PURPOSES:
Where sites for parks, schools, playgrounds or other public uses are located
within the subdivision area as shown on the comprehensive plan, or where such
sites appear to be desirable, the commission may request their dedication for
such purposes, or their reservation for a period of one year following the date
of the approval of the plat. In the event a governmental agency concerned
passes a resolution expressing its intent to acquire the land so reserved, the
reservation period shall be extended for an additional six (6) months. (2008
Code § 28-35)
12-2A-9: AREAS SUBJECT TO 100-YEAR FLOOD FREQUENCY:
All subdivisions located or partially located below the 100-year flood
frequency elevation as noted in title 13, chapter 1 of this code which contain
three (3) acres or two (2) lots, whichever is less, shall note the location of
the 100-year flood frequency area and the elevation. (2008 Code § 28-36)
12-2A-10: WATERCOURSES:
Flood carrying capacity within an altered or relocated portion of any
watercourse shall be maintained. The applicant will notify adjacent communities
and the state coordinating office prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse. (2008 Code § 28-37)
CHAPTER 3
FINAL PLATS
SECTION:
12-3-1: Requirements
12-3-2: Documents Submitted With Final Plat
12-3-3: Referral To Commission; Action By Commission And Council
12-3-4: Record Plat
12-3-5: Replats; Notification Of Adjacent Property Owners
12-3-1: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Extent Of Plat: The final plat may include all or only a part of the
approved preliminary plat.
   B.   Format: The original drawing of the final plat of the subdivision shall
be drawn to a scale of one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50'); however, if the
resulting drawing would be over thirty six inches (36") in shortest dimension,
a scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') may be used. Three (3)
black or blue line prints shall be submitted with the original final plat.
   C.   Engineering Plans: Detailed engineering drawings and construction
plans, prepared by and certified to by a registered professional engineer, in
accordance with the provisions of the latest revision of the city's standard
specifications and standard drawings for construction and including the
standards of improvements contained in articles A and B of this chapter, shall
be submitted to the city for review. Said engineering plans shall be approved
by the director of public works or the director's designee. Such approval must
be obtained prior to construction of the improvement.
   D.   Data On Plat: The following basic information shall be shown on the
final plat:
      1.   Accurate exterior boundary lines of the subdivision and the lots,
with dimensions and bearings which provide a survey of the same closing with an
error of not more than one foot (1') in ten thousand feet (10,000') for the
subdivision and one foot (1') in five thousand feet (5,000') for any lot.
      2.   Accurate distances and bearings from the subdivision to some corner
of the congressional division of which the addition is a part. Reference
corners shall be accurately described on the plat.
      3.   Accurate distances and bearings of all existing, recorded or
proposed streets and alleys intersecting or within the boundaries of the
subdivision.
      4.   Identification of all adjoining properties by subdivision name or
name of property owner.
      5.   Signature blocks for the approval signature of the mayor and city
clerk, the chairman of the planning and zoning commission and the utility
companies.
      6.   Street names.
      7.   Complete curve notes for all curves in the subdivision including
radius, central angle, tangent, length of curve, length of chord and chord
bearing information.
      8.   Street and alley lines with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths of feet, with angles to street, alley and lot lines.
      9.   Lot numbers, dimensions and areas (in acres).
      10.   The purpose of, accurate location of, and any limitation on
easements for utilities including streetlights.
      11.   The application shall be accompanied by a certified check or money
order payable to the city in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      12.   Building setback lines and dimensions.
      13.   Location, type, material and size of all monuments and markers.
      14.   The subdivision name and number designated in bold letters at the
top of each plat.
      15.   The name and address of the owner and subdivider.
      16.   The north point, scale (illustrated by a bar scale), date and
acreage of the tract.
      17.   Certification by a registered land surveyor that the plat is a true
and correct representation of the lands surveyed, said certification being
accompanied by the surveyor's signature, seal and registration number. (2008
Code § 28-46)
12-3-2: DOCUMENTS SUBMITTED WITH FINAL PLAT:
When the final plat is submitted to the Council, it shall be accompanied by the
following instruments, which will be current within thirty (30) days prior to
the date of the Council's approval:
   A.   An attorney's legal opinion placing the fee title, free from unbonded
encumbrances, in the owner. The attorney shall also identify the name or holder
of any mortgage lien, judgment, or other encumbrances on the land being
platted. No dedication of public way shall be accepted by the City until the
person identified in the attorney's certificate to the City has either agreed
to release any encumbrance on the land to be dedicated, or the owner submits an
irrevocable bond payable to the City in an amount equal to twice the value of
the encumbrance, to guarantee the release of the encumbrance at the time the
City chooses. Utility easements shall not be construed to be encumbrances for
the purpose of this section. In the event the subdivision plat contains no land
for public use other than utility easements, the Treasurer's certificate listed
in this section need not include a statement on special assessments.
   B.   A statement from the mortgage holders and lienholders, if any, that the
plat is prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their desires,
signed and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the acknowledgment
of deeds. In lieu of such consent, the owner may provide an affidavit and bond
as provided in Iowa Code section 354.12. When a mortgage or lien holder
consents to the subdivision, a release of mortgage or lien shall be recorded
for any areas conveyed to the City or dedicated to the public.
   C.   A certificate by the owner of the property and spouse, if any, that the
subdivision as it appears on the plat is with free consent, and is in accord
with the desire of said owner and spouse, dedicating the streets and other
public ways shown on the plat, agreeing to abide by the setbacks required in
this Code at the time any building permit is obtained, declaring the limitation
on easements and providing for any restrictive covenants needed or requested.
   D.   A certificate from the County Treasurer that the land is free from
certified taxes and that the certified special assessments are secured by a
bond in compliance with Iowa Code section 354.12.
   E.   One of the following:
      1.   A certificate bearing the approval of the City Engineer, stating
that all improvements and installations to the subdivision required by this
chapter have been made or installed in accordance with specifications; or (2008
Code § 28-47)
      2.   a.   A performance bond or bonds with the City, which will ensure to
the City that the subdivision improvements will be completed by the subdivider
within two (2) years after Council acceptance of the plat and a maintenance
bond or bonds, from all the subdivider's contractors, with the City which will
ensure to the City that said improvements will be maintained in good and
suitable condition for a period of four (4) years after Council acceptance of
the construction. (Ord. 08-18, 4-17-2018)
         b.   The term "maintain" or "maintained" shall be defined as
pertaining to the repairs which shall become necessary because of defective or
faulty workmanship or materials in the improvement completed by the subdivider
and/or his contractors.
         c.   The form and type of a performance bond or bonds shall be
approved by the City Attorney and the Finance Committee of the City, and the
amount of any bond shall not be less than the estimated cost of the
improvements, and the amount of any performance or maintenance bond shall be
approved by the City Engineer. If the improvements are not completed or
maintained within the specified times, the Council may use the bond or bonds or
any necessary portion thereof to complete or maintain the improvements.
      3.   A waiver to the Council to provide the subdivision improvements
required with the final plat and to assess the cost thereof against the
subdivided property in accordance with the law regarding special assessments.
However, the subdivider or property owners shall be responsible for any
difference between the cost of the improvements and the amount that can be
legally assessed by the City against the subdivided property, and they shall
furnish the necessary waivers to permit the assessment of the entire cost of
the improvement. Notwithstanding the assessment waiver, the subdivider or
property owner may elect to construct the subdivision improvements, in which
case all their contractors shall file with the City a maintenance bond as set
forth in subsection E2 of this section.
   F.   A certificate from a registered land surveyor, including an accurate
metes and bounds description of the addition.
   G.   A resolution and certificate for approval by the Council.
   H.   The application shall be accompanied by a certified check or money
order payable to the City in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   I.   The application shall be made with an appropriate application form.
(2008 Code § 28-47)
12-3-3: REFERRAL TO COMMISSION; ACTION BY COMMISSION AND COUNCIL:
Upon the receipt of the final plat by the Clerk, it shall be referred to the
commission for its review and recommendations. Said recommendation shall then
be referred, in writing, to the Council. If the commission does not approve the
final plat of the subdivision, the Council may approve the plat only by a
three-fourths (3/4) vote of the entire membership of the Council. Council
approval of the final plat shall be by resolution. The Council shall direct the
Mayor and the Clerk to certify the resolution and affix it to the final plat.
If the Council rejects the final plat, it shall state, in the Council minutes,
wherein said final plat is objectionable. The Council shall act on a final plat
within sixty (60) days of the filing of all required final plat, engineering
plans and legal instruments with the Clerk. (2008 Code § 28-48)
12-3-4: RECORD PLAT:
   A.   Recording Of Plat; Fee: Within sixty (60) days following the approval
of the final plat by the City Council, the applicant shall record the final
plat with the Scott County Recorder. A filing fee of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) will be required for any final plat that is not recorded within the
sixty (60) day requirement that needs reapproval by the City Council. (2008
Code § 28-49)
   B.   Filing Copy: Within sixty (60) days following the approval of a final
plat by the Council, applicant shall file with the City two (2) full sized (to
scale) paper copies of the recorded final plat and associated platting
documents. The applicant must also submit a digital version of the signed final
plat in an approved software format which is reproducible to original (to
scale) size and/or a full sized (to scale) reproducible mylar copy as City
staff deems necessary. (Ord. 12-16, 5-17-2016)
12-3-5: REPLATS; NOTIFICATION OF ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS:
Whenever an existing platted lot or lots on ground zoned residential is
replatted into two (2) or more lots, the property owner shall post a minimum of
two (2) signs at least ten (10) days before the Planning and Zoning Commission
meeting date in such manner as directed by the Director of Community
Development. In those cases where the Director shall determine that by virtue
of parcel size or configuration, two (2) signs would provide the public with
insufficient notice of the proposal, additional signs may be directed to be
posted. Additionally, the Community Development Department shall provide mailed
notice to each person owning property adjacent to or within two hundred feet
(200') of the ground subject to replat, such notice to be mailed at least five
(5) days prior to the meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission wherein
such application for replat will be considered. The cost of any signs and
mailed notice shall be charged in addition to the application fee, pursuant to
guidelines established by resolution of Council. If the signs are not posted as
required herein, the Planning and Zoning Commission may delay action on the
plat until the requirement is met. The signs shall be removed within seventy
two (72) hours after the Planning and Zoning Commission meeting. (2008 Code §
28-51)
ARTICLE A. STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS GENERALLY
SECTION:
12-3A-1: Conformance Required
12-3A-2: Installation Of Improvement Facilities
12-3A-3: Standard Specifications Adopted
12-3A-4: Construction Of Improvements; Inspection
12-3A-5: Improvement Credit; Procedure Established
12-3A-6: Monuments And Markers
12-3A-7: Sewers And Sewage Disposal
12-3A-8: Water
12-3A-9: Storm Drainage
12-3A-10: Curbs And Gutters
12-3A-11: Sidewalks
12-3A-12: Utilities Generally
12-3A-1: CONFORMANCE REQUIRED:
The final plat of a subdivision shall conform to the standards of improvements
established in this chapter. (2008 Code § 28-54)
12-3A-2: INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENT FACILITIES:
   A.   Definition: In this chapter, the phrase "the subdivider shall provide"
means that the subdivider shall install the facility referred to or, whenever a
private sewage treatment and disposal system and/or private water well system
is to be provided on a lot or parcel, that the subdivider shall require, as a
condition of the sale of each lot or parcel in the subdivision, that the
facilities referred to in this chapter shall be installed by the developer of
the lot in accordance with these regulations.
   B.   Sewer And Water Systems: All public, quasi-public or private sanitary
sewer systems shall be installed in accordance with these regulations and prior
to the issuance of a building permit. Water systems shall be installed in
accordance with these regulations and prior to the occupancy of the building.
   C.   Other Facilities: All other facilities referred to must be installed in
accordance with these regulations prior to occupancy of the buildings. (Ord.
08-19, 4-16-2019)
12-3A-3: STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS ADOPTED:
The type of materials and construction for improvements within subdivisions
shall be in accordance with the City's standard specifications and standard
drawings for construction in effect at the time of construction. Said
specifications and standard drawings shall be revised from time to time as the
City deems appropriate and become effective immediately upon approval by the
City Council. Any project that has been received by the City for approval
through the Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council prior to the
adoption of the revisions shall be exempt from the revisions. (Ord. 08-18, 4-
17-2018)
12-3A-4: CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS; INSPECTION:
   A.   Construction, Supervision And Inspection: The public improvements,
place or private drive improvements, and private sanitary sewer system
improvements required in all subdivisions shall be designed, constructed and
inspected in accordance with this section, and with the City's standard
specifications and standard drawings in effect at the time of construction or
the newly approved standard drawings as stated in section
12-3A-3 of this article.
      1.   Construction, supervision, inspection and testing of improvements
mentioned in this subsection A shall all be performed under the direction of
the City Engineer or by a qualified engineer or inspection and testing
laboratory as selected by the City Engineer. The City Engineer may consult with
the Soil Conservation District on erosion control.
      2.   All public storm sewer, sanitary sewer and private sanitary sewer
improvements must be televised by the Public Works Department prior to
acceptance. Fees for this service shall be set from time to time by City
Council resolution and will be billed to the subdivider or property in
accordance with subsection A4 of this section.
      3.   The inspecting agency shall submit daily reports to the City
Engineer, on forms approved or furnished by him, certifying compliance of all
construction performed with the City's standard plans and specifications.
      4.   The City shall pay the expenses of inspections and televising, and
the subdivider or property owner shall reimburse the City for the expenses
within sixty (60) days after the final bill therefor is submitted; payment
shall be made to the City Treasurer. Interest charges, of the maximum allowed
by law, will be levied on all unpaid balances after the sixty (60) day time
period has elapsed. (Ord. 08-19, 4-16-2019)
12-3A-5: IMPROVEMENT CREDIT; PROCEDURE ESTABLISHED:
Upon the installation of improvements required by this chapter, which may
provide benefits to other properties in the vicinity of the land to be
subdivided, which cross or adjoin other properties and can be used by such
properties, the subdivider and the City may, by contract, agree that upon the
connection or use of the installations made by the subdivider or others, within
a period of ten (10) years following their installation, the new user or users
shall pay to the City a fee in an amount agreed upon by the subdivider and the
City, the amount of such fee to be credited to and paid to the subdivider.
(2008 Code § 28-58)
12-3A-6: MONUMENTS AND MARKERS:
   A.   The subdivider shall provide monuments and markers placed so that the
cap shall coincide exactly with the intersection of lines to be marked, and
they shall be set so that the top of the monument or marker is level with the
surface of the surrounding ground.
   B.   Monuments shall be set:
      1.   At the intersection of all lines forming angles in the boundary of
the subdivision.
      2.   At every point of intersection of the outer boundary of the
subdivision with an existing or created street, railroad or other right-of-way
line.
   C.   Markers shall be set:
      1.   At the beginning and ending of all curves along street property
lines.
      2.   At all points where lot lines intersect curves along street property
lines.
      3.   At all angles in property lines of lots.
      4.   At all other lot corners not established by a monument.
   D.   Monuments shall be of concrete or stone, with a minimum diameter of six
inches (6") and a minimum length of three feet (3'). Markers shall consist of
iron pipes or iron or steel bars at least three feet (3') long, and not less
than five- eighths inch (5/8") in diameter. Both monuments and markers shall
have a cap affixed to the top of same that is capable of being detected by
magnetic or electronic equipment and is made of a reasonably inert material,
bearing an embossed or stencil cut marking of the Iowa registration number of
the registered land surveyor that prepared the survey.
   E.   Where any point requiring a monument or marker has been previously
established by an existing monument or marker, the existence and accuracy of
same shall be confirmed by the registered land survey surveyor and properly
shown and described on the final plat for use in lieu of setting a new monument
or marker. (2008 Code § 28-59)
12-3A-7: SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Subdivider To Provide: The subdivider shall provide the subdivision
with a complete public sanitary sewer system adjacent to each lot in his
subdivision, which shall connect with a public sanitary sewer outlet.
   B.   Private Sanitary Sewer System: In areas where a public sanitary sewer
outlet is not available, the subdivider shall provide a private sanitary sewer
system adjacent to each lot in his subdivision and a private or quasi-public
sewage treatment and disposal system to serve each lot.
      1.   Maintenance and repair of private sanitary sewer systems constructed
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be the responsibility
of the subdivider or a duly constituted homeowners' association until such time
as it is connected to a public sanitary sewer outlet. At the time of
connection, said private sanitary sewer system shall be dedicated to the city
and become a public sanitary sewer system. Said private or quasi-public sewage
treatment disposal systems shall not be dedicated to or maintained by the city
and shall remain the responsibility of the property owner, subdivider or duly
constituted homeowners' association to properly abandon in accordance with the
applicable standard state of Iowa and Scott County board of health laws, rules
and regulations.
      2.   Persons making connection to said private sanitary sewer system
mentioned in this chapter shall pay all sewer connection fees and conform with
all requirements of this code dealing with public sanitary sewer connections.
   C.   Temporary Public Lift Station: The option is available for the
subdivider to use a temporary public lift station and force main in conjunction
with a public sanitary sewer system to connect to a public sanitary sewer
outlet if it can be established, to the satisfaction of the city engineer, that
both the existing and proposed sewerage systems are adequate and feasible
through the engineering considerations of construction, maintenance and
operation.
   D.   Easement: Sanitary sewers, whether part of a public or private system,
shall be laid in an easement and located approximately seven and one-half feet
(7.5') inside the property line. Sewers shall be located on the east and south
sides of the street, or the opposite side of the street from water mains, if
already in place.
   E.   Preparation And Filing Of Plans: The plans for the installation of
either a public or private sanitary sewer system shall be prepared by the
subdivider and approved by the city engineer and the Iowa department of water,
air and waste management. Upon completion of the sanitary sewer system
installation, the plans for same, as built, shall be filed with the city
engineer. (2008 Code § 28-60)
12-3A-8: WATER:
   A.   Subdivider To Provide: The subdivider shall provide the subdivision
with a complete public water supply system in accordance with the franchise, as
it existed or may exist, between the city and the Iowa American Water Company.
When a public water supply is not available, the subdivider shall provide a
private or quasi-public water well system on or to each lot in the subdivision.
   B.   Easement: Water mains provided by a private enterprise shall be laid in
an easement and located approximately seven and one-half feet (7.5') inside the
property line. Water mains shall be located on the west and north sides of the
street, or the opposite side of the street from sanitary sewer lines, if
already in place.
   C.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants in a residential area shall not exceed a
spacing of four hundred feet (400'). Fire hydrants should be installed at
intersections of streets where possible. There shall be a minimum of one fire
hydrant in a cul-de-sac. If two (2) or more hydrants are required due to the
length of the cul-de-sac or the fire flow requirements as required by the fire
code, one shall be placed at the end of the cul-de-sac and one shall be placed
near the entrance of the cul-de-sac. Any other required hydrants, if any, shall
be evenly spaced between the two (2) aforementioned hydrants. (2008 Code § 28-
61)
12-3A-9: STORM DRAINAGE:
   A.   Subdivider To Provide: The subdivider shall provide the subdivision
with an adequate stormwater sewer system when the evidence available to the
commission and council indicates that the natural surface drainage is
inadequate.
      1.   Storm sewers shall, if practicable, be placed in either parkway
between the curb and water main or sanitary sewer main, or in an easement.
      2.   Storm drainage easements shall be provided where necessary.
      3.   A separate sump pump collection system shall be constructed as shown
in the City's standard drawings.
      4.   No person shall place or allow to be placed an accumulation of
materials, including, but not limited to, wood, concrete, stone, brush, grass
clippings, or other debris that might block the flow of stormwater in a storm
drainage easement or could reasonably be expected to be carried downstream by
such stormwater to the detriment of either upstream or downstream property
owners.
   B.   Preparation And Filing Of Plan: The plans for the installation of a
storm drainage system shall be prepared by the subdivider and approved by the
city engineer. Upon the completion of said storm sewer system, the plans for
same, as built, shall be filed with the city engineer. (2008 Code § 28-62; amd.
Ord. 16-21, 9-7-2021)
12-3A-10: CURBS AND GUTTERS:
Curbs and gutters shall be constructed by the subdivider on both sides of all
streets; however, the requirements of curbs and gutters may be waived at the
discretion of the council. (2008 Code § 28-63)
12-3A-11: SIDEWALKS:
The subdivider shall provide sidewalks on both sides of all streets, places and
cul-de-sacs. (2008 Code § 28-64)
12-3A-12: UTILITIES GENERALLY:
   A.   Underground Placement: All gas, water, electrical, cable television,
telephone or communication service or the use or maintenance of any associated
structure such as poles, towers, supports, wires, conductors, guys, stubs,
platforms, crossarms, braces, transformers, insulators, cutouts, switches,
communication circuits, appliances, attachments, and appurtenances provided as
new installations to any area subdivided for residential and commercial
purposes shall be placed underground except those services and associated
structures listed hereunder as exceptions. The aforementioned services and
associated structures provided as new installations to any area subdivided for
industrial purposes shall be placed underground within any portion of the
subdivision lying within one hundred feet (100') of an undeveloped
residentially zoned area, or within one hundred feet (100') of a residentially
zoned and developed area that is already served by said underground services,
except those services and associated structures listed hereunder as exceptions.
The subdivider shall be responsible for making arrangements with the
appropriate utility company(ies) for the proper installation of said
underground services in accordance with the utility company's rules and
regulations.
   B.   Instances Of Exception, Conditions: The following instances, with the
conditions listed for each of them, may be considered exceptions to this
section:
      1.   Any of the aforementioned services which is considered by the
utility company providing said service to be unfeasible in undergrounding due
to inordinately high and unjustified cost, high voltage or topographic or soil
conditions, can be provided overhead, upon approval by the city council.
      2.   In the instance that a subdivision is developed adjacent to or
abutting an existing development, and in such a way as the new development
would normally share the primary feeder lines that have already been installed,
and when those feeder lines have been installed overhead, the new development
can use those feeder lines which do exist, provided that the service lines to
the structures in the new development are installed underground, and provided
that all additional necessary feeders are installed underground or in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
      3.   Developments having preliminary plat approval prior to July 18,
1972, will not be subject to the requirements of this section.
   C.   Specific Facilities Excepted: The following specific facilities shall
not be subject to the requirements of this section:
      1.   Poles used exclusively for street lighting (not including wiring).
      2.   When authorized by the city council, poles and overhead lines and
associated overhead structures crossing or entering any portion of a district
from which overhead wires have been prohibited and originating in an area in
which these structures are allowed.
      3.   Overhead lines attached to the exterior of a building by means of a
bracket or similar device and extending from one location on the building to
another location on the same building.
      4.   Radio antenna and associated structures and equipment used for
furnishing communications service.
      5.   Service terminals and necessary pad mounted electric equipment
installed aboveground used to distribute telephone, cable television, gas,
water, communication and electric service in underground systems.
      6.   Transmission lines carrying a voltage of sixty nine thousand
(69,000) volts or above.
   D.   Electrical Distribution Circuits: All underground electric distribution
circuits installed by the utility company for the purpose of distributing
electrical current within the City shall be installed in accordance with the
safety rules for the installation and maintenance of electric supply and
communications lines, U.S. Department of Commerce, National Bureau of
Standards. (2008 Code § 28-65)
   E.   Street Lighting: The subdivider shall provide street lighting along all
streets, places and cul-de-sacs.
      1.   Locations of all street lighting shall be determined by the City
Engineer.
      2.   All street lighting shall utilize light emitting diode (LED) bulbs.
The use of high pressure sodium (HPS) bulbs will not be allowed. (Ord. 08-19,
4-16-2019)
ARTICLE B. STREET IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
12-3B-1: Conformance Required
12-3B-2: Public Improvements Generally
12-3B-3: Paving Requirements By Street Classification
12-3B-4: Minimum Pavement Width And Thickness; Costs
12-3B-1: CONFORMANCE REQUIRED:
Street improvements shall be made in accordance with the provisions of this
article after the approval of a final plat or prior to said approval if
provided for in accordance with the provisions of sections
12-3-1 through
12-3-5 of this chapter. Place or private drive improvements shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Multi-family, shopping center,
and industrial areas may have common vehicular use areas (accessways, service
areas, driveways, loading areas, and parking spaces) if the parcel containing
the vehicular use areas is under one ownership. If the parcel has more than one
owner or if the owners are adjacent to one another, agreements for cross
easements and maintenance of vehicular use areas are required and must be
provided at the time of final platting. The city will not maintain or repair
vehicular use areas that are privately owned, even when such areas are
generally available for public use. (2008 Code § 28-70)
12-3B-2: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS GENERALLY:
   A.   Construction Standards: All public or private improvements, including,
but not limited to, public and private sanitary sewers, storm sewers, streets,
alleys, and private drives or places, shall be constructed as set forth on the
approved final subdivision plans and in accord with the city's standard
specifications and drawings for construction in effect at the time of
construction, and shall further conform to the provisions of this article.
   B.   Platted Rights Of Way: All platted rights of way which are not opened
to traffic shall, prior to opening, follow the following procedure:
      1.   Council, by resolution, shall authorize the opening of the right of
way.
      2.   Improvements necessary for public use shall be in place within a
date certain as established in the resolution authorizing the opening of the
right of way.
      3.   Improvement shall be constructed according to the standards as
established in subsection A of this section. (2008 Code § 28-71)
12-3B-3: PAVING REQUIREMENTS BY STREET CLASSIFICATION:
The general street, private drive, and alley classifications with their
respective minimum dimensions and characteristics shall be as follows:
   A.   Arterial Streets Including Major Arterials And Primary Thoroughfares:
      1.   Width Of Pavement: Forty nine feet (49'), measured back of curb to
back of curb.
      2.   Surfacing: Portland cement concrete paving. Asphalt cement concrete
paving shall not be used.
      3.   Pavement Thickness: Nine inches (9") of portland cement concrete
paving. Said requirement may be reduced where the city engineer has determined
that design analysis justifies less thickness.
   B.   Feeder Streets, Including Secondary Thoroughfares, Collector Streets
And Minor Arterials:
      1.   Width Of Pavement: Thirty eight feet (38'), measured back of curb to
back of curb.
      2.   Surfacing: Portland cement concrete paving. Asphalt cement concrete
paving shall not be used.
      3.   Pavement Thickness: Seven inches (7") of portland cement concrete
unless in a commercial or industrial district, in which case the thickness
shall be increased to nine inches (9") of portland cement concrete. If, in the
determination of the city engineer, a street near a Commercial or Industrial
District could be reasonably expected to bear commercial or industrial traffic
as a result of its proximity to that Commercial or Industrial District, its
pavement thickness of portland cement concrete shall be increased to nine
inches (9") of portland cement concrete. Said requirement in or near a
Commercial or Industrial District may be reduced to seven inches (7") of
portland cement concrete where the City Engineer has determined that design
analysis justifies less thickness. (2008 Code § 28-72)
   C.   Residential Streets, Including Border Parkways, Private Drives And
Local Commercial Or Industrial Streets:
      1.   Width Of Pavement: Thirty one feet (31'), measured back of curb to
back of curb, except as provided in subsection 12-2A-3E of this title. Cul-de-
sac turnarounds shall have a paving radius of forty five feet (45'), measured
back of curb to center point of the turnaround. (Ord. 08-19, 4-16-2019)
      2.   Surfacing:
         a.   Portland cement concrete paving.
         b.   Asphalt cement concrete paving with portland cement concrete curb
and gutter two and one-half feet (21/2') wide and eight inch (8") thick apron.
Asphalt cement concrete paving shall not be used in a Commercial or Industrial
District. If, in the determination of the City Engineer, a street near a
Commercial or Industrial District could be reasonably expected to bear
commercial or industrial traffic as a result of its proximity to that
Commercial or Industrial District, its surfacing shall not be asphalt cement
concrete paving.
      3.   Pavement Thickness:
         a.   Six inches (6") of portland cement concrete unless in a
Commercial or Industrial District, in which case the thickness shall be
increased to nine inches (9") of portland cement concrete. If, in the
determination of the City Engineer, a street near a Commercial or Industrial
District could be reasonably expected to bear commercial or industrial traffic
as a result of its proximity to that Commercial or Industrial District, its
pavement thickness of portland cement concrete shall be increased to nine
inches (9") of portland cement concrete. Said requirement in or near a
Commercial or Industrial District may be reduced to six inches (6") of portland
cement concrete where the City Engineer has determined that design analysis
justifies less thickness.
         b.   Asphalt cement concrete base course thickness of six inches (6")
with an asphalt cement concrete surface course thickness of two inches (2").
   D.   Alleys:
      1.   Width Of Pavement: Sixteen feet (16') in a Residential District;
twenty feet (20') in or adjacent to a Commercial or Industrial District.
      2.   Surfacing:
         a.   Portland cement concrete paving.
         b.   Asphalt cement concrete paving. Asphalt cement concrete paving
shall not be used in a Commercial or Industrial District. If, in the
determination of the City Engineer, an alley near a Commercial or Industrial
District could be reasonably expected to bear commercial or industrial traffic
as a result of its proximity to that Commercial or Industrial District, its
surfacing shall not be asphalt cement concrete paving.
      3.   Pavement Thickness:
         a.   Six inches (6") of portland cement concrete unless in a
Commercial District, in which case the thickness shall be increased to eight
and one-half inches (81/2") of portland cement concrete. If, in the
determination of the City Engineer, an alley near a Commercial District could
be reasonably expected to bear commercial traffic as a result of its proximity
to that Commercial District, its pavement thickness of portland cement concrete
shall be increased to eight and one-half inches (81/2") of portland cement
concrete. Said requirement in or near a Commercial District may be reduced to
seven inches (7") of portland cement concrete where the City Engineer has
determined that design analysis justifies less thickness.
         b.   Asphalt cement concrete base course thickness of six inches (6")
with an asphalt cement concrete surface course thickness of two inches (2").
(2008 Code § 28-72)
12-3B-4: MINIMUM PAVEMENT WIDTH AND THICKNESS; COSTS:
   A.   Pavement Width: The subdivider shall provide the full width of pavement
on all streets, private drives or alleys within the subdivision, or the cost
equivalent thereof, in accordance with the minimum requirements as specified in
this chapter. The subdivider on each side of a street, private drive or alley
shall provide one-half (1/2) the width of the pavement on all streets, private
drives or alleys, both existing and proposed, immediately adjacent to the
subdivision, or the cost equivalent thereof, in accordance with the minimum
requirements as specified in this chapter. In the city's sole option, the
developer may be required to pay an amount equal to the cost of paving as
provided by current assessment policy, which shall hold such funds until the
adjacent street, private drive, or alley is paved. All costs held pursuant to
this section shall be the total cost required of any developer or subsequent
purchaser of the development for such paving. The cost of such paving shall be
determined by averaging three (3) legitimate bids. If a side of a street,
private drive or alley is zoned as a single-family residence district
exclusively, and circumstances require the width of pavement for the street,
private drive or alley to be in excess of thirty one feet (31'), the city shall
pay for the extra width of pavement on one-half (1/2) the width of pavement for
the street, private drive or alley immediately adjacent to that single-family
residence district, or the equivalent cost thereof, in accordance with the
minimum requirements as specified in this chapter.
   B.   Pavement Thickness: The subdivider on each side of a street, private
drive or alley shall provide the full pavement thickness on all streets,
private drives or alleys in or immediately adjacent to the subdivision, or the
equivalent cost thereof, in accordance with the minimum requirements as
specified in this chapter. If a side of a street, private drive or alley is
zoned as a residential district and circumstances require the pavement
thickness for the street, private drive or alley to be in excess of six inches
(6") of portland cement concrete or eight inches (8") of asphalt cement
concrete, the city shall pay for the extra pavement thickness on one-half (1/2)
the width of pavement for the street, private drive or alley immediately
adjacent to that residential district, or the cost equivalent thereof, in
accordance with the minimum requirements as specified in this chapter.
   C.   Final Plats: All final plats approved by the council after the
effective date of subsection A of this section shall be subject to the
requirements of that subsection. All final plats approved by the council prior
to the effective date of subsection A of this section shall be subject to the
requirements of the section in effect prior to the effective date of that
subsection. All final plats approved by the council prior to or after the
effective date of subsection B of this section shall be subject to the
requirements of that subsection.
   D.   Exception: Notwithstanding the above, when a property owner plats
ground as required pursuant to section
12-1-2 of this title, and no property division into lots results from the
platting, the council shall not require compliance with subsection A of this
section.
   E.   Base Material: Developers shall provide an approved drainable base
material under the following typical local streets:
      1.   Six inch (6") portland cement concrete or eight inch (8") asphaltic
cement concrete paving.
      2.   Six inch (6") drainable base (without engineering fabric) with four
inch (4") drainage tile along both sides in accordance with city
specifications. Does not apply in soils where the city engineer has determined
that drainable base is not needed.
      3.   Developers may choose to employ a parabolic crown or straight crown
on local streets.
      4.   The city will reimburse the developers three dollars ($3.00) per
yard of measured completed pavement as the city's reimbursement for part of the
total cost of the program. Payment shall be made within sixty (60) days of
receipt of a bill. (2008 Code § 28-73)
ARTICLE C. FORMS
SECTION:
12-3C-1: Generally
12-3C-2: Council Resolution
12-3C-3: Final Plat Certificate
12-3C-4: Certificate Of Owner
12-3C-5: Tax Certificate
12-3C-6: Mortgage Holder's Consent And Affidavit In Lieu Thereof
12-3C-7: Attorney's Certificate
12-3C-8: Assessment Waiver
12-3C-9: Maintenance Bond
12-3C-1: GENERALLY:
The forms set out in this article shall be used as required in conjunction with
final plats. (2008 Code § 28-83)
12-3C-2: COUNCIL RESOLUTION:
Council resolutions shall be as follows:
We,  (name) , Mayor, and  (name) , City Clerk of the City of Bettendorf, Iowa,
do hereby certify that the following resolution was adopted by the City Council
of the City of Bettendorf, Iowa, at a regular meeting held on  (month, day) ,
(year) :
"RESOLVED by the City Council of Bettendorf, Iowa, that the final plat of
(name of subdivision) , an addition to the City of Bettendorf, Iowa, as filed
with the City Clerk by  (name of owner and/or subdivider) , be and the same is
hereby approved and accepted; and the dedication for public street purposes and
the granting of easements as shown on said plat are accepted and confirmed and
the Mayor and City Clerk of said City be and they hereby are authorized and
directed to certify the adoption of this resolution on said plat as required by
law."
DATED at Bettendorf, Iowa, this  (date)  day of  (month) ,  (year) .
                              
   Mayor of the City of
   Bettendorf, Iowa
(SEAL)
ATTEST:
(name)
City Clerk
(2008 Code § 28-84)
12-3C-3: FINAL PLAT CERTIFICATE:
Each final plat submitted to the council for approval shall carry a certificate
signed by a registered land surveyor in substantially the following form:
I,  (name) , hereby certify that I am a registered land surveyor, licensed in
compliance with the laws of the State of Iowa; that this plat of  (name of
addition)  an addition to the City of Bettendorf, Iowa, correctly represents a
survey completed by me on  (date) ; that all of the monuments and pins shown
thereon (will exist by  (date)  as required by the Code of Iowa) (do exist) and
that their location, size, type and material are accurately shown; and that the
correct metes and bounds description of said addition is as follows:
(SEAL)
    (signature)
    (registration number)
(2008 Code § 28-85)
12-3C-4: CERTIFICATE OF OWNER:
Each final plat submitted to the commission and the council for approval shall
carry a certificate of owner in substantially the following form:
   We the undersigned (name) , owners of the real estate shown and described
herein, do hereby certify that we have laid off, platted and subdivided, and
hereby lay off, plat and subdivide, said real estate in accordance with the
within plat. We do further certify that this plat is made and submitted with
our free consent and desires.
   This subdivision shall be known and designated as  (name of subdivision) ,
an addition to the City of Bettendorf, Iowa. All streets and alleys shown and
not heretofore dedicated, are hereby dedicated to the public.
   Front yard building setback lines shall be in conformance with the City Code
requirements on setbacks as they do or may exist at the time any building
permit is received. Within the area between the building setback line and the
property line of the street, no building or structure shall be erected or
maintained.
   A perpetual easement is hereby granted to any local public utility or
municipal department, their successors and assigns, within the area shown on
the plat and marked as an easement, to install, lay, construct, renew, operate,
maintain and remove conduits, cables, pipes, poles and wires with all necessary
braces, guys, anchors, manholes and other equipment for the purpose of serving
the subdivision and other property with the underground telephone, storm sewer,
cable television, electric, gas, sanitary sewer, water or other service as a
part of the respective utility systems; (further, an overhead easement is
hereby granted for those overhead utilities in existence at the time of this
platting); also is granted, subject to the prior rights of the public therein,
the right to use the streets and lots with underground service lines to serve
adjacent lots and street lights, the right to cut down and remove or trim and
keep trimmed any trees or shrubs that interfere or threaten to interfere with
any of the said public utility equipment, and the right is hereby granted to
enter upon the lots at all times for all of the purposes aforesaid. No
permanent buildings or trees shall be placed on said area as shown on the plat
and marked "easement," but same may be used for gardens, shrubs, landscaping
and other purposes that do not then or later interfere with the aforesaid uses
or the rights herein granted.
   (Additional dedications and protective covenants, or private restrictions,
would be inserted here upon the subdivider's initiative or the recommendation
of the commission or council, important provisions are those specifying the use
to be made of the property, the minimum habitable floor area of a residence,
any limitation on access to streets, minimum basement floor elevations or first
floor elevations where basements are not provided in areas subject to flooding,
or minimum number of off-street parking spaces.)
   The foregoing covenants or restrictions are to run with the land and shall
be binding on all parties and all persons claiming under them until January 1,
(year)  (a 25-year period is suggested), at which time said covenants or
restrictions shall be automatically extended for successive periods of ten (10)
years unless changed by a vote of a majority of the then owners of the building
sites covered by these covenants or restrictions.
   The right to enforce these Restrictive Covenants by injunction, together
with the right to cause the removal, by due process of law, of any structure or
part thereof erected or maintained in violation hereof, is reserved to the
several owners of the several lots in this subdivision and to their heirs and
assigns and to the City of Bettendorf if specifically noted as a provision of a
Covenant.
   Witness our Hands (and Seals) this  (date) day of  (month) ,  (year) .
                             
   (husband)
                             
   (wife)
   or
                             
   (office)
(SEAL)
                             
   (office)
State of Iowa )
             ) ss:
County of Scott )
   (SEAL)
Before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public, in and for the County and State,
personally appeared  (name) ,  (name) ,  (name)  and each separately and
severally acknowledge the execution of the foregoing instrument as his or her
voluntary act and deed, for the purpose therein expressed. Witness my hand and
notarial seal this  (date)  day of  (month) ,  (year) .
(SEAL)
                            
   Notary Public
or
State of Iowa )
          ) ss:
County of Scott )
   Before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public, in and for the County and
State, personally appeared  (name)  and  (name)  to me personally known, who
being by me duly sworn did say that they are the  (office)  and  (office)
respectively of said corporation executing the within and foregoing instrument,
(no seal has been procured by the said) (the seal affixed thereto is the seal
of said) corporation; that said instrument was signed (and sealed) on behalf of
said corporation by authority of its Board of Directors and that the said
(name)  and  (name)  as such officers acknowledged the execution of said
instrument to be the voluntary act and deed of said corporation, by it and by
them voluntarily executed.
   (SEAL)
                             
   Notary Public
(2008 Code § 28-86)
12-3C-5: TAX CERTIFICATE:
The certificate on taxes shall be in the following form:
I,                    , Treasurer for the County of Scott, State of Iowa,
hereby certify that I have examined the records of said County, and find that
the following described real estate, to wit:
                     (name of addition)
is free from certified taxes and certified special assessments, or that the
land is free from certified taxes and that the certified special assessments
are secured by land in compliance with Section 354.12 of the 1993 State Code of
Iowa.
                                                            
Date    Treasurer,
                       Scott County, Iowa
(SEAL)
(2008 Code § 28-87)
12-3C-6: MORTGAGE HOLDER'S CONSENT AND AFFIDAVIT IN LIEU THEREOF:
A.   The certificate reflecting the mortgage holder's consent to plat, or the
affidavit of the owner in lieu thereof shall be in the following form:
I,  (name)  hereby certify that I am employed by                           
hereinafter Mortgage holder in the capacity of                    , that I have
authority on behalf of the mortgage holder to make the following
representations:
1.   That the plat attached hereto is prepared with my free consent and in
accordance with my design.
2.   That the mortgage lien on such property is hereby released on all land in
the plat dedicated to the public for its use, whether such dedication is for
streets, alleys, easements, park, or other public use.
                                                                 
   Date      Signature of Authorized Individual
   Before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the County and State,
personally appeared                       who being duly sworn did say that he
is authorized on behalf of                             to bid such organization
to the statement above, and trust the same was executed as a free and voluntary
act.
                          
   Notary Public
B.   The certificate for lien holders consent shall be the same as above,
except that the word "lien holder" shall be substituted for the words "mortgage
holder."
C.    In lieu of the required consent, the owner may submit a bond in an amount
double the amount of the lien and the following affidavit:
   I,                      hereby certify that a consent of the lien holder is
not attached to the plat for the following reason: (strike the reason not
appropriate)
1.   The lien holder cannot be found.
2.   The lien holder will not accept payment or cannot, because of the nature
of the lien, accept payment in full. Payment in full was tendered and refused.
                                            
      Dated    Owner
   Sworn and subscribed before me by the above signed individual on the
            day of             , 199   .
                                      
                  Notary Public
(2008 Code § 28-89)
12-3C-7: ATTORNEY'S CERTIFICATE:
The attorney's certificate shall be in the following form:
   I,  (name) , certify that I have examined the records of Scott County, Iowa,
and the records of the United States District Court for the Southern District
of Iowa, Davenport Division, and from such examination find title in fee simple
to the real estate identified as  (name of subdivision) , an Addition to the
City of Bettendorf, Iowa, free and clear of all liens and unbonded encumbrances
as of this date, to be vested in  (name of owner) .
   DATED, this  (date)  day of (month) ,  (year) .
               By  (name)
                Attorney-At-Law
(2008 Code § 28-90)
12-3C-8: ASSESSMENT WAIVER:
The assessment waiver shall be in the following form:
   The undersigned, (owner of subdivision) , has this date filed with the Clerk
of the City of Bettendorf, Iowa, a plat of  (name of addition) , an Addition to
the City of Bettendorf, Iowa.
   It is agreed by the undersigned, their successors, heirs and assigns that at
such time as street improvements, sanitary sewers, storm drainage facilities,
sidewalks (sidewalks shall be placed in a separate waiver) or other
conventional type of subdivision improvements are needed, the City of
Bettendorf shall put in said improvements and assess the total cost of same in
the prescribed manner against the subdivided property comprising said  (name of
subdivision)  in accordance with the laws regarding special assessments. Said
assessment shall be paid in one installment payment.
   In accordance with the provisions of the Municipal Ordinances of the City of
Bettendorf, the undersigned subdivider and owner of all lots in said  (name of
addition) , an addition to the City of Bettendorf, Iowa, for themselves, their
heirs, grantees, representative successors, assignees and all subsequent owners
of any part of said addition do hereby waive all formalities, rights of protest
and rights of appeal to the ordering of said improvements and assessing the
cost thereof against the subdivided property even though the cost thereof may
exceed the amount that can legally be assessed by the City of Bettendorf
against the subdivided property and agrees to be responsible for such
differences and agrees to permit the assessment of the entire cost of all of
said improvements against the subdivided property. This waiver shall become
null and void at such time as the original required subdivision improvements
herein referred to are completed by the undersigned at no cost to the City and
accepted by the City of Bettendorf, Iowa, and a release of Waiver is signed by
the City Engineer and duly recorded.
DATED this  (date)  day of  (month) ,  (year) .
               By                         
                     (husband)
               By                         
                     (wife)
   or
(SEAL)
State of Iowa )
) ss:
County of Scott )
               By                        
                     (office)
               By                        
                     (office)
   Before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public, in and for the County and
State, personally appeared  (name) ,  (name) ,  (name) ,  (name) , and each
separately and severally acknowledge the execution of the foregoing instrument
as his or her voluntary act and deed, for the purpose therein expressed.
Witness my hand and notarial seal this (date)  day of (month) ,  (year) .
(SEAL)
   Before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the County and State,
personally appeared  (name) , and  (name)  to me personally known, who being by
me duly sworn did say that they are the  (office)  and  (office)  respectively
of said corporation executing the within and foregoing instrument, (no seal has
been procured by the said) (the seal affixed thereto is the seal of said)
corporation; that said instrument was signed (and sealed) on behalf of said
corporation by authority of its Board of Directors and that the said  (name)
and  (name)  as such officers acknowledged the execution of said instrument to
be the voluntary act and deed of said corporation, by it and by them
voluntarily executed.
(SEAL)
                                        
               Notary Public
(2008 Code § 28-91)
12-3C-9: MAINTENANCE BOND:
The maintenance bond shall be in the following form:
   MAINTENANCE BOND
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT WE,  (contractor's name) , as PRINCIPAL,
and  (Surety) , a company duly authorized to transact business in the State of
Iowa, as surety, are held and firmly bound unto the City of Bettendorf, Iowa,
as obligee, in the sum of  ($ )  for payment whereof well and truly to be made,
the principal and the surety bind themselves, their heirs, executors,
administrators, successors, and assigns jointly and severally firmly by these
presents.
   SIGNED and sealed and dated this           day of               , 20       .
WHEREAS, the principal has entered into contract for the construction of
(improvement to an addition)
to the City of Bettendorf, Iowa.
   WHEREAS, the obligee has required said principal to furnish a bond
guaranteeing remedy of any defect in material or workmanship within a period of
four (4) years from the date of official acceptance of the improvements by the
City Council of the City of Bettendorf, Iowa.
   NOW, THEREFORE, the condition of this obligation is such that if the said
principal does and shall at his own cost and expense remedy any and all defects
that may develop in said work, then this obligation shall be null and void;
otherwise, it shall remain in full force and effect.
               By                                     
                Principal
               By                                     
                Surety
               By                                     
                Agent & Attorney-in-Fact
STATE OF   )
             ) ss:
COUNTY OF    )
   On this        day of                ,      , A.D., before me, the
undersigned, a Notary Public, personally appeared the above named  Principal
(Agent or Attorney for Principal) , and/or  Surety (Agent or Attorney for
Surety) , to me known to be the person or persons named in and who executed the
foregoing instrument, and acknowledged that he (they) executed the same as his
(their) voluntary act and deed.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto signed my name and affixed my Notarial
Seal the day and year last above written.
(SEAL)
                                                                       
               Notary Public in and for            County
               State of                       
                                            
Name of Local Insurance Agent
                                            
Address
(Ord. 08-18, 4-17-2018)
TITLE 13
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD AREA MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
13-1-1: Legal Authority And Purpose
13-1-2: Findings Of Fact
13-1-3: Definitions
13-1-4: Interpretation
13-1-5: Compliance Required
13-1-6: Administrator, Appointment And Duties
13-1-7: Flood Area Development Permit Requirements
13-1-8: Lands To Which Regulations Apply
13-1-9: Rules For Interpretation Of District Boundaries
13-1-10: Variances
13-1-11: Floodplain Area Standards
13-1-12: Floodway Area
13-1-13: Amendments
13-1-14: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
13-1-15: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
13-1-16: Penalties For Violations
13-1-17: Severability
13-1-1: LEGAL AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Legal Authority: Iowa Code chapter 364 grants cities the authority,
except as expressly limited by the constitution and if not inconsistent with
the laws of the general assembly, to exercise any power and perform any
function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the rights, privileges,
and property of the city or of its residents, and to preserve and improve the
peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and convenience of its residents.
   B.   Purpose: These regulations are established for the purpose of meeting
the needs of the rivers and streams to carry floodwaters and to protect the
rivers, creek channels, and floodplains from encroachment so that flood heights
and flood damage will not be appreciably increased; to provide the necessary
regulations for the protection of the public health and safety in areas subject
to flooding; and to reduce the financial burdens imposed upon the community by
floods. (2008 Code app. C art. I; amd. Ord. 03-21, 2-16-2021; Ord. 07-24, 2-20-
2024)
13-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of Bettendorf are subject to periodic inundation
which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and
convenience of its residents.
   B.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are caused by:
      1.   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood
damages which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately
elevated or otherwise unprotected from flooding; and
      2.   The cumulative effect of obstructions on the floodplain causing
increases in flood heights and velocities.
   C.   This chapter relies upon engineering methodology for analyzing flood
hazards which includes the extensive study on flood drainage undertaken by the
city. This approach is consistent with the standards established by the
Department of Natural Resources. (2008 Code app. C art. I; amd. Ord. 03-21, 2-
16-2021; Ord. 07-24, 2-20-2024)
13-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
APPURTENANT    A structure which is on the same parcel of the property as the principal
STRUCTURE:     structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
               principal structure.
BASE FLOOD:    A flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
               given year.
BASE FLOOD     The elevation floodwaters would reach at a particular site during the
ELEVATION      occurrence of a base flood event.
(BFE):
BASEMENT:      Any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or lowest level below
               ground level (subgrade) on all sides. Also, see definition of Lowest Floor.
               Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not
               limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling,
               grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations or storage of equipment or
DEVELOPMENT:   materials. "Development" does not include "minor projects" or "routine
               maintenance of existing buildings and facilities" as defined in this
               section. It also does not include gardening, plowing, and similar practices
               that do not involve filling, grading, or excavating.
               The floor of the lowest enclosed area in a building when all the following
               criteria are met:
               A. The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic pressure
               during flood events with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions of
ENCLOSED AREA  section 13-1-11(H)(1) of this chapter, and
BELOW LOWEST   B. The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled, etc.) and used
FLOOR:         solely for low damage potential uses such as building access, parking or
               storage, and
               C. Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
               electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one
               foot (1') above the base flood elevation, and
               D. The enclosed area is not a "basement" as defined in this section.
EXISTING       Any structure for which the “start of construction” commenced before the
CONSTRUCTION:  effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
               city.
               A factory-built home park or subdivision for which the construction of
EXISTING       facilities for servicing the lots on which the factory built homes are to be
FACTORY-BUILT  affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
HOME PARK OR   construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of
SUBDIVISION:   concrete pads) is complete before the effective date of the floodplain
               management's regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION OF   The preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
EXISTING       servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
FACTORY-BUILT  (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
HOME PARK OR   streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
SUBDIVISION:
FACTORY-BUILT  A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more
HOME PARK OR   factory-built home lots for rent or sale.
SUBDIVISION:
               Any structure, designed for residential use which is wholly or in
               substantial part, made, fabricated, formed or assembled in manufacturing
               facilities for installation or assembly and installation, on a building
FACTORY-BUILT  site. For the purpose of this chapter, factory-built homes include mobile
HOME:          homes, factory-built homes, and modular homes; and also include
               "recreational vehicles" which are placed on a site for greater than one
               hundred eighty (180) consecutive days and not fully licensed for and ready
               for highway use.
FIVE HUNDRED   A flood, the magnitude of which has a two-tenths percent (0.2%) chance of
(500) YEAR     being equaled or exceeded in any given year or which, on average, will be
FLOOD:         equaled or exceeded at least once every five hundred (500) years.
FLOOD          The official map prepared as part of (but published separately from) the
INSURANCE RATE Flood Insurance Study which delineates both the flood hazard areas and the
MAP (FIRM):    risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD          A report published by FEMA for a community issued along with the community's
INSURANCE      Flood Insurance Rate Map(s). The study contains such background data as the
STUDY:         base flood discharge and water surface elevations that were used to prepare
               the FIRM.
               A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
FLOOD OR       normally dry land areas from: a) the overflow of inland or tidal waters; b)
FLOODING:      the usual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
               source.
FLOODPLAIN:    Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source (see
               definition of Flood or Flooding).
               An overall program of corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood
FLOODPLAIN     damages and promoting the wise use of floodplains, including but not limited
MANAGEMENT:    to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodproofing and
               floodplain management regulations.
               Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes, or
FLOODPROOFING: adjustments to structures, including utility and sanitary facilities, which
               will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such structures.
               The channel of a river or other watercourse and the floodplain adjoining the
FLOODWAY OR    channel, which are reasonably required to carry and discharge floodwaters or
REGULATORY     flood flows so that confinement of flood flow to the floodway area will not
FLOODWAY:      cumulatively increase the water surface elevation of the base flood by more
               than one foot (1').
FLOODWAY       That area of the special flood hazard area outside of the floodway.
FRINGE:
               A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
               purposes of floodplain management. "Freeboard" tends to compensate for the
FREEBOARD:     many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
               height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
               wave action, clogged bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
               urbanization of the watershed.
HIGHEST        The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction
ADJACENT       next to the proposed walls of a structure.
GRADE:
               Any structure that is: a) listed individually in the national register of
               historic places (a listing maintained by the department of the interior) or
               preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
               requirements for individual listing on the national register; b) certified
               or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as contributing
               to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a
HISTORIC       district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as a
STRUCTURE:     registered historic district; c) individually listed on a state inventory of
               historic places in states with historic preservation programs which have
               been approved by the secretary of the interior; or d) individually listed on
               a local inventory of historic places in communities with historic
               preservation programs that have been certified either: 1) by an approved
               state program as determined by the secretary of the interior; or 2) directly
               by the secretary of the interior in states without approved programs.
               The floor of the lowest enclosed area in a building including a basement
LOWEST FLOOR:  except when the criteria listed in the definition of "enclosed area below
               lowest floor" are met.
               Hospitals and like institutions; buildings or building complexes containing
MAXIMUM DAMAGE documents, data, or instruments of great public value; buildings or building
POTENTIAL      complexes containing materials dangerous to the public or fuel storage
DEVELOPMENT:   facilities; power installations needed in emergency or other buildings or
               building complexes similar in nature or use.
MINOR          Small development activities (except for filling, grading, and excavating)
PROJECTS:      valued at less than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
               For floodplain management purposes, "new construction" means structures for
NEW            which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of
CONSTRUCTION:  the floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
               subsequent improvements to such structures.
               A factory-built home park or subdivision for which the construction of
NEW FACTORY-   facilities for servicing the lots on which the factory built homes are to be
BUILT HOME     affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
PARK OR        construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of
SUBDIVISION:   concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective date of the first
               floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
OVERLAY        A district in which additional requirements act in conjunction with the
DISTRICT:      underlying zoning districts. The original zoning district designation does
               not change.
PRINCIPALLY    At least fifty percent (50%) of the actual cash value of the structure is
ABOVEGROUND:   aboveground.
               A vehicle which is: a) built on a single chassis; b) four hundred (400)
RECREATIONAL   square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection; c)
VEHICLE:       designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
               and d) designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
               temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
               Repairs necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that
               do not require a building permit, provided they are not associated with a
               general improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such
ROUTINE        repairs include:
MAINTENANCE OF A. Normal maintenance of structures such as reroofing, replacing roofing
EXISTING       tiles, and replacing siding;
BUILDINGS AND  B. Exterior and interior painting, wallpapering, tiling, carpeting,
FACILITIES:    cabinets, countertops and similar finish work;
               C. Basement sealing;
               D. Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes;
               E. Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating or air
               conditioning systems, and repairing wells or septic systems.
SPECIAL FLOOD  The land within a community subject to the "base flood". This land is
HAZARD AREA:   identified on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A1-30, AE,
               AH, AO, AR, and/or A99.
               For other than new construction or substantial improvements under the
               coastal barrier resources act (PB. 1. 97-348), includes substantial
               improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
               actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
               addition, placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180)
               days of the permit date. The actual start means the first placement of
               permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab
               or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any
START OF       work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a factory-built
CONSTRUCTION:  home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
               preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
               installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
               a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary
               forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory
               buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not
               part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
               of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
               other structural part of a building, whether or not the alteration affects
               the external dimensions of the building.
               Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the ground,
STRUCTURE:     including, but not limited to, buildings, factories, sheds, cabins, factory-
               built homes, storage tanks, grain storage facilities and/or other similar
               uses.
               Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring
               the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty
               percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
SUBSTANTIAL    occurred. Substantial damage also means flood related damage sustained by a
DAMAGE:        structure on two (2) separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for
               which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the
               average, equals or exceeds twenty five percent (25%) of the market value of
               the structure before the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated
               materials shall be included in the estimated cost of repair.
               Any improvement to a structure which satisfies either of the following
               criteria:
               A. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of
               which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
               structure either (i) before the "start of construction" of the improvement,
               or (ii) if the structure has been "substantially damaged" and is being
               restored, before the damage occurred. The term does not, however, include
               either: a) any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
               violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
SUBSTANTIAL    which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which
IMPROVEMENT:   are the minimum necessary to ensure safe living conditions; or b) any
               alteration of a "historic structure"; provided, that the alterations will
               not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
               structure".
               B. Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building by
               twenty five percent (25%) or more. All additions constructed after the
               effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
               community shall be added to any proposed addition in determining whether the
               total increase in original floor space would exceed twenty five percent
               (25%).
               A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this chapter which
VARIANCES:     permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
               specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
               The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with
               the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure or other
               development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or other
VIOLATION:     evidence of compliance required in these regulations is presumed to be in
               violation until such time as that documentation is provided. (2008 Code app.
               C art. VIII; amd. Ord. 02-14, 2-18-2014; Ord. 01-16, 1-5-2016; Ord. 03-21,
               2-16-2021; Ord. 07-24, 2-20-2024)
 
13-1-4: INTERPRETATION:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in favor of
the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any other
powers granted by state statutes. (2008 Code app. C art. III; amd. Ord. 03-21,
2-16-20212; Ord. 07-24, 2-20-2024)
13-1-5: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No structure or land shall hereafter be used and no structure shall be located,
extended, converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations which apply to uses
within the jurisdiction of this chapter. (2008 Code app. C art. III; amd. Ord.
03-21, 2-16- 2021; Ord. 07-24, 2-20-2024)
13-1-6: ADMINISTRATOR, APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES:
   A.   Enforcement Official: The zoning and building inspector shall
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter and will herein be
referred to as the administrator.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: Duties and responsibilities of the
administrator shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following:
      1.   Review all floodplain development permit applications to ensure that
the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied.
      2.   Review all floodplain development permit applications to ensure that
all necessary permits have been obtained from federal, state or local
governmental agencies, including approval when required from the Department of
Natural Resources for floodplain construction.
      3.   Record and maintain a record of: a) the elevation (in relation to
North American Vertical Datum 1988) of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new or substantially improved buildings; or b) the elevation to which new
or substantially improved structures have been floodproofed. Lowest floor
elevation figures of structures in zone A need not be maintained unless base
flood elevation data from a source other than the flood insurance rate map is
obtained.
      4.   Notify adjacent communities and/or counties and the Department of
Natural Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a
watercourse and submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
      5.   Keep a record of all permits, appeals, variances and such other
transactions and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this
chapter.
      6.   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administration an annual report
concerning the community's participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administrator.
      7.   Notify the Federal Insurance Administration of any annexations or
modifications to the community's boundaries.
      8.   Review subdivision proposals to ensure such proposals are consistent
with the purpose of this chapter and advise the Board of Adjustment of
potential conflict.
      9.   Maintain the accuracy of the community's Flood Insurance Rate Maps
when: a) development placed within the floodway results in any of the
following: (i) an increase in the base flood elevations, or (ii) alteration to
the floodway boundary; b) development placed in zones A, AE, AH, and A1-30 that
does not include a designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one
foot in the base elevation; or c) development relocates or alters the channel.
Within six (6) months of the completion of the development, the applicant shall
submit to FEMA all scientific and technical data necessary for a Letter of Map
Revision.
      10.   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with the standards of
this chapter. (2008 Code app. C art. II; amd. Ord. 03-21, 2-16-2021; Ord. 07-
24, 2-20-2024)
13-1-7: FLOOD AREA DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: A flood area development permit issued by the
administrator shall be secured prior to initiation of any floodplain
development (any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, filling,
grading, paving, storage of materials and equipment, excavation or drilling
operations) including the placement of factory-built homes.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for a floodplain development permit
shall be made on forms supplied by the administrator and shall include the
following information:
      1.   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
      2.   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done
(i.e., lot, block, tract, street, or similar description) that will readily
identify and locate the work to be done.
      3.   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended.
      4.   Elevation of the base flood.
      5.   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) of the
lowest floor (including basement) of buildings or of the level to which a
building is to be floodproofed.
      6.   Location and dimensions of all structures and additions.
      7.   For structures being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost of
improvements and market value of the structure prior to the improvements.
      8.   Such other information as the administrator deems reasonably
necessary for the purpose of this chapter.
   C.   Action On Permit Application: The administrator shall, within a
reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed floodplain
development meets the applicable standards of this chapter and shall approve or
disapprove the application. For disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed,
in writing, of the specific reasons therefor. The administrator shall not issue
permits for variances except as directed by the appropriate board.
   D.   Construction And Use As Provided In Application And Plans:
      1.   Floodplain development permits based on the basis of approved plans
and applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set
forth in such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement or
construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor,
as appropriate, registered in the state of Iowa, that the finished fill,
building floor elevations, floodproofing, or other flood protection measures
were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to
the use or occupancy of any structure.
      2.   The administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any
base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state, or
other source, as criteria for requiring that new construction, substantial
improvements, or other development in zone A meets the requirements of this
chapter. (2008 Code app. C art. II; amd. Ord. 03-21, 2-16-2021; Ord. 07-24, 2-
20-2024)
13-1-8: LANDS TO WHICH REGULATIONS APPLY:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all lands and uses which have
significant flood hazards. The flood insurance rate map (FIRM) for Scott County
and incorporated areas, city of Bettendorf, panels 19163C0360H, 0367H, 0370H,
0376H, 0377H, 0378H, 0379H, 0381H, 0383H, 0386H, 0387H, 0388H, 0391H, dated
April 11, 2024 and panel 19163C0369G, dated June 9, 2014, which were prepared
as part of the Scott County flood insurance study, shall be used to identify
such flood hazard areas and all areas shown thereon to be within the boundaries
of the base flood shall be considered as having significant flood hazards. The
Scott County flood insurance study is hereby adopted by reference and is made a
part of this chapter for the purpose of administering floodplain management
regulations. (Ord. 02-14, 2-18-2014; amd. Ord. 03-21, 2-16-2021; Ord. 07-24, 2-
20-2024)
13-1-9: RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
The boundaries of the special flood hazard areas shall be determined by scaling
distances on the official flood insurance rate map. Where uncertainty exists
with respect to the precise location of the base flood boundary, the location
shall be determined on the basis of the base flood elevation at the particular
site in question. Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
the boundaries as shown on the official map, the administrator shall make the
necessary interpretation. The person contesting the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present their case and submit
technical evidence. (2008 Code app. C art. III; amd. Ord. 03-21, 2-16-2021;
Ord. 07-24, 2-20-2024)
13-1-10: VARIANCES:
   A.   Variances Authorized For Certain Building Construction Items: Except
for first floor elevation requirements, the Board of Appeals may authorize,
upon request, a variance from the requirements of this chapter as it relates to
the following building construction items:
      1.   Foundation construction.
      2.   Floodproofing requirements.
      3.   Any item closely allied to the aforementioned items.
   B.   Other Variance Requests: The Board of Adjustment may authorize a
variance from the terms of this chapter on all other requests.
   C.   Meeting Certain Standards: Variances granted must not be contrary to
the public interests and meet the following applicable standards:
      1.   No variance shall be granted for any development which would result
in any increase in flood heights during the occurrence of the base flood.
      2.   Variances shall only be granted upon: a) a showing of good and
sufficient cause; and b) a determination that owing to special conditions
failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship to the
applicant; and c) a determination that the granting of the variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public.
      3.   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      4.   All variances granted shall have the concurrence or approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
      5.   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood
protection for structures than what is ordinarily required by this section, the
applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Administrator
that: a) the issuance of a variance will result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance up to amounts as high as twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for one
hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage; b) such construction increases
risks to life and property.
   D.   Decision Based Upon Certain Factors: In passing upon applications for
variances, consideration shall be given to relevant factors specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
      2.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other land or downstream
to the injury of others.
      3.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary conditions.
      4.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
      5.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the city.
      6.   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location.
      7.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use.
      8.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
      9.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for the area.
      10.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
      11.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwater expected at the site.
      12.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this
chapter.
   E.   Conditions Attached To Variances: Upon consideration of the factors
listed above, conditions may be attached to the granting of variances as deemed
necessary to further the purpose of this chapter. Such conditions may include,
but not necessarily be limited to:
      1.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
      2.   Limitation of periods of use and operation.
      3.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed restrictions.
      4.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees, and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the
Department of Natural Resources and are deemed the only practicable alternative
to achieving the purpose of this chapter.
      5.   Floodproofing measures. (2008 Code app. C art. II; amd. Ord. 03- 21,
2-16-2021; Ord. 07-24, 2-20-2024; Ord. 11-24, 4-2-2024)
13-1-11: FLOODPLAIN AREA STANDARDS:
   A.   Location: The location of this area is based on the Special Flood
Hazard Area boundary as delineated on the Scott County flood insurance rate
maps dated April 11, 2024 and June 9, 2014 as revised and provided by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The requirements of this section shall
take precedence over any conflicting requirement of the city.
   B.   Uses Allowed: Permitted, special, temporary and accessory uses as set
forth and regulated in the Bettendorf zoning ordinance are permitted in this
area.
   C.   Site And Structure Requirements:
      1.   All development and structures shall conform to the requirements of
the Bettendorf building code and to the requirements of the district in which
the development is located in the Bettendorf zoning ordinance except for the
additional requirements which are noted in this chapter.
      2.   All regulations in regard to area, width, yards, height, floor area
ratio, and minimum size of dwelling shall conform to the zoning regulations of
the city.
      3.   All proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding.
Earth fill or other materials may be used to raise the elevation of the land,
provided it does not increase the flood level more than one foot (1') above the
base flood elevation at any point. The amount of fill should not be greater
than is necessary to achieve the purpose and requirements of this chapter, as
demonstrated by a plan filed by the applicant showing the uses to which the
filled land shall be put and the final dimensions of the proposed fill or other
materials. Fill or other materials shall be protected against erosion by
riprap, vegetative cover, or bulkheading.
      4.   All development must be consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and meet the following applicable performance standards. Where base
flood elevations have not been provided in the Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to determine (i) whether the
land involved is either wholly or partly within the floodway or floodway fringe
and (ii) the base flood elevation. Until a regulatory floodway is designated,
no development may increase the Base Flood Elevation more than one foot (1').
The applicant will be responsible for providing the Department of Natural
Resources with sufficient technical information to make such determination.
   D.   Outside Storage:
      1.   The outside storage or processing of materials, machinery, or
equipment that in the time of flooding are buoyant, flammable, explosive,
pollutant or could be injurious to human, animal or plant life, may be
permitted, if placed on a fill above the level of inundation for a base flood,
or if adequately protected by a dike revetment, levee or similar structure.
Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed without flood protection
if firmly anchored to prevent flotation or if easily moved.
      2.   Due to the relative slow rise of the Mississippi River compared to
its tributaries, the storage restrictions of this chapter will not be required
if located exclusively in the Mississippi floodplain area and if the landowner
or tenant can provide assurances in writing to the satisfaction of the building
administrator that the aforementioned storage can be removed within a forty
eight (48) hour period.
   E.   Anchoring Requirements: All new and substantially improved structures
shall be: 1) designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement of the structure; 2) constructed with materials and utility
equipment resistant to flood damage; and 3) constructed by methods and
practices that minimize flood damage.
   F.   Residential Elevation Requirements: All new or substantially improved
residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated a minimum of two feet (2') above the base flood elevation. All new
residential structures located in areas that would become isolated due to
flooding of surrounding ground shall be provided with a means of access that
will be passable by wheeled vehicles during the base flood. However, this
criterion shall not apply where the Administrator determines there is
sufficient flood warning time for the protection of life and property. When
estimating flood warning time, consideration shall be given to the criteria
listed in 567-75.2(3), Iowa Administrative Code.
   G.   Nonresidential Elevation Requirements:
      1.   All new or substantially improved nonresidential buildings shall
have the first floor (including basement) elevated a minimum of two feet (2')
above the base flood elevation, or together with attendant utility and sanitary
systems, be floodproofed to such a level.
      2.   When floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered
in the state of Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing methods used are
adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and
uplift forces and other factors associated with the base flood; and that the
structure, below the base flood elevation, is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water.
      3.   A record of the certification indicating the specific elevation (in
relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the administrator.
   H.   Foundation And Facilities: Fully enclosed areas below the "lowest
floor" (not including basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by
allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this
requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or
meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) openings located to permit automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters and having a total net area of not less than one (1) square
inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be
provided.
      2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      4.   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed with
electric meter, electrical service panel box, hot water heater, heating, air
conditioning, ventilation equipment (including ductwork), and other similar
machinery and equipment elevated (or in the case on non-residential structures,
optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of two feet (2') above the base flood
elevation.
      5.   Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building
access, and low damage potential storage.
      6.   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
      7.   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed with
plumbing, gas lines, water/gas meters and other similar service utilities
either elevated (or in the case of non-residential structures, optionally
floodproofed to) a minimum of two feet (2') above the base flood elevation or
designed to be watertight and withstand inundation to such a level.
   I.   Factory-built homes:
      1.   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions shall be
anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Methods of
anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame
ties to ground anchors. Anchorage systems may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors as required by the State
Building Code.
      2.   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions shall be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the structure
is a minimum of two feet (2') above the base flood elevation.
   J.   Utility And Sanitary Systems:
      1.   All new and replacement sanitary sewers must be sealed to prevent
undue infiltration. Such infiltration shall not exceed the rate of fifteen (15)
gallons per day per one hundred feet (100') of four-inch (4") sewer pipe, or
twenty-two (22) gallons per day per one hundred feet (100') of six-inch (6")
sewer pipe, or thirty (30) gallons per day per one hundred feet (100') of
eight-inch (8") sewer pipe.
      2.   On site waste disposal and water supply systems shall be located or
designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system
during flooding.
      3.   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system. Water supply
treatment facilities shall be provided with a level of protection equal to or
greater than two feet (2') above the base flood elevation.
      4.   Wastewater treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall
be provided with a level of flood protection equal to or greater than two feet
(2') above the base flood elevation.
      5.   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood-damaged or impaired systems.
   K.   No development shall affect the capacity of conveyance of the channel
of floodway of any tributary to the main stream, drainage ditch, or other
drainage facility or system.
   L.   Floodplain Area Standards; Subdivision Requirements:
      1.   Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during a
base flood.
      2.   All proposals for subdivisions, regardless of size or number of
lots, shall include base flood elevation data for those areas located within
the area of significant flood hazard.
      3.   Subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize
flood damages and shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to
flood damage.
      4.   Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the
installation of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance
standards of this chapter.
   M.   Outbuildings And Non-major Buildings: Detached garages, sheds, and
similar accessory type structures that are incidental to a residential use are
exempt from the base flood elevation requirements when the following criteria
are satisfied:
      1.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage potential.
Its size shall not exceed six hundred (600) square feet in size. Those portions
of the structure located less than two feet (2') above the base flood elevation
must be constructed of flood-resistant materials.
      2.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage potential
purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage. The structure shall not
be used for human habitation.
      3.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      4.   Structures shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
and lateral movement which may result in damage to other structures.
      5.   The structure's service facilities such as electrical and heating
equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least two feet (2') above the
base flood elevation.
      6.   The structure's walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provision of subsection H of this section.
   N.   Recreational Vehicles:
      1.   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of subsection
I of this section regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built homes when
the following criteria are satisfied:
         a.   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less
than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days; and
         b.   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
      2.   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must
satisfy requirements of subsection I of this section regarding anchoring and
elevation of factory-built homes.
   O.   Flood Control Structural Works: Flood control structural works such as
levees, floodwalls, etc., shall provide, at a minimum, protection from a base
flood with a minimum of three feet (3') of design freeboard and shall provide
for adequate interior drainage. In addition, the Department of Natural
Resources shall approve structural flood control works.
   P.   Watercourse Alterations: Watercourse alterations or relocations
(channel changes and modifications) must be designed to maintain the flood
carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion. In addition, such
alterations or relocations must be approved by the Department of Natural
Resources.
   Q.   Stream Crossings: Pipeline river or stream crossings shall be buried in
the stream bed and banks or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent rupture
due to channel degradation and meandering or due to the action of flood flows.
   R.   Maximum Damage Potential Development: All new or substantially improved
maximum damage potential development shall have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above the elevation of the five
hundred (500) year flood or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
systems, be floodproofed to such a level. When floodproofing is utilized, a
professional engineer registered in the State of Iowa shall certify that the
floodproofing methods used are adequate to withstand the flood depths,
pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces, and other factors associated
with the two tenths percent (0.2%) annual chance flood and that the structure,
below the two tenths percent (0.2%) annual chance flood elevation, is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water. A
record of the certification indicating the specific elevation (in relation to
North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any structures are floodproofed
shall be maintained by the Administrator. Where two tenths percent (0.2%)
chance flood elevation data has not been provided in the Flood Insurance Study,
the Iowa Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to compute such
data. The applicant will be responsible for providing the Department of Natural
Resources with sufficient technical information to make such determinations.
(Ord. 01-16, 1-5-2016; amd. Ord. 03-21, 2-16-2021; Ord. 07-24, 2-20-2024)
13-1-12: FLOODWAY AREA:
   A.   Location: The location of this area is based on the Scott County Flood
Insurance Rate Maps dated April 11, 2024 and June 9, 2014, as revised and
provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. In addition to the
Floodplain Area Standards, development within the floodway must meet the
following applicable standards. The floodway is that portion of the floodplain
which must be protected from developmental encroachment to allow the free flow
of flood waters. The requirements of this section shall take precedence over
any conflicting requirements of the city.
   B.   Special Floodway Provisions:
      1.   Where no floodway data has been provided, the Department of Natural
Resources shall be contacted to provide a floodway delineation.
      2.   The applicant will be responsible for providing the Department of
Natural Resources with sufficient technical information to make such
determination.
      3.   No development shall be permitted in the floodway area that would
result in any increase in the base flood elevation. Consideration of the
effects of any development on the flood levels shall be based upon the
assumption that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly-
situated lands.
      4.   No development shall affect the capacity or conveyance of the
channel or floodway of any tributary to the main stream, drainage ditch, or
other drainage facility or system.
   C.   Uses Permitted: Uses are permitted and regulated in the floodplain
area, except:
      1.   Any development considered to have flood damage potential such as,
but not limited to, storage of materials and equipment, fill and a use which
could obstruct flood flows is prohibited.
      2.   Encroachment by fill is prohibited.
      3.   The erection of a new structure, the expansion of an existing
building, or the placement of a structure is prohibited.
   D.   Watercourse Alterations: Watercourse alterations or relocations
(channel changes and modifications) must be designed to maintain the flood-
carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion. In addition, such
alterations or relocations must be approved by the Department of Natural
Resources.
   E.   Stream Crossings: Pipeline river or stream crossings shall be buried in
the stream bed and banks or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent rupture
due to channel degradation and meandering or due to the action of flood flows.
   F.   Site Requirements: Conformance to all zoning regulations in regard to
area, width, and yards is required. (2008 Code app. C art. V; amd. Ord. 02-14,
2-18-2014; Ord. 03-21, 2-16-2021; Ord. 07-24, 2-20-2024)
13-1-13: AMENDMENTS:
The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may from time to time
be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed. No amendment, supplement,
change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval of the
Department of Natural Resources. (2008 Code app. C art. VII; amd. Ord. 03-21,
2-16-2021; Ord. 07-24, 2-20-2024)
13-1-14: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may
be increased by manmade or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings
restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside the
regulated areas or that uses permitted within the regulated areas will be free
from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the
part of Bettendorf or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages
that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder. (2008 Code app. C art. III; amd. Ord. 03-21, 2-16-
2021; Ord. 07-24, 2-20-2024)
13-1-15: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes
greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All
ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of
the inconsistency only. (2008 Code app. C art. III; amd. Ord. 03-21, 2-16-2021;
Ord. 07-24, 2-20-2024)
13-1-16: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS:
Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this
chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this code. Nothing herein contained shall prevent Bettendorf or a
citizen from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation. (2008 Code app. C art. VI; amd. 2015 Code; amd. Ord. 03-
21, 2-16-2021; Ord. 07-24, 2-20-2024)
13-1-17: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, clause, provision or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this chapter shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 03-21, 2-16-2021; Ord. 07-
24, 2-20-2024)
