CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE
CITY OF CARTER LAKE, IOWA
Adopted March 17, 2025, by Ordinance No. 695
Prepared By:   Local Government Professional Services, Inc.
DBA Iowa Codification
P. O. Box 244
114 E 5 th Street
Storm Lake, Iowa 50588
(641) 355-4072
www.sc-ic.com
SUPPLEMENT RECORD
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date     Subject
Jul-25    Ch. 75                  691      11-18-24 All-Terrain Vehicles and
                                                    Snowmobiles
          Ch. 77                  692      12-18-24 Golf Carts
          18.05                   693      12-18-24 Publications
          5.06                    694      12-16-24 Meetings
                                  695      12-17-25 Adopting Ordinance
CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
1.01 Title                  1.08 Amendments
1.02 Definitions            1.09 Catchlines and Notes
1.03 City Powers            1.10 Altering Code
1.04 Indemnity              1.11 Severability
1.05 Personal Injuries      1.12 Warrants
1.06 Rules of Construction  1.13 General Standards for Action
1.07 Extension of Authority 1.14 Standard Penalty
 
1.01   TITLE.
This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Carter Lake, Iowa.
1.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the Code
of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council
or repugnant to the context of the provision. Other words and phrases used
herein have the following meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise in
another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or repugnant to the
context of the provision:
1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, affording
secondary means of access to abutting property.
2.   “City” means the city of Carter Lake, Iowa.
3.   “Clerk” means the city clerk of Carter Lake, Iowa.
4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code or a standard code adopted by reference).
5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of Carter
Lake, Iowa.
6.   “Council” means the city council of Carter Lake, Iowa.
7.   “County” means Pottawattamie County, Iowa.
8.   “IAC” means the Iowa Administrative Code.
9.   “May” confers a power.
10.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution, or motion.
11.   “Must” states a requirement.
12.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
13.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Carter Lake, Iowa, as
embodied in this Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance
adopting this Code of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.
14.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust, or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
15.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
16.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
17.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the edge of
the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
18.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
19.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.
20.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.
1.03   CITY POWERS.
The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if not
inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power and
perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the rights,
privileges, and property of the City and of its residents, and to preserve and
improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and convenience of its
residents, and each and every provision of this Code of Ordinances shall be
deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and the performance of the
foregoing functions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
1.04   INDEMNITY.
The applicant for any permit or license under this Code of Ordinances, by
making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising
from or related to, directly, indirectly, or remotely, the issuance of the
permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of such
applicant, or the agents, employees, or servants of such applicant, to abide by
or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Ordinances or the terms
and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by making such
application, forever agrees to indemnify the City and its officers, agents, and
employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands,
lawsuits, or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury, or death,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing.
The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any permit or
license issued under this Code of Ordinances or any other ordinance of the
City, whether expressly recited therein or not.
1.05   PERSONAL INJURIES.
When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to have
been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person by
whose negligence it claims the injury was caused. The notice shall state the
pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location of the
court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged facts from
which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person notified is
liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and asking the person
to appear and defend. A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any
action by the City against any person so notified, as to the existence of the
defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the City
to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage
or injury. The City may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the City in the suit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)
1.06   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to
ascertain the intent of the Council, with the understanding that the term
“statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.
1.07   EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate, or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.
1.08   AMENDMENTS.
All ordinances that amend, repeal, or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
1.09   CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section, and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references,
and State law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in this Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement, or clarify the contents
of a section.
1.10   ALTERING CODE.
It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code of
Ordinances in any manner that will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented.
1.11   SEVERABILITY.
If any section, provision, or part of this Code of Ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of
this Code of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof
not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
1.12   WARRANTS.
If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure, or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to enter upon or
conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an administrative
search warrant. No owner, operator or occupant, or any other person having
charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure,
building, or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search
warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.
1.13   GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
Whenever this Code of Ordinances grants any discretionary power to the Council
or any commission, board, or officer or employee of the City and does not
specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be
exercised in light of the following standard: The discretionary power to grant,
deny, or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts and
circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
1.14   STANDARD PENALTY.
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code of Ordinances for
violation of any particular provision, section, or chapter, any person failing
to perform a duty required by this Code of Ordinances or otherwise violating
any provision of this Code of Ordinances or any rule or regulation adopted
herein by reference shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of at least
$105.00 but not to exceed $855.00.† 1
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[2] and 903.1[1a])
 
Notes
1 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For civil penalty for violations of this Code of Ordinances, see
  Chapter 3.
CHAPTER 2
CHARTER
 
2.01 Title                              2.04 Number and Term of Council
2.02 Form of Government                 2.05 Term of Mayor
2.03 Powers and Duties of City Officers 2.06 Copies on File
 
2.01   TITLE.
This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Carter Lake, Iowa.† 2
 
Notes
2 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 205 adopting a charter for the City was passed and
  approved by the Council on February 3, 1975.
2.02   FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
The form of government of the City is the Mayor-Council form of government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
2.03   POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.
2.04   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council Members elected at large for overlapping
terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.05   TERM OF MAYOR.
The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.06   COPIES ON FILE.
The Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file with the official
records of the Clerk and the Secretary of State, and shall keep copies of the
charter available at the Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1[3])
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
 
3.01 Municipal Infraction    3.04 Civil Citations
3.02 Environmental Violation 3.05 Alternative Relief
3.03 Penalties               3.06 Alternative Penalties
 
3.01   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
A violation of this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance or code herein adopted
by reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by
the same, with the exception of those provisions specifically provided under
State law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious misdemeanor, or
a simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code of Iowa, is a
municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided herein.† 3
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[3])
 
Notes
3 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For criminal penalty for violations of this Code of
  Ordinances, see Section 1.14.
3.02   ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.
A municipal infraction that is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of Iowa
or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the Department of
Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an environmental violation.
However, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable until the City
has offered to participate in informal negotiations regarding the violation or
to the following specific violations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8.
2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the industrial
production or manufacturing of grain products.
3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial production
or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to January 15.
3.03   PENALTIES.
A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
1.   Standard Civil Penalties.
   A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00.
   B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00.
Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a repeat
offense.
2.   Special Civil Penalties.
   A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment
standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8, by an industrial user
is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each day a violation
exists or continues.
   B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation is
punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence.
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial startup,
cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or conducting a
shutdown of either equipment causing the violation, or the equipment designed
to reduce or eliminate the violation.
      (2)   The City is notified of the violation within 24 hours from the time
that the violation begins.
      (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more than eight
hours.
3.04   CIVIL CITATIONS.
Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code of Ordinances may issue
a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction. A copy of the
citation may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the defendant at defendant’s
last known mailing address, return receipt requested, or by publication in the
manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and subject to the
conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311. A copy of the citation shall be
retained by the issuing officer, and the original citation shall be sent to the
Clerk of the District Court. The citation shall serve as notification that a
civil offense has been committed and shall contain the following information:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[4])
1.   The name and address of the defendant.
2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.
3.   The location and time of the infraction.
4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.
5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.
6.   The time and place of court appearance.
7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.
If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to the
condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local housing
regulation violation, a housing code violation, or a public health or safety
violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District Court, the
City shall also file the citation in the office of the County Treasurer.
3.05   ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. Such
alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for abatement
or injunctive relief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[9])
3.06   ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES.
This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal citation
for a violation of this Code of Ordinances or regulation if criminal penalties
are also provided for the violation. Nor does it preclude or limit the
authority of the City to enforce the provisions of this Code of Ordinances by
criminal sanctions or other lawful means.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[12])
CHAPTER 4
BOUNDARIES
4.01   VOTING PRECINCTS.
The City is divided into two voting precincts described as follows:
1.   Precinct 1. Precinct 1 includes all that part of the City contained within
the following described area:
Beginning at the intersection of Avenue P and Ninth Street; thence south along
Ninth Street and then south along the line of Ninth Street extended to the
Canadian National Railway tracks; thence west along the Canadian National
Railway tracks to the corporate limits of Carter Lake; thence following along
the corporate limits of the Carter Lake, Iowa, generally northwesterly, north,
northeasterly, easterly, south easterly, then south to a point where the line
of Avenue Q extended would intersect the Carter Lake corporate limits; thence
west along that line and then along Avenue Q to 15th Street; thence south along
15th Street to Avenue P; thence west on Avenue P to the point of beginning.
2.   Precinct 2. Precinct 2 includes all that part of the City contained within
the following described area:
Beginning at the intersection of Avenue P and Ninth Street; thence east on
Avenue P to 15th Street, thence north on 15th Street to Avenue Q; thence east
on avenue Q and then the line of Avenue Q extended to the Carter Lake corporate
limits; thence following the corporate limits of Carter Lake generally south,
southwesterly, southeasterly, southwesterly, and then northwesterly to the
west-most intersection of the Canadian National Railway tracks and the Carter
Lake corporate limits; then east along the Canadian National Railway tracks to
the line of Ninth Street extended; thence north along said line and then along
Ninth Street to the point of beginning.
CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES
 
5.01 Oaths                 5.07 Conflict of Interest
5.02 Bonds                 5.08 Resignations
5.03 Powers and Duties     5.09 Removal of Appointed Officers and Employees
5.04 Books and Records     5.10 Vacancies
5.05 Transfer to Successor 5.11 Gifts
5.06 Meetings              5.12 Time and Distance Employment Requirement
 
5.01   OATHS.
The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:
1.   Qualify for Office. Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify for
office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a bond. The
oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after such officer is certified as
elected but not later than noon of the first day that is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday in January of the first year of the term for which the officer
was elected.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)
2.   Prescribed Oath. The prescribed oath is: “I, (name), do solemnly swear
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and impartially, to the best
of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of (name of office) in
__________ as now or hereafter required by law.”
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)
3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths. The following are empowered to
administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:
   A.   Mayor.
   B.   City Clerk.
   C.   Members of all boards, commissions, or bodies created by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)
5.02   BONDS.
Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:
1.   Required. The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond or
blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, Clerk,
Treasurer, and such other officers and employees as may be necessary and
advisable except as allowed in Subsection 5.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)
2.   Bonds Approved. Bonds shall be approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)
3.   Bonds Filed. All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be filed
with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23(6))
4.   Record. The Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the “Record of
Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all City
officers, elective or appointive.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24(1)(a))
5.   Insurance Policy in Lieu of Bond. In lieu of a bond, a public officer
required to obtain a bond pursuant to Chapter 64 of the Code of Iowa may obtain
an insurance policy in an amount not less than the amounts required of a bond.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.3)
5.03   POWERS AND DUTIES.
Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code of Ordinances, or as otherwise directed by the
Council unless contrary to State law or City charter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
5.04   BOOKS AND RECORDS.
All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open to
examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of law
expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept confidential.
Access to public records that are combined with data processing software shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 and 22.3A)
5.05   TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.
Each officer shall transfer to his or her successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents and property in the officer’s custody and
appertaining to that office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
5.06   MEETINGS.
All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be held
in accordance with the following:
1.   Definitions. The following terms are defined for use in this section.
   A.   “Closed session” means a meeting to which all members of the public do
not have access as allowed by Section 21.5 of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   “Hybrid meeting” means a meeting involving both remote participation
and in-person participation by members.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(a))
   C.   “Open session” means a meeting to which all members of the public have
access.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.2(3))
   D.   “Remote participation” means real-time participation by a remotely
located individual in a meeting which is being held in a different physical
location using integrated audio, video, and other digital tools.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(b))
   E.   “Reasonable notice” means advertising the news media who have filed a
request for notice with the governmental body and posting the notice on a
bulletin board or other prominent place which is easily accessible to the
public and clearly designated for that purpose at the principal office of the
body holding the meeting, or if not such office exists, at the building in
which the meeting is to be held.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4(1)(a))
   F.   “Teleconference participation” means participation using audio
conference tools involving multiple participants in at least two separate
locations.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(c))
   G.   “Virtual meeting” means a meeting involving real-time interaction using
integrated audio, video, and other digital tools, in which participants to not
share a physical location.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(d))
2.   Notice of Meetings. Reasonable notice of the time, date, and place of each
meeting and its tentative agenda shall be given by posting in the following
locations in compliance with Iowa law:
   A.   City Hall on the designated bulletin boards, exterior and interior.
   B.   The official City of Carter Lake, Iowa website.
   C.   City Hall email list; and
   D.   Carter Lake Community Center designated bulletin board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)
3.   Meetings Open. All meetings shall be held in open session unless closed
sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3(1))
4.   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time, and
place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting. The minutes
shall show the results of each vote taken and information sufficient to
indicate the vote of each member present. The vote of each member present shall
be made public at the open session. The minutes shall be public records open to
public inspection. Minutes shall be made available to the Council within
fifteen (15) days of the corresponding meeting.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3(2))
5.   Closed Session. A closed session may be held only by affirmative public
vote of either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the
meeting and in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)
6.   Cameras and Recorders. The public may use cameras or recording devices at
any open session so long as the public users comply with the reasonable rules
and requirements the City may and enforce to prevent cameras and recording
devices from interfering or interrupting the City’s meetings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
7.   Electronic Meetings. A governmental body shall provide for hybrid
meetings, teleconference participation, virtual meetings, remote participation,
and other hybrid options for the members of the governmental body to
participate in official meetings. A governmental body conducting a meeting
pursuant to this subsection shall comply with all of the provisions of Chapter
21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)
(Section 5.06 – Ord. 694 – Jul. 25 Supp.)
5.07   CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect, in
any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services to
be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law. A
contract entered into in violation of this section is void. The provisions of
this section do not apply to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)
1.   Compensation of Officers. The payment of lawful compensation of a City
officer or employee holding more than one City office or position, the holding
of which is not incompatible with another public office or is not prohibited by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(a))
2.   Investment of Funds. The designation of a bank or trust company as a
depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(b))
3.   City Treasurer. An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves as
Treasurer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(c))
4.   Stock Interests. Contracts in which a City officer or employee has an
interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in Subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract. The competitive bid qualification
of this subsection does not apply to a contract for professional services not
customarily awarded by competitive bid.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(e))
5.   Newspaper. The designation of an official newspaper.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(f))
6.   Existing Contracts. A contract in which a City officer or employee has an
interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or employee was
elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(g))
7.   Volunteers. Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(h))
8.   Corporations. A contract with a corporation in which a City officer or
employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or immediate
family of such officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(i))
9.   Contracts. Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in writing,
publicly invited and opened.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(d))
10.   Cumulative Purchases. Contracts not otherwise permitted by this section,
for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or employee,
if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed a cumulative
total purchase price of $6,000.00 in a fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(j))
11.   Franchise Agreements. Franchise agreements between the City and a utility
and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential City
utility services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(k))
12.   Third Party Contracts. A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the City
but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not be the
original underwriter, purchaser, or obligee of the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(l))
5.08   RESIGNATIONS.
An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a resignation
in writing to the Clerk so that it shall be properly recorded and considered. A
person who resigns from an elective office is not eligible for appointment to
the same office during the time for which the person was elected if, during
that time, the compensation of the office has been increased.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(9))
5.09   REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order. The order shall
give the reasons, be filed in the office of the Clerk, and a copy shall be sent
by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request filed with the Clerk
within 30 days after the date of mailing the copy, shall be granted a public
hearing before the Council on all issues connected with the removal. The
hearing shall be held within 30 days after the date the request is filed unless
the person removed requests at a later date.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)
5.10   VACANCIES.
A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled in
accordance with Section 372.13(2) of the Code of Iowa.
5.11   GIFTS.
Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or series
of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a restricted
donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly with one or
more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of gifts to a
public official, public employee, or candidate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)
5.12   TIME AND DISTANCE EMPLOYMENT REQUIREMENT.
To ensure the safe and efficient delivery of City services, each City
department shall assess the needs and demands of their department and shall
establish a time and distance policy for the employees in their department. In
developing the department policy, the department shall work in concert with the
Mayor’s office. Any policy adopted under this section shall be made a part of
the City’s employee handbook and can only be modified with the concurrence of
the Mayor.
CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS
 
6.01 Nominating Method to Be Used 6.04 Preparation of Petition and Affidavit
6.02 Nominations by Petition      6.05 Filing; Presumption; Withdrawals;
                                  Objections
6.03 Adding Name by Petition      6.06 Persons Elected
 
6.01   NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.
All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 45 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)
6.02   NOMINATIONS BY PETITION.
Nominations for elective municipal offices of the City may be made by
nomination paper or papers signed by not less than 25 eligible electors,
residents of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.1)
6.03   ADDING NAME BY PETITION.
The name of a candidate placed upon the ballot by any other method than by
petition shall not be added by petition for the same office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.2)
6.04   PREPARATION OF PETITION AND AFFIDAVIT.
Nomination papers shall include a petition and an affidavit of candidacy. The
petition and affidavit shall be substantially in the form prescribed by the
State Commissioner of Elections, shall include information required by the Code
of Iowa, and shall be signed in accordance with the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.3, 45.5, and 45.6)
6.05   FILING; PRESUMPTION; WITHDRAWALS; OBJECTIONS.
The time and place of filing nomination petitions, the presumption of validity
thereof, the right of a candidate so nominated to withdraw and the effect of
such withdrawal, and the right to object to the legal sufficiency of such
petitions, or to the eligibility of the candidate, shall be governed by the
appropriate provisions of Chapter 44 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.4)
6.06   PERSONS ELECTED.
The candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for each office on the
ballot are elected, to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8[3])
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
 
7.01 Purpose         7.05 Operating Budget Preparation
7.02 Finance Officer 7.06 Budget Amendments
7.03 Cash Control    7.07 Accounting
7.04 Fund Control    7.08 Financial Reports
 
7.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules and
regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.
7.02   FINANCE OFFICER.
The Clerk is the finance and accounting officer of the City and is responsible
for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
7.03   CASH CONTROL.
To assure the proper accounting and safe custody of moneys the following shall
apply:
1.   Deposit of Funds. All moneys or fees collected for any purpose by any City
officer shall be deposited through the office of the finance officer. If any
said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the officer by check
drawn by the finance officer and approved by the Council only upon such
officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as required by law,
ordinance, or Council directive.
2.   Deposits and Investments. All moneys belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State law,
including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, and 12C.1)
3.   Petty Cash Fund. The finance officer shall be custodian of a petty cash
fund for the payment of small claims for minor purchases, collect-on-delivery
transportation charges, and small fees customarily paid at the time of
rendering a service, for which payments the finance officer shall obtain some
form of receipt or bill acknowledged as paid by the vendor or agent. At such
time as the petty cash fund is approaching depletion, the finance officer shall
draw a check for replenishment in the amount of the accumulated expenditures
and said check and supporting detail shall be submitted to the Council as a
claim in the usual manner for claims and charged to the proper funds and
accounts. It shall not be used for salary payments or other personal services
or personal expenses.
7.04   FUND CONTROL.
There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following:
1.   Revenues. All moneys received by the City shall be credited to the proper
fund as required by law, ordinance, or resolution.
2.   Expenditures. No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance, or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council.
3.   Emergency Fund. No transfer may be made from any fund to the Emergency
Fund.
(545 IAC 2.5[2])
4.   Debt Service Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by State law,
moneys may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service Fund to
meet payments of principal and interest. Such transfers must be authorized by
the original budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5[3])
5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by
State law, moneys may be transferred from any City fund to the Capital
Improvements Reserve Fund. Such transfers must be authorized by the original
budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5[4])
6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds. A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise Fund
may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund, by
resolution of the Council. A surplus may exist only after all required
transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in accordance with the
terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan agreements relating to the
Utility or Enterprise Fund. A surplus is defined as the cash balance in the
operating account or the unrestricted net position calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, after adding back the net
pension and other postemployment benefits, liabilities, and the related
deferred inflows of resources and deducting the related deferred outflows of
resources, in excess of:
   A.   The amount of the expenses of disbursements for operating and
maintaining the utility or enterprise for the preceding three months; and
   B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to restricted
accounts for the succeeding three months.
(545 IAC 2.5[5])
7.   Balancing of Funds. Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close of each
month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.
7.05   OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION.
The annual operating budget of the City shall be prepared in accordance with
the following:
1.   Proposal Prepared. The finance officer is responsible for preparation of
the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council and adoption by
the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and Council.
2.   Boards and Commissions. All boards, commissions, and other administrative
agencies of the City that are authorized to prepare and administer budgets must
submit their budget proposals to the finance officer for inclusion in the
proposed City budget at such time and in such form as required by the Council.
3.   Submission to Council. The finance officer shall submit the completed
budget proposal to the Council each year at such time as directed by the
Council.
4.   4.   Annual Statement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 24.2A(2))
   A.   On or before 4:00 p.m. on March 5 of each year, the City shall file,
with the Department of Management, a report containing all necessary
information for the Department of Management to compile and calculate amounts
required to be included in the statement mailed under Paragraph B.
   B.   Not later than March 15, the County Auditor, using information compiled
and calculated by the Department of Management shall send to each property
owner or taxpayer within the County, by regular mail, an individual statement
containing all of the required information as provided under Section 24.2(2)(B)
(1-10) of the Code of Iowa.
   C.   The Department of Management shall prescribe the form for the report
required under Paragraph A, the statements to be mailed under Paragraph B, and
the public hearing notice required under Paragraph D.
   D.   The Council shall set a time and place for a public hearing on the
City’s proposed property tax amount for the budget year and the City’s
information included in the statements under Paragraph B. The proposed property
tax hearing shall be set on a date on or after March 20 of the budget year
immediately preceding the budget year for which the tax is being proposed. At
the hearing, the Council shall receive oral or written testimony from any
resident or property owner of the City. This public hearing shall be separate
from any other meeting of the Council, including any other meeting or public
hearing relating to the City’s budget, and other business of the City that is
not related to the proposed property tax amounts and the information in the
statements shall not be conducted at the public hearing. After all testimony
has been received and considered, the governing body may decrease, but not
increase, the proposed property tax amount to be included in the City’s budget.
      (1)   Notice of the public hearing shall be published not less than 10
nor more than 20 days prior to the hearing, in a newspaper published at least
once weekly and having general circulation in the City. However, if the City
has a population of 200 or less, publication may be made by posting in three
public places in the City.
      (2)   Notice of the hearing shall also be posted and clearly identified
on the City’s internet site for public viewing beginning on the date of the
newspaper publication and shall be maintained on the City’s internet site with
all such prior year notices.
      (3)   Additionally, if the City maintains a social media account on one
or more social media applications, the public hearing notice or an electronic
link to the public hearing notice shall be posted on each such account on a
date no later than the date of publication of the notice.
      (4)   Failure of a newspaper to publish a required notice under this
paragraph shall not be considered a failure of a political subdivision to
provide required notice under this paragraph if all of the following conditions
are met:
         a.   Notice of the public hearing was provided to each property owner
and each taxpayer within the political subdivision in statements required under
Section 24.2A(2)(b) of the Code of Iowa.
         b.   The political subdivision can demonstrate to the county auditor
that the political subdivision provided sufficient time for the newspaper to
publish the notice.
5.   Council Review. The Council shall review the proposed budget and may make
any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting such
proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.
6.   Notice of Hearing. Following, and not until the requirements, of
Subsection 4 of this section, are completed, the Council shall set a time and
place for public hearing on the budget to be held before April 30 and shall
publish notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days before the
hearing. A summary of the proposed budget and a description of the procedure
for protesting the City budget under Section 384.19 of the Code of Iowa, in the
form prescribed by the Director of the Department of Management, shall be
included in the notice.  Proof of publication of the notice under
this subsection must be filed with the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16(3))
7.   Copies of Budget on File. Not less than 20 days before the date that the
budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less than 10 days before
the public hearing, the Clerk shall make available a sufficient number of
copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of taxpayers and
organizations, and have them available for distribution at the offices of the
Mayor and Clerk and at the City library.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16(2))
8.   Adoption and Certification. After the hearing, the Council shall adopt, by
resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the Clerk shall
certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal year to the County Auditor
and the County Board of Supervisors. The tax levy certified may be less than,
but not more than, the amount estimated in the proposed budget submitted at the
final hearing, unless an additional tax levy is approved at a City election.
Two copies each of the detailed budget as adopted and of the tax certificate
must be transmitted to the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16(5))
7.06   BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes effective
July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and purpose
specified therein until amended as provided by this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)
1.   Program Increase. Any increase in the amount appropriated to a program
must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as the
original budget.
(545 IAC 2.2)
2.   Program Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as
the original budget.
(545 IAC 2.3)
3.   Activity Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one activity to
another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council.
(545 IAC 2.4)
4.   Administrative Transfers. The finance officer shall have the authority to
adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval.
(545 IAC 2.4)
7.07   ACCOUNTING.
The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:
1.   Books of Original Entry. There shall be established and maintained books
of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received and
disbursed.
2.   General Ledger. There shall be established and maintained a general ledger
controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for recording
unappropriated surpluses.
3.   Checks. Two signatures are required on all City checks. Checks shall be
prenumbered and signed by any two of the following: Clerk and Mayor (or
authorized bank signature as set by resolution), following Council approval,
except as provided by Subsection 5 hereof.
4.   Budget Accounts. There shall be established such individual accounts to
record receipts by source and expenditures by program and activity as will
provide adequate information and control for budgeting purposes as planned and
approved by the Council. Each individual account shall be maintained within its
proper fund and so kept that receipts can be immediately and directly compared
with revenue estimates, and expenditures can be related to the authorizing
appropriation. No expenditure shall be posted except to the appropriation for
the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
5.   Immediate Payment Authorized. The Council may by resolution authorize the
Clerk to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts due, which if not paid
promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for late payment or
additional interest cost. Any such payments made shall be reported to the
Council for review and approval with and in the same manner as other claims at
the next meeting following such payment. The resolution authorizing immediate
payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized and may include (but is
not limited to) payment of utility bills, contractual obligations, payroll, and
bond principal and interest.
7.08   FINANCIAL REPORTS.
The finance officer shall prepare and file the following financial reports:
1.   Monthly Reports. There shall be submitted to the Council each month a
report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program, and
activity for the preceding month.
2.   Annual Report. Not later than December 1 of each year there shall be
published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal year
of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit of
the City for the current fiscal year. The Annual Financial Report shall be
prepared on forms and pursuant to instructions prescribed by the Auditor of
State. Beginning with the Annual Financial Report published by December 1,
2025, each report shall include a list of bonds, notes, or other obligations
issued by the City during the most recently completed fiscal year, and the
applicable lists for other fiscal years beginning on or after July 1, 2024, for
which obligations remain unpaid, payable from any source, including the amount
of the issuance, the project or purpose of the issuance, whether the issuance
was approved at election, eligible to be subject to a petition for an election,
or was exempt from approval at election as the result of statutory exclusions
based on population of the City or amount of the issuance, and identification
of issuances from the fiscal year or prior fiscal years related to the same
project or purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)
CHAPTER 10
URBAN RENEWAL
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED           NAME OF AREA
501           August 5, 1997    Carter Lake Urban Renewal Project Area No. 1
512           December 15, 1998 Carter Lake Urban Renewal Project Area No. 2
513           December 15, 1998 Carter Lake Urban Renewal Project Area No. 3
553           March 30, 2004    Carter Lake Urban Renewal Project Area No. 4
594           August 20, 2007   Carter Lake Urban Renewal Area
605           March 17, 2008    Carter Lake Urban Renewal Project Area No. 6
612           August 17, 2009   Carter Lake Urban Renewal Project Area No. 5
654           December 5, 2016  Carter Lake Urban Renewal Project Area No. 5
 
CHAPTER 11
URBAN REVITALIZATION
 
11.01 Designation of Revitalization 11.03 Restoration to Revitalization Area
Area
11.02 Special Tax Consequences      11.04 Urban Revitalization Ordinances
 
11.01   DESIGNATION OF REVITALIZATION AREA.
In addition to areas already designated as revitalization areas, and in
accordance with Chapter 404 of the Code of Iowa, the following areas are
designated as a redevelopment and revitalization area pursuant to said Chapter
404: (Legal descriptions on file with Clerk). The entire City encompassed by
the corporate limits of the City, excluding any commercial, manufacturing, and
industrial zones, and excluding what is commonly referred to as the Shoreline
Development and what is commonly referred to as the Shoals Development.
11.02   SPECIAL TAX CONSEQUENCES.
Special tax consequences are available for development within said areas
pursuant to the terms of Chapter 404 of the Code of Iowa based upon prior
approval of the plan or design and request made to and approved by the Council
as required by statute. This shall include property designated as “qualified
real estate” as defined in Section 404.3(7) of the Code of Iowa. A minimum
increase of actual value must be at least 15 percent over and above the value
of the property at the time the property was in the area designated as urban
revitalization, without regard to whether or not there are existing structures
on said property. The basis of the tax exemption, if any, shall be governed by
Section 404.3(2-3) of the Code of Iowa.
11.03   RESTORATION TO REVITALIZATION AREA.
The following area is hereby added to the tax revitalization district in the
City. Properties within that development are hereby now entitled to tax
benefits defined herein:
Lots 1 through 181, inclusive, Adams Park, a subdivision as surveyed, platted
and recorded in the Pottawattamie County, Iowa, together with those parts of
Silver Lane, Avenue “P,” 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th Streets adjacent thereto, all
more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the NE corner of Lot 1, said Adams Park;
Thence S00’03’31”W (assumed bearing) 802.47 feet on the easterly line of said
Adams Park and its southerly extension to the southerly line of Silver Lane;
Thence N89’42’12”W 150.13 feet on the southerly line of Silver Lane to the NE
corner of Lot 135, said Adams Park;
Thence S00’01’53”W 149.00 feet on the easterly line of said Lot 135 to the SE
corner thereof;
Thence N89’40’22”W 1140.90 feet on the southerly line of said Adams Park to the
SW corner thereof;
Thence north 1635.89 feet on the westerly line of said Adams Park to the NW
corner thereof;
Thence S88’34’03”E 635.55 feet on the northerly line of said Adams Park to the
NE corner of Lot 176, said Adams Park;
ThenceS00’06’46”W 279.79 feet on the easterly line of said Adams Park to the SE
corner of Lot 180, said Adams Park;
Thence N88’30’00”W 137.81 feet on the southerly line of said Lot 180 to the SW
corner thereof;
Thence S00’06’55”W 160.04 feet on the easterly line of said Adams Park to the
NW corner of Lot 181, said Adams Park;
Thence S88’29’57”E 137.82 feet on the northerly line of said Lot 181 to the NE
corner thereof;
Thence S00’06’46”W 79.80 feet on the easterly line of said Lot 181 to the SE
corner thereof;
Thence N88’33’18”W 137.82 feet on the southerly line of said Lot 181 to the SW
corner thereof;
Thence S00’06’55”W 80.00 feet on the easterly line of said Adams Park to the SE
corner of Lot 166, said Adams Park;
Thence S88’35’01”E 137.82 feet on the northerly line of Avenue “P;”
Thence S00’06’46”W 5.00 feet;
Thence southeasterly on a 56.26 foot radius curve to the left, chord bearing
S44’14’07”E, chord distance 78.66 feet, an arc distance of 87.10 feet to the
northerly line of said Adams Park;
Thence S88’35’01”E 603.06 feet on the northerly line of said Adams Park to the
point of beginning.
11.04   URBAN REVITALIZATION ORDINANCES.
 
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted designating Urban Revitalization Areas in the City
and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED           NAME OF AREA
496           April 10, 1996    Entire City of Carter Lake
500           July 1, 1997      Removes and Withdraws 18 Acres Described in
                                Ordinance
516           October 19, 1999  Urban Revitalization Plant No. 1
531           December 18, 2001 Amendment Exempting Coronado Keys
CHAPTER 15
MAYOR
 
15.01 Term of Office    15.03 Appointments
15.02 Powers and Duties 15.04 Compensation
 
15.01   TERM OF OFFICE.
The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
15.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:
1.   Chief Executive Officer. Act as the chief executive officer of the City
and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the City,
give direction to department heads concerning the functions of the departments,
and have the power to examine all functions of the municipal departments, their
records and to call for special reports from department heads at any time.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
2.   Proclamation of Emergency. Have authority to take command of the police
and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that a time of
emergency or public danger exists. Within the City limits, the Mayor has all
the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[2])
3.   Special Meetings. Call special meetings of the Council when the Mayor
deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
4.   Mayor’s Veto. Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance, amendment, or
resolution passed by the Council. The Mayor may veto an ordinance, amendment,
or resolution within 14 days after passage. The Mayor shall explain the reasons
for the veto in a written message to the Council at the time of the veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 and 380.6[2])
5.   Reports to Council. Make such oral or written reports to the Council as
required. These reports shall concern municipal affairs generally, the
municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for Council action.
6.   Negotiations. Represent the City in all negotiations properly entered into
in accordance with law or ordinance. The Mayor shall not represent the City
where this duty is specifically delegated to another officer by law, ordinance,
or Council direction.
7.   Contracts. Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on behalf of
the City.
8.   Professional Services. Upon order of the Council, secure for the City such
specialized and professional services not already available to the City. In
executing the order of the Council, the Mayor shall act in accordance with this
Code of Ordinances and the laws of the State.
9.   Licenses and Permits. Sign all licenses and permits that have been granted
by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be issued by
another municipal officer.
10.   Nuisances. Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.
11.   Absentee Officer. Make appropriate provision that duties of any absentee
officer be carried on during such absence.
15.03   APPOINTMENTS.
 
1.   The Mayor shall appoint the following officials:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
   A.   Mayor Pro Tem.
   B.   Police Chief.
2.   The Mayor shall recommend the appointment of the following officials for
Council approval:
   A.   Building Official.
   B.   Carter Lake Parks and Recreation Board.
   C.   Carter Lake Prevention Coalition.
   D.   Library Board of Trustees.
   E.   Planning and Zoning Commission.
   F.   Urban Renewal Commission.
   G.   Weed Official.
   H.   Zoning Board of Adjustment.
15.04   COMPENSATION.
The salary of the Mayor is $24,000.00 per year, paid in equal monthly
installments.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM
 
16.01 Vice President of Council 16.03 Voting Rights
16.02 Powers and Duties         16.04 Compensation
 
16.01   VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem shall
perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the Mayor
to perform such duties. In the exercise of the duties of the office the Mayor
Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ, or discharge from employment
officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint, employ, or
discharge without the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.03   VOTING RIGHTS.
The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.04   COMPENSATION.
If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of 15 days or more, the Mayor Pro
Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined by the Council,
based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s duties and upon the
compensation of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL
 
17.01 Number and Term of Council 17.04 Council Meetings
17.02 Powers and Duties          17.05 Appointments
17.03 Exercise of Power          17.06 Compensation
 
17.01   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council members elected at large for overlapping
terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 and 376.2)
17.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:
1.   General. All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
2.   Fiscal Authority. The Council shall apportion and appropriate all funds,
and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls, and claims, and order
payment thereof. It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers, and other work, improvement, or repairs that
may be specially assessed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1], 384.16, and 384.38[1])
3.   Public Improvements. The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
4.   Contracts. The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts. No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 26)
5.   Employees. The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number, duties,
term of office, and compensation of employees or officers not otherwise
provided for by State law or the Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
6.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers. By ordinance, the Council shall
prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and other elected
City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor does not become
effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and the Council shall
not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any elected officer
during the months of November and December in the year of a regular City
election. A change in the compensation of Council members becomes effective for
all Council members at the beginning of the term of the Council members elected
at the election next following the change in compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
17.03   EXERCISE OF POWER.
The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[1])
1.   Action by Council. Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or resolution
requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council. Passage of a
motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council. A resolution must
be passed to spend public funds in excess of $100,000.00 on a public
improvement project, or to accept public improvements and facilities upon their
completion. Each Council member’s vote on a measure must be recorded. A measure
that fails to receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered
defeated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)
2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto. Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all
of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
3.   Measures Become Effective. Measures passed by the Council become effective
in one of the following ways:
   A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective when
the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1a])
   B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately upon
signing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1b])
   C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the motion by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1c])
   D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment, or resolution and the
Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes
effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a
law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
   E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment, or resolution,
a resolution becomes effective 14 days after the date of passage, and an
ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a summary of the
ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the date of passage,
unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[3])
“All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the Council
including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but does not
include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason of a
conflict of interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1[a])
17.04   COUNCIL MEETINGS.
Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section 5.06 of this
Code of Ordinances. Additional particulars relating to Council meetings are the
following:
1.   Regular Meetings. The time and place of the regular meetings of the
Council shall be fixed by resolution of the Council.
2.   Special Meetings. Special meetings shall be held upon call of the Mayor or
upon the request of a majority of the members of the Council submitted to the
Clerk. Notice of a special meeting shall specify the date, time, place and
subject of the meeting and such notice shall be given personally by a telephone
call to each member of the Council, with a copy of the written notice left in
the Council’s mailbox that is maintained at City Hall. A record of the service
of notice shall be maintained by the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
3.   Quorum. A majority of all Council members is a quorum.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[1])
4.   Rules of Procedure. The Council shall determine its own rules and maintain
records of its proceedings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
5.   Compelling Attendance. Any three members of the Council can compel the
attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned, or duly called
meeting, by serving a written notice upon the absent members to attend at once.
17.05   APPOINTMENTS.
1.   The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their
powers, duties, compensation, and term of office:
   A.   Animal Appeal Panel.
   B.   City Attorney.
   C.   City Clerk.
1.   2.   The Council shall appoint the following officials and board and
commission members following a recommendation from the Mayor:
   A.   Building Official.
   B.   Carter Lake Parks and Recreation Board.
   C.   Carter Lake Prevention Coalition.
   D.   Library Board of Trustees.
   E.   Planning and Zoning Commission.
   F.   Urban Renewal Commission.
   G.   Weed Official.
   H.   Zoning Board of Adjustment.
3.   The Council shall appoint members of the Police Department other than the
Police Chief, subject to the recommendation of the Police Chief.
17.06   COMPENSATION.
The salary of each Council member is $4,800.00 annually, paid in equal monthly
installments.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 18
CITY CLERK
 
18.01 Appointment and Compensation 18.08 Records
18.02 Powers and Duties: General   18.09 Attendance at Meetings
18.03 Publication of Minutes       18.10 Licenses and Permits
18.04 Recording Measures           18.11 Notification of Appointments
18.05 Other Publications           18.12 Elections
18.06 Authentication               18.13 City Seal
18.07 Certification
18.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
At its first meeting in January following the regular City election, the
Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Clerk to serve for a term of two
years. The Clerk shall receive such compensation as established by resolution
of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3])
18.02   POWERS AND DUTIES: GENERAL.
The Clerk (or, in the Clerk’s absence or inability to act, the Deputy Clerk)
has the powers and duties as provided in this chapter, this Code of Ordinances,
and the law.
18.03   PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.
Within 15 days following a regular or special meeting of the Council, the Clerk
shall cause the minutes of the proceedings of the Council, including the total
expenditure from each City fund, to be delivered to a newspaper of general
circulation in the City for publication. The publication shall include a list
of all claims allowed and a summary of all receipts and shall show the gross
amount of the claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[6])
18.04   RECORDING MEASURES.
The Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by the Council and
record a statement with the measure, where applicable, indicating whether the
Mayor signed, vetoed, or took no action on the measure, and whether the measure
was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[1 and 2])
18.05   OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
The Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances, enactments, proceedings,
and official notices requiring publication as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
1.   Time. If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action is
required by this Code of Ordinances or law, the notice must be published at
least once, not less than four or more than 20 days before the date of the
election, hearing, or other action, unless otherwise provided by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3(1)(a))
2.   Manner of Publication. A publication required by this Code of Ordinances
or law must be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and having general
circulation in the City, except that ordinances and amendments may be published
by posting in the following places in compliance with Iowa law:
City Hall on a designated bulletin board, exterior and interior
Official City of Carter Lake, Iowa website
City Hall emails
Carter Lake Community Center on a designated location
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3(1)(b))
The Clerk is hereby directed to post promptly such ordinances and amendments,
and to leave them so posted for not less than 10 days after the first date of
posting. Unauthorized removal of the posted ordinance or amendment prior to the
completion of the 10 days shall not affect the validity of said ordinance or
amendment. The Clerk shall note the first date of such posting on the official
copy of the ordinance and in the official ordinance book immediately following
the ordinance.
(Section 18.05 – Ord. 693 – Jul. 25 Supp.)
18.06   AUTHENTICATION.
The Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions with the Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and manner of publication when required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[4])
18.07   CERTIFICATION.
The Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning district, building
lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district, lines, or limits to the
recorder of the County containing the affected parts of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)
18.08   RECORDS.
The Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the following manner:
1.   Ordinances and Codes. Maintain copies of all effective City ordinances and
codes for public use.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[5])
2.   Custody. Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
3.   Maintenance. Maintain all City records and documents (or accurate
reproductions) for at least five years except that ordinances, resolutions,
Council proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions)
relating to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption, or replacement of
public bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least 11 years following the
final maturity of the bonds or obligations. Ordinances, resolutions, Council
proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions) relating to
real property transactions shall be maintained permanently.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3 and 5])
4.   Provide Copy. Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy of any
record, paper, or public document under the Clerk’s control when it may be
necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s duty; furnish a
copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set by Council
resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized officer, affix
the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments that by this Code
of Ordinances are required to be attested by the affixing of the seal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4 and 5] and 380.7[5])
5.   Filing of Communications. Keep and file all communications and petitions
directed to the Council or to the City generally. The Clerk shall endorse
thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered in such
communications and petitions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.09   ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
The Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council meetings and, at the
direction of the Council, the Clerk shall attend meetings of committees,
boards, and commissions. The Clerk shall record and preserve a correct record
of the proceedings of such meetings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.10   LICENSES AND PERMITS.
The Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when authorized by this
Code of Ordinances, and keep a record of licenses and permits issued which
shall show date of issuance, license or permit number, official receipt number,
name of person to whom issued, term of license or permit, and purpose for which
issued.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.11   NOTIFICATION OF APPOINTMENTS.
The Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or Council to offices
in the City government of their positions and the time at which they shall
assume the duties of their offices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.12   ELECTIONS.
The Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections in accordance with
Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.
18.13   CITY SEAL.
The City seal is in the custody of the Clerk and shall be attached by the Clerk
to all transcripts, orders, and certificates that it may be necessary or proper
to authenticate. The City seal is circular in form, in the center of which are
the words “SEAL” and around the margin of which are the words “CITY OF CARTER
LAKE, IOWA.”
CHAPTER 19
CITY TREASURER
 
19.01 Appointment  19.03 Duties of Treasurer
19.02 Compensation
 
19.01   APPOINTMENT.
The City Clerk is the Treasurer and performs all functions required of the
position of Treasurer.
19.02   COMPENSATION.
The Clerk receives no additional compensation for performing the duties of the
Treasurer.
19.03   DUTIES OF TREASURER.
The duties of the Treasurer are as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Custody of Funds. Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds of the
City in the manner provided by law and Council direction.
2.   Record of Fund. Keep the record of each fund separate.
3.   Record Receipts. Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received by the Treasurer on behalf of the City and specify the date, from
whom, and for what purpose received.
4.   Record Disbursements. Keep an accurate account of all disbursements,
money, or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what fund paid.
5.   Special Assessments. Keep a separate account of all money received by the
Treasurer from special assessments.
6.   Deposit Funds. Upon receipt of moneys to be held in the Treasurer’s
custody and belonging to the City, deposit the same in depositories selected by
the Council.
7.   Reconciliation. Reconcile depository statements with the Treasurer’s books
and certify monthly to the Council the balance of cash and investments of each
fund and amounts received and disbursed.
8.   Debt Service. Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record all
payments of interest and principal.
9.   Other Duties. Perform such other duties as specified by the Council by
resolution or ordinance.
CHAPTER 20
CITY ATTORNEY
 
20.01 Appointment and Compensation 20.05 Review and Comment
20.02 Attorney for City            20.06 Provide Legal Opinion
20.03 Power of Attorney            20.07 Attendance at Council Meetings
20.04 Ordinance Preparation        20.08 Prepare Documents
 
20.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Attorney to serve at the
discretion of the Council. The City Attorney shall receive such compensation as
established by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.02   ATTORNEY FOR CITY.
The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters affecting
the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any court,
tribunal, commission, or board. The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend all
actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.03   POWER OF ATTORNEY.
The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and to
all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the prosecution
of any cause in court, and when so signed the City shall be bound upon the
same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.04   ORDINANCE PREPARATION.
The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances that the Council may desire
and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such ordinances
before their final passage by the Council and publication.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.05   REVIEW AND COMMENT.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council giving an
opinion on all contracts, documents, resolutions, or ordinances submitted to or
coming under the City Attorney’s notice.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.06   PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.
The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
Mayor, Council, or Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.07   ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.08   PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts, forms,
and other writings that may be required for the use of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
CHAPTER 22
LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
 
22.01 Public Library                   22.07 Nonresident Use
22.02 Library Trustees                 22.08 Expenditures
22.03 Qualifications of Trustees       22.09 Annual Report
22.04 Organization of the Board        22.10 Injury to Books or Property
22.05 Powers and Duties                22.11 Theft
22.06 Contracting with Other Libraries 22.12 Notice Posted
 
22.01   PUBLIC LIBRARY.
The public library for the City is known as the Carter Lake Public Library. It
is referred to in this chapter as the Library.
22.02   LIBRARY TRUSTEES.
The Board of Trustees of the Library, hereinafter referred to as the Board,
consists of seven members. All members are to be appointed by the Council
following the recommendation of the Mayor.
22.03   QUALIFICATIONS OF TRUSTEES.
All members of the Board shall be bona fide citizens and residents of the City.
Members shall be over the age of 18 years.
22.04   ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD.
The organization of the Board shall be as follows:
1.   Term of Office. All appointments to the Board shall be for six years,
except to fill vacancies. Each term shall commence on July 1. Appointments
shall be made every two years of one-third the total number or as near as
possible, to stagger the terms.
2.   Vacancies. The position of any Trustee shall be vacated if such member
moves permanently from the City and shall be deemed vacated if such member is
absent from six consecutive regular meetings of the Board, except in the case
of sickness or temporary absence from the City. Vacancies in the Board shall be
filled in the same manner as an original appointment except that the new
Trustee shall fill out the unexpired term for which the appointment is made.
3.   Compensation. Trustees shall receive no compensation for their services.
22.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
1.   Officers. To meet and elect from its members a President, a Secretary, and
such other officers as it deems necessary
2.   Physical Plant. To have charge, control, and supervision of the Library,
its appurtenances, fixtures, and rooms containing the same.
3.   Charge of Affairs. To direct and control all affairs of the Library.
4.   Hiring of Personnel. To employ a Library Director, and authorize the
Library Director to employ such assistants and employees as may be necessary
for the proper management of the Library, and fix their compensation; provided,
however, prior to such employment, the compensation of the Library Director,
assistants, and employees shall have been fixed and approved by a majority of
the members of the Board voting in favor thereof.
5.   Removal of Personnel. To remove the Library Director, by a two-thirds vote
of the Board, and provide procedures for the removal of the assistants or
employees for misdemeanor, incompetence, or inattention to duty, subject
however, to the provisions of Chapter 35C of the Code of Iowa.
6.   Purchases. To select, or authorize the Library Director to select, and
make purchases of books, pamphlets, magazines, periodicals, papers, maps,
journals, other Library materials, furniture, fixtures, stationery, and
supplies for the Library within budgetary limits set by the Board.
7.   Use by Nonresidents. To authorize the use of the Library by nonresidents
and to fix charges therefor unless a contract for free service exists.
8.   Rules and Regulations. To make and adopt, amend, modify, or repeal rules
and regulations, not inconsistent with this Code of Ordinances and the law, for
the care, use, government, and management of the Library and the business of
the Board, fixing and enforcing penalties for violations.
9.   Expenditures. To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all funds
allocated for Library purposes by the Council, and of all moneys available by
gift or otherwise for the erection of Library buildings, and of all other
moneys belonging to the Library including fines and rentals collected under the
rules of the Board.
10.   Gifts. To accept gifts of real property, personal property, or mixed
property, and devises, and bequests, including trust funds; to take the title
to said property in the name of the Library; to execute deeds and bills of sale
for the conveyance of said property; and to expend the funds received by them
from such gifts, for the improvement of the Library.
11.   Enforce the Performance of Conditions on Gifts. To enforce the
performance of conditions on gifts, donations, devises, and bequests accepted
by the City by action against the Council.
12.   Record of Proceedings. To keep a record of its proceedings.
13.   County Historical Association. To have authority to make agreements with
the local County historical association where such exists, and to set apart the
necessary room and to care for such articles as may come into the possession of
the association. The Trustees are further authorized to purchase necessary
receptacles and materials for the preservation and protection of such articles
as are in their judgment of a historical and educational nature and pay for the
same out of funds allocated for Library purposes.
22.06   CONTRACTING WITH OTHER LIBRARIES.
The Board has power to contract with other libraries in accordance with the
following:
1.   Contracting. The Board may contract with any other boards of trustees of
free public libraries, with any other city, school corporation, private or
semiprivate organization, institution of higher learning, township, or County,
or with the trustees of any County library district for the use of the Library
by their respective residents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.5 and Ch. 28E)
2.   Termination. Such a contract may be terminated at any time by mutual
consent of the contracting parties. It also may be terminated by a majority
vote of the electors represented by either of the contracting parties. Such a
termination proposition shall be submitted to the electors by the governing
body of a contracting party on a written petition of not less than five percent
in number of the electors who voted for governor in the territory of the
contracting party at the last general election. The petition must be presented
to the governing body not less than 40 days before the election. The
proposition may be submitted at any election provided by law which is held in
the territory of the party seeking to terminate the contract.
22.07   NONRESIDENT USE.
The Board may authorize the use of the Library by persons not residents of the
City or County in any one or more of the following ways:
1.   Lending. By lending the books or other materials of the Library to
nonresidents on the same terms and conditions as to residents of the City, or
County, or upon payment of a special nonresident Library fee.
2.   Depository. By establishing depositories of Library books or other
materials to be loaned to nonresidents.
3.   Bookmobiles. By establishing bookmobiles or a traveling library so that
books or other Library materials may be loaned to nonresidents.
4.   Branch Library. By establishing branch libraries for lending books or
other Library materials to nonresidents.
22.08   EXPENDITURES.
All money appropriated by the Council for the operation and maintenance of the
Library shall be set aside in an account for the Library. Expenditures shall be
paid for only on orders of the Board, signed by its President and Secretary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.20 and 392.5)
22.09   ANNUAL REPORT.
The Board shall make a report to the Council immediately after the close of the
fiscal year. This report shall contain statements as to the condition of the
Library, the number of books added, the number circulated, the amount of fines
collected, and the amount of money expended in the maintenance of the Library
during the year, together with such further information as may be required by
the Council.
22.10   INJURY TO BOOKS OR PROPERTY.
It is unlawful for a person willfully, maliciously or wantonly to tear, deface,
mutilate, injure or destroy, in whole or in part, any newspaper, periodical,
book, map, pamphlet, chart, picture, or other property belonging to the Library
or reading room.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
22.11   THEFT.
No person shall take possession or control of property of the Library with the
intent to deprive the Library thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
22.12   NOTICE POSTED.
There shall be posted in clear public view within the Library notices informing
the public of the following:
1.   Failure to Return. Failure to return Library materials for two months or
more after the date the person agreed to return the Library materials, or
failure to return Library equipment for one month or more after the date the
person agreed to return the Library equipment, is evidence of intent to deprive
the owner, provided a reasonable attempt, including the mailing by restricted
certified mail of notice that such material
2.   or equipment is overdue and criminal actions will be taken, has been made
to reclaim the materials or equipment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.5)
3.   Detention and Search. Persons concealing Library materials may be detained
and searched pursuant to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 808.12)
CHAPTER 23
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
 
23.01 Planning and Zoning Commission 23.04 Compensation
23.02 Term of Office                 23.05 Powers and Duties
23.03 Vacancies
 
23.01   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
The City Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the
Commission, consists of seven members appointed by the Council. The Commission
members shall be residents of the City and shall not hold any elective office
in the City government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6 and 392.1)
23.02   TERM OF OFFICE.
The term of office of the members of the Commission shall be five years. The
terms of not more than one-third of the members will expire in any one year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.03   VACANCIES.
If any vacancy exists on the Commission, caused by resignation or otherwise, a
successor for the residue of the term shall be appointed in the same manner as
the original appointee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.04   COMPENSATION.
All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except their
actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
1.   Selection of Officers. The Commission shall choose annually at its first
regular meeting one of its members to act as Chairperson and another as Vice
Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during the
Chairperson’s absence or disability.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
2.   Adopt Rules and Regulations. The Commission shall adopt such rules and
regulations governing its organization and procedure as it may deem necessary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
3.   Zoning. The Commission shall have and exercise all the powers and duties
and privileges in establishing the City zoning regulations and other related
matters and may from time to time recommend to the Council amendments,
supplements, changes, or modifications, all as provided by Chapter 414 of the
Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6)
4.   Recommendations on Improvements. The design and proposed location of
public improvements shall be submitted to the Commission for its
recommendations prior to any actions being taken by the City for the
construction or placement of such improvements. Such requirements and
recommendations shall not act as a stay upon action for any such improvement if
the Commission, after 30 days’ written notice requesting such recommendations,
has failed to file the same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
5.   Review and Comment on Plats. All plans, plats, or re-plats of subdivisions
or re-subdivisions of land in the City or adjacent thereto, laid out in lots or
plats with the streets, alleys, or other portions of the same intended to be
dedicated to the public in the City, shall first be submitted to the Commission
and its recommendations obtained before approval by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
6.   Fiscal Responsibilities. The Commission shall have full, complete, and
exclusive authority to expend, for and on behalf of the City, all sums of money
appropriated to it and to use and expend all gifts, donations, or payments that
are received by the City for City planning and zoning purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
7.   Limitation on Entering Contracts. The Commission shall have no power to
contract debts beyond the amount of its original or amended appropriation as
approved by the Council for the present year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
8.   Annual Report. The Commission shall each year make a report to the Mayor
and Council of its proceedings, with a full statement of its receipts and
disbursements and the progress of its work during the preceding fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
CHAPTER 24
PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
 
24.01 Parks and Recreation Board Created 24.04 Appropriation
24.02 Board Organization                 24.05 Reports
24.03 Powers and Duties                  24.06 Council Approval
 
24.01   PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD CREATED.
A Parks and Recreation Board is hereby created to advise the Council on the
needed facilities to provide open space such as parks, playgrounds, and
community facilities for other forms of recreation. It shall also plan and
oversee City programs and encourage other programs to enhance the leisure time
activities of the City’s residents of all ages.
24.02   BOARD ORGANIZATION.
The Board shall consist of seven members, all residents of the City, appointed
by the Mayor with the approval of the Council, for overlapping terms of five
years. The Board shall include, in addition, two junior members, all residents
of the City aged 16 to 18 years at the time of appointment, appointed by the
Council following the recommendation of the Mayor, for terms of two years. The
Board shall annually choose from its membership a Chairperson, Vice
Chairperson, Secretary, and any other officers it deems necessary. Although not
eligible to serve as officers, junior members shall be entitled to vote.
Members shall serve without compensation but may receive reimbursement for
expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. Vacancies shall be filled
in the same manner as the original appointment for the balance of the term.
24.03   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
1.   Adopt such rules and regulations governing its organization and procedures
as it deems necessary.
2.   With prior Council approval, accept gifts of real property, personal
property, or mixed property, and devices and bequests.
3.   Keep a record of all its proceedings.
24.04   APPROPRIATION.
The Council shall provide for the annual budget for the Parks and Recreation
Department.
24.05   REPORTS.
The Parks and Recreation Director, with Board approval, shall make written
reports to the Mayor and Council of the Board’s activities from time to time,
but not less than annually.
24.06   COUNCIL APPROVAL.
Council approval or disapproval of any action of the Board shall require a two-
thirds vote of the Council.
CHAPTER 25
URBAN RENEWAL COMMISSION
 
25.01 Purpose         25.07 Liaison
25.02 Appointment     25.08 Ex-Officio Members
25.03 Qualifications  25.09 Powers and Duties
25.04 Terms of Office 25.10 Annual Report
25.05 Vacancies       25.11 Support Staff
25.06 Compensation    25.12 Appeal Rights
 
25.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the creation and appointment of
an Urban Renewal Commission for the purposes of implementing the City’s
administration of funds it receives for low- and moderate-income housing
assistance under Chapter 403 of the Code of Iowa.
25.02   APPOINTMENT.
The Urban Renewal Commission, hereinafter referred to as the Commission, shall
consist of five members. All Commission members shall be appointed by the
Council following the recommendation of the Mayor.
25.03   QUALIFICATIONS.
All of the members of the Commission shall be residents of the City and shall
be over the age of 18. If a question is raised as to residency, the
jurisdiction where the individual is registered to vote shall be the
determining factor.
25.04   TERM OF OFFICE.
All appointments to the Commission, except as provided below, shall be for a
term of four years. Each term shall commence of the first day of July. In order
to establish staggered terms, three of the initial appointments shall be for
two-year terms.
25.05   VACANCIES.
The position of a Commission member shall be deemed vacant if the member no
longer meets the qualifications set out in Section 25.03 of this chapter. Any
commissioner who misses more than three percent of the meetings in a calendar
year shall be dismissed at the request of the Mayor or upon direct action by
the Council. Vacancies on the Commission shall be filled by appointment of the
Council following the recommendation of the Mayor. Appointments made to fill
vacancies shall be for the balance of the term of the Commission member being
replaced.
25.06   COMPENSATION.
The Commissioners shall receive no compensation for their services but may be
reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
25.07   LIAISON.
The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council to act as a liaison between the
Commission and the Council. The liaison will attend the meetings of the
Commission and shall be permitted to take part in all discussions in the same
fashion as a commissioner. The liaison will not have the right to vote upon
matters before the Commission.
25.08   EX-OFFICIO MEMBERS.
The Mayor, from time to time, may appoint ex-officio members to the Commission.
Ex-officio members shall be expected to attend meetings and be available to
provide comments on issues. They will serve at the will of the Mayor and may be
added to or removed from the Commission at the Mayor’s sole discretion. Ex-
officio members have no voting powers.
25.09   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
1.   To meet and elect from its membership a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, and
such other officers deemed necessary.
2.   To establish policy and long-term goals for the funds that become
available to the City pursuant to the low- and moderate-income housing
assistance under Chapter 403 of the Code of Iowa and to implement the programs
as approved by the Council.
3.   To develop, negotiate, oversee, and award loans or grants pursuant to the
operation of the programs adopted by the Council.
4.   To make and adopt, amend, modify, or repeal rules and regulations not
inconsistent with this chapter or the laws of the City and State for
implementation and use of the programs of the funds described herein.
5.   To review the proposed budget for the program and to make recommendations
regarding its adoption by the Council.
6.   To monitor the expenditures of the funds allocated for the operation of
the programs.
25.10   ANNUAL REPORT.
The Commission shall make an annual report to the Council. This report shall
contain statements of the activities of the Commission, the annual accounting
of its finances from the previous fiscal year, and a proposed budget for the
upcoming fiscal year. This report shall be due on the first day of December and
is to be filed with the Clerk.
25.11   SUPPORT STAFF.
The Mayor shall designate and provide appropriate staff to assist the
Commission in the performance of its duties, which assistance shall be paid
from the Commission’s funds.
25.12   APPEAL RIGHTS.
Anyone who believes that a decision of the Commission was in error or incorrect
may appeal the decision to the Council. Within five working days of the
Commission’s decision, an aggrieved party wishing to appeal a decision of the
Commission shall submit a written request for a hearing before the Council
setting out the basis for the appeal. The Council shall convene to hold a
hearing within 15 working days of the request. Within 10 days of the hearing,
the Council shall render a written decision which shall be final and binding.
CHAPTER 26
CARTER LAKE PREVENTION COALITION
 
26.01 Coalition Established 26.05 Reports
26.02 Organization          26.06 No Taxing Power
26.03 Powers and Duties     26.07 Contracts
26.04 Annual Budget         26.08 Council Approval
 
26.01   COALITION ESTABLISHED.
There is hereby established the Carter Lake Prevention Coalition (Coalition),
which is created to advise the Council concerning the operation and
implementation of any grants and other funds (e.g., municipal budget) affecting
the delivery of projects, programs, events, and activities concerning the
Carter Lake Prevention Coalition programs established by the Coalition and
approved by the Council.
26.02   ORGANIZATION.
The Coalition shall consist of up to 15 but not less than 11 members, of which
a majority shall be residents of the City, appointed by the Council, following
the recommendation of the Mayor, for overlapping terms of three years. Members
shall serve without compensation but may receive reimbursement for their actual
expenses. Vacancies shall be approved in the same manner as the original
appointments.
26.03   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Coalition shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
1.   Meet and elect from its members a Chairperson, a Vice Chairperson and any
such officer as it deems necessary. The City shall act as fiscal agent for the
operation of the Coalition.
2.   Supervise and implement the policies of the Coalition relative to the
implementation of Resource Center projects, programs, events, and activities
developed by the Coalition and approved by the City.
3.   Employ persons, only with the consent of the Council, as may be necessary
for the proper management of the program and to fix said compensation subject
to the approval of the Council.
4.   Remove, subject to the approval of the Council, the employees for crimes,
incompetence, inattention to duties, or other violations of any rules of the
City.
5.   Make, adopt, amend, modify, or repeal rules and regulations or bylaws,
subject to the approval of the Council, not inconsistent with ordinances and
the law, for the care, use, management, and operation of the program.
6.   Keep a record of all of its proceedings.
7.   Take actions jointly with other public or private agencies as provided in
Section 28E of the Code of Iowa, subject to the approval of the Council.
26.04   ANNUAL BUDGET.
The Council will adopt an annual budget for the Coalition, which shall be
prepared by the Coalition and incorporated into the annual City budget.
26.05   REPORTS.
The Coalition shall make written reports to the Council of its activities from
time to time, but no less than on a quarterly basis. Its revenues and
expenditures shall be reported monthly to the Clerk and a copy shall be
provided to each member of the Coalition and to each member of the Council.
26.06   NO TAXING POWER.
The Coalition may not pledge the credit or taxing power of the City.
26.07   CONTRACTS.
No contract or written agreement in excess of $5,000.00 may be entered into by
the Coalition without the prior review and approval of the Council.
26.08   COUNCIL APPROVAL.
Council approval of any action of the Coalition shall require a majority vote
of the Council.
CHAPTER 30
POLICE DEPARTMENT
 
30.01 Department Established       30.07 Powers and Duties of Police Chief
30.02 Organization                 30.08 Departmental Rules
30.03 Peace Officer Qualifications 30.09 Summoning Aid
30.04 Required Training            30.10 Taking Weapons
30.05 Compensation                 30.11 Contract Law Enforcement
30.06 Peace Officers Appointed
 
30.01   DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
The Police Department of the City is established to provide for the
preservation of peace and enforcement of law and ordinances within the
corporate limits of the City.
30.02   ORGANIZATION.
The department consists of the Police Chief and such other law enforcement
officers and personnel, whether full or part time, as may be authorized by the
Council.
30.03   PEACE OFFICER QUALIFICATIONS.
In no case shall any person be selected or appointed as a law enforcement
officer unless such person meets the minimum qualification standards
established by the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11)
30.04   REQUIRED TRAINING.
All peace officers shall have received the minimum training required by law at
an approved law enforcement training school within one year of employment.
Peace officers shall also meet the minimum in-service training as required by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11[2])
(501 IAC 3 and 8)
30.05   COMPENSATION.
Members of the department are designated by rank and receive such compensation
as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
30.06   PEACE OFFICERS APPOINTED.
The Mayor shall appoint and dismiss the Police Chief. The Police Chief shall
select, subject to the approval of Council, the other members of the
department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
30.07   POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.
The Police Chief has the following powers and duties subject to the approval of
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   General. Perform all duties required of the Police Chief by law or
ordinance.
2.   Enforce Laws. Enforce all laws, ordinances, and regulations and bring all
persons committing any offense before the proper court.
3.   Writs. Execute and return all writs and other processes directed to the
Police Chief.
4.   Accident Reports. Report all motor vehicle accidents investigated to the
State Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.266)
5.   Prisoners. Be responsible for the custody of prisoners, including
conveyance to detention facilities as may be required.
6.   Assist Officials. When requested, provide aid to other City officers,
boards, and commissions in the execution of their official duties.
7.   Investigations. Provide for such investigation as may be necessary for the
prosecution of any person alleged to have violated any law or ordinance.
8.   Record of Arrests. Keep a record of all arrests made in the City by
showing whether said arrests were made under provisions of State law or City
ordinance, the offense charged, who made the arrest, and the disposition of the
charge.
9.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report as
well as such other reports as may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
10.   Command. Be in command of all officers appointed for police work and be
responsible for the care, maintenance, and use of all vehicles, equipment, and
materials of the department.
30.08   DEPARTMENTAL RULES.
The Police Chief shall establish such rules, not in conflict with the Code of
Ordinances, and subject to the approval of the Council, as may be necessary for
the operation of the department.
30.09   SUMMONING AID.
Any peace officer making a legal arrest may orally summon as many persons as
the officer reasonably finds necessary to aid the officer in making the arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.17)
30.10   TAKING WEAPONS.
Any person who makes an arrest may take from the person arrested all items that
are capable of causing bodily harm which the arrested person may have within
such person’s control, to be disposed of according to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.18)
30.11   CONTRACT LAW ENFORCEMENT.
In lieu of the appointment of a Police Chief by the Mayor as provided by
Section 30.06, the Council may contract with the County Sheriff or any other
qualified lawful entity to provide law enforcement services within the City and
in such event the Sheriff or such other entity shall have and exercise the
powers and duties of the Police Chief as provided herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 28E.30)
CHAPTER 31
RESERVE PEACE OFFICERS
 
31.01 Establishment of Force     31.07 No Reduction of Regular Force
31.02 Training                   31.08 Compensation
31.03 Status of Reserve Officers 31.09 Benefits When Injured
31.04 Carrying Weapons           31.10 Liability and False Arrest Insurance
31.05 Supplementary Capacity     31.11 No Participation in Pension Fund or
                                 Retirement System
31.06 Supervision of Officers
 
31.01   ESTABLISHMENT OF FORCE.
A force of reserve peace officers is hereby established. The force shall
consist of not more than nine members. A reserve peace officer is a volunteer,
non-regular, sworn member of the Police Department who will serve with or
without compensation and has regular police powers while functioning as the
Police Department’s representative, and will participate on a regular basis in
the agency’s activities, including those of crime prevention and control,
preservation of the peace, and enforcement of the law.
31.02   TRAINING.
Training for individuals appointed as reserve peace officers shall be provided
by instructors in a community college or other facility, including a law
enforcement agency, selected by the individual and approved by the law
enforcement agency and the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy. All standards and
training required under Chapter 80D of the Code of Iowa constitute the minimum
standards for reserve peace officers. Upon satisfactory completion of training,
the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy shall certify the individual as a reserve
peace officer. There shall be no exemptions from the personal and training
standards provided for in this chapter.
31.03   STATUS OF RESERVE OFFICERS.
Reserve peace officers shall serve as peace officers on the orders and at the
discretion of the Police Chief. While in the actual performance of official
duties, reserve peace officers shall be vested with the same rights,
privileges, obligations, and duties as any other peace officer.
31.04   CARRYING WEAPONS.
A member of the reserve force shall not carry a weapon in the line of duty
until he or she has been approved by the Council and certified by the Iowa Law
Enforcement Academy Council. After approval and certification, a reserve peace
officer may carry a weapon in the line of duty only when authorized by the
Police Chief.
31.05   SUPPLEMENTARY CAPACITY.
Reserve peace officers shall act only in a supplementary capacity to the
regular force and shall not assume full-time duties of regular peace officers
without first complying with all the requirements of regular peace officers.
31.06   SUPERVISION OF OFFICERS.
Reserve peace officers shall be subordinate to regular peace officers, shall
not serve as peace officers unless under the direction of regular peace
officers, and shall wear a uniform prescribed by the Police Chief, unless that
superior officer designates alternate apparel for use when engaged in
assignments involving special investigations, civil process, court duties, jail
duties, and the handling of mental patients. The reserve peace officers shall
not wear an insignia of rank.
31.07   NO REDUCTION OF REGULAR FORCE.
There shall be no reduction of the authorized size of the regular law
enforcement department of the City because of the establishment or utilization
of reserve peace officers.
31.08   COMPENSATION.
While performing official duties, each reserve peace officer shall be
considered an employee of the City and shall be paid a minimum of $1.00 per
year. The Council may provide additional monetary assistance for the purchase
and maintenance of uniforms and equipment used by reserve peace officers.
31.09   BENEFITS WHEN INJURED.
Hospital and medical assistance and benefits, as provided in Chapter 85 of the
Code of Iowa, shall be provided by the City to members of the reserve force who
sustain injury in the course of performing official duties.
31.10   LIABILITY AND FALSE ARREST INSURANCE.
Liability and false arrest insurance shall be provided by the City to members
of the reserve force while performing official duties in the same manner as for
regular peace officers.
31.11   NO PARTICIPATION IN PENSION FUND OR RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
This chapter shall not be construed to authorize or permit a reserve peace
officer to become eligible for participation in a pension fund or retirement
system created by the laws of the State and of which regular peace officers may
become members.
CHAPTER 35
FIRE DEPARTMENT
35.01 Establishment and Purpose 35.09 Constitution
35.02 Organization              35.10 Accidental Injury Insurance
35.03 Approved by Council       35.11 Liability Insurance
35.04 Training                  35.12 Calls Outside City
35.05 Compensation              35.13 Mutual Aid
35.06 Election of Officers      35.14 Authority to Cite Violations
35.07 Duties of Fire Chief      35.15 Emergency Ambulance Service
35.08 Obedience to Fire Chief   35.16 Billing for Services
 
35.01   ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
A volunteer fire department is hereby established to prevent and extinguish
fires and to protect lives and property against fires, to promote fire
prevention and fire safety, and to answer all emergency calls for which there
is no other established agency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.16)
35.02   ORGANIZATION.
The department consists of the Fire Chief and such other officers and personnel
as may be authorized by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.03   APPROVED BY COUNCIL.
No person having otherwise qualified shall be appointed to the department until
such appointment is submitted to and approved by a majority of the Council
members.
35.04   TRAINING.
All members of the department shall meet the minimum training standards
established by the State Fire Marshal and attend and actively participate in
regular or special training drills or programs as directed by the Fire Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100B.2[4])
35.05   COMPENSATION.
Members of the department shall be designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.06   ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
The department shall elect a Fire Chief and such other officers as its
constitution and bylaws may provide, but the election of the Fire Chief shall
be subject to the approval of the Council. In case of absence of the Fire
Chief, the officer next in rank shall be in charge and have and exercise all
the powers of Fire Chief.
35.07   DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
The Fire Chief shall perform all duties required of the Fire Chief by law or
ordinance, including (but not limited to) the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Enforce Laws. Enforce ordinances and laws regulating fire prevention and
the investigation of the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires.
2.   Technical Assistance. Upon request, give advice concerning private fire
alarm systems, fire extinguishing equipment, fire escapes and exits, and
development of fire emergency plans.
3.   Authority at Fires. When in charge of a fire scene, direct an operation as
necessary to extinguish or control a fire, perform a rescue operation,
investigate the existence of a suspected or reported fire, gas leak, or other
hazardous condition, or take any other action deemed necessary in the
reasonable performance of the department’s duties.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
4.   Control of Scenes. Prohibit an individual, vehicle, or vessel from
approaching a fire scene and remove from the scene any object, vehicle, vessel,
or individual that may impede or interfere with the operation of the Fire
Department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
5.   Authority to Barricade. When in charge of a fire scene, place or erect
ropes, guards, barricades, or other obstructions across a street, alley, right-
of-way, or private property near the location of the fire or emergency so as to
prevent accidents or interference with the firefighting efforts of the Fire
Department, to control the scene until any required investigation is complete,
or to preserve evidence related to the fire or other emergency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.3)
6.   Command. Be charged with the duty of maintaining the efficiency,
discipline, and control of the Fire Department. The members of the Fire
Department shall, at all times, be subject to the direction of the Fire Chief.
7.   Property. Exercise and have full control over the disposition of all fire
apparatus, tools, equipment, and other property used by or belonging to the
Fire Department.
8.   Notification. Whenever death, serious bodily injury, or property damage in
excess of $200,000.00 has occurred as a result of a fire, or if arson is
suspected, notify the State Fire Marshal’s Division immediately. For all other
fires causing an estimated damage of $50.00 or more or emergency responses by
the Fire Department, file a report with the Fire Marshal’s Division within 10
days following the end of the month. The report shall indicate all fire
incidents occurring and state the name of the owners and occupants of the
property at the time of the fire, the value of the property, the estimated
total loss to the property, origin of the fire as determined by investigation,
and other facts, statistics, and circumstances concerning the fire incidents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.2 and 100.3)
9.   Right of Entry. Have the right, during reasonable hours, to enter any
building or premises within the Fire Chief’s jurisdiction for the purpose of
making such investigation or inspection that under law or ordinance may be
necessary to be made and that is reasonably necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.12)
10.   Recommendation. Make such recommendations to owners, occupants,
caretakers, or managers of buildings necessary to eliminate fire hazards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.13)
11.   Assist State Fire Marshal. At the request of the State Fire Marshal, and
as provided by law, aid said marshal in the performance of duties by
investigating, preventing, and reporting data pertaining to fires.
12.   Records. Cause to be kept records of the Fire Department personnel,
firefighting equipment, depreciation of all equipment and apparatus, the number
of responses to alarms, their cause, and location, and an analysis of losses by
value, type, and location of buildings.
13.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report of
the status and activities of the department as well as such other reports as
may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
35.08   OBEDIENCE TO FIRE CHIEF.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of the Fire Chief.
35.09   CONSTITUTION.
The department shall adopt a constitution and bylaws as they deem calculated to
accomplish the object contemplated, and such constitution and bylaws and any
change or amendment to such constitution and bylaws before being effective,
must be approved by the Council.
35.10   ACCIDENTAL INJURY INSURANCE.
The Council shall contract to insure the City against liability for worker’s
compensation and against statutory liability for the costs of hospitalization,
nursing, and medical attention for volunteer firefighters injured in the
performance of their duties as firefighters whether within or outside the
corporate limits of the City. All volunteer firefighters shall be covered by
the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 85.2, 85.61, and Sec. 410.18)
35.11   LIABILITY INSURANCE.
The Council shall contract to insure against liability of the City or members
of the department for injuries, death, or property damage arising out of and
resulting from the performance of departmental duties within or outside the
corporate limits of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.2 and 517A.1)
35.12   CALLS OUTSIDE CITY.
The department shall answer calls to fires and other emergencies outside the
City limits if the Fire Chief determines that such emergency exists and that
such action will not endanger persons and property within the City limits.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
35.13   MUTUAL AID.
Subject to approval by resolution of the Council, the department may enter into
mutual aid agreements with other legally constituted fire departments. Copies
of any such agreements shall be filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
35.14   AUTHORITY TO CITE VIOLATIONS.
Fire officials acting under the authority of Chapter 10A, Subchapter V, Part 2
of the Code of Iowa, may issue citations in accordance with Chapter 805 of the
Code of Iowa, for violations of Chapter 10A, Subchapter V, Part 2 of the Code
of Iowa or a violation of a local fire safety code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.41)
35.15   EMERGENCY AMBULANCE SERVICE.
The department is authorized to provide emergency ambulance or rescue services,
and the accidental injury and liability insurance provided for herein shall
include such operation.
35.16   BILLING FOR SERVICES.
 
1.   The Mayor, on behalf of the Fire Department, may enter into contracts or
agreements with others to do the billing for fire, hazardous spills, and rescue
services.
2.   No individual taxpayer living within the City shall be billed any amount
in excess of what their insurance policy may pay.
3.   Rates that may be charged by the Fire Department shall be established by
resolution of the Council, reviewed periodically, and may be adjusted by
resolution of the Council.
4.   All income from billings shall be deposited into the general fund of the
City to be used for the Fire Department for the replacement of equipment,
supplies, or other operational costs.
5.   Any individual or entity making a false fire alarm within the City shall
be subject to the following service fees:
6.   First per calendar year   no charge
7.   Second per calendar year   $100.00
8.   Third or more per calendar year   $250.00 each
9.   For purposes of this section, a false fire alarm shall include any alarm
that results in a service call by the Fire Department in situations that would
not otherwise have required the Fire Department to respond.
CHAPTER 36
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SPILLS
 
36.01 Purpose                     36.05 Notifications
36.02 Definitions                 36.06 Police and Fire Authority
36.03 Cleanup Required            36.07 Response
36.04 Liability for Cleanup Costs 36.08 City Liability
 
36.01   PURPOSE.
This chapter was created to protect and reduce the danger to public health,
City and private properties, City response, the safety and welfare of its
citizens from the potential hazards related to the spills of hazardous
substances. This chapter provides the City’s response and responsibility
related to the removal and cleanup of spills within the City.
36.02   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Cleanup” means actions necessary to contain, collect, control, identify,
analyze, clean-up, treat, disperse, remove, or dispose of a hazardous substance
or hazardous waste.
2.   “Hazardous condition” means any situation involving the actual, imminent,
or probable spillage, leakage, or release of a hazardous substance or hazardous
waste onto the land, into a water of the State, or into the atmosphere which
creates an immediate or potential danger to the public health or safety.
3.   “Hazardous substance” means any substance or mixture of substances that
presents a danger to the public health or safety and includes, but is not
limited to, a substance that is toxic, corrosive, or flammable, or that is an
irritant or that generates pressure through decomposition, heat, or other
means. “Hazardous substance” may include any hazardous waste identified or
listed by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency under the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or any toxic pollutant listed under
Section 307 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1,
1977, or any hazardous substance designated under Section 311 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous
material designated by the Secretary of Transportation under the Hazardous
Materials Transportation Act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[5])
4.   “Hazardous waste” means a waste or combination of wastes that, because of
its quantity, concentration, biological degradation, leaching from
precipitation, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics, has either
of the following effects:
   A.   Causes or significantly contributes to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness; or,
   B.   Poses a substantial danger to human health or the environment.
Hazardous waste may include, but is not limited to, waste that is toxic,
corrosive, or flammable or irritants, strong sensitizers, or explosives.
Agricultural wastes, including manures and crop residues that are returned to
the soil as fertilizers or soil conditioners may be considered hazardous waste
for the purposes of this chapter. Any source, special nuclear, or by-product
material as defined in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1,
1979, may also be considered a hazardous waste for the purpose of this chapter.
5.   “Responsible person” means a person who at any time produces, handles,
stores, uses, transports, refines, or disposes of a hazardous substance or
waste, the release of which creates a hazardous condition, including bailees,
carriers, and any other person in control of a hazardous substance or waste
when a hazardous condition occurs, whether the person owns the hazardous
substance or is operating under a lease, contract, or other agreement with the
legal owner of the hazardous substance or waste.
36.03   CLEANUP REQUIRED.
1.   Whenever a hazardous condition is created so that the hazardous substance
may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into any
waters, including ground waters, the responsible person shall cause the
condition to be remedied by a cleanup as rapidly as feasible to an acceptable,
safe condition and restore the affected area to its state prior to the
hazardous condition as far as practicable. The costs of cleanup shall be borne
by the responsible person.
2.   If the responsible person does not cause the cleanup to begin in a
reasonable time in relation to the hazard and circumstances of the incident,
the City may, by authorization of the Mayor or their designee, give reasonable
notice, based on the character of the hazardous condition, setting a deadline
for commencing and accomplishing the cleanup or the City may proceed to procure
cleanup services. If the cost of the cleanup is beyond the capacity of the City
to finance, the Mayor or their designee may report to the Council an
immediately seek any State or federal funds available for such cleanup.
36.04   LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS.
The responsible person shall be strictly liable to the City for all of the
following:
1.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City in containing or controlling a
hazardous condition.
2.   The reasonable cleanup costs incurred by the City as a result of the
failure of the person to clean up a hazardous substance or waste involved in a
hazardous condition caused by that person.
3.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City to evacuate people from the area
threatened by a hazardous condition caused by the person.
4.   The reasonable damages to the City for the injury to, destruction of, or
loss of City property, including parks and roads, resulting from a hazardous
condition caused by that person, including the costs of assessing the injury,
destruction, or loss.
5.   The costs referenced above shall be as determined by the Clerk and Fire
Chief for:
   A.   Manpower.
   B.   Apparatus.
   C.   Ambulance or Rescue Squad.
   D.   Command Vehicle.
   E.   Utility Truck.
   F.   Supplies.
   G.   Outside Services.
   H.   Mileage.
   I.   Decontamination.
   J.   Repairs.
   K.   Replacement.
   L.   Maintenance of Equipment.
   M.   Gear.
   N.   A reasonable administrative fee.
It is unlawful for any responsible person to fail to pay a billing for such
services within 30 days of receipt, therefore.
36.05   NOTIFICATIONS.
1.   A person manufacturing, storing, handling, transporting, or disposing of a
hazardous substance or waste shall notify the Fire Chief and 911 of the
occurrences of a hazardous condition as soon as possible but not later than
five minutes after the onset of the hazardous condition or discovery of the
hazardous condition. The Fire Chief shall notify the proper mutual aid, local,
State, or federal offices in the manner established by the State or SOGs.
2.   Any City employee who discovers a hazardous condition shall call 911 or
notify the Fire Department, which shall notify the proper mutual aid, local,
State, or federal offices in the manner established by the State or SOGs.
36.06   POLICE AND FIRE AUTHORITY.
If the circumstances reasonably so require, the Fire Chief or Police Chief, or
an authorized representative may:
1.   Evacuate persons from their homes to areas away from the site of a
hazardous condition, and
2.   Establish perimeters or other boundaries at or near the site of a
hazardous condition and limit access to cleanup personnel.
No person shall disobey an order of the Police Chief or Fire Chief, or any
other authorized fire personnel, deputy, or peace officer issued under this
section.
36.07   RESPONSE.
Dispatched City services have a duty to respond to all calls requested for
hazardous material incidents. Dispatched City services also have a duty to use
or notify all additional resources when needed including, but not limited to,
mutual aid, local, City, County, State, or federal assistance when required.
36.08   CITY LIABILITY.
The City shall not be liable to any person for claims of damages, injuries, or
losses resulting from any hazardous condition, unless the City is the
responsible person.
CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC PEACE
 
40.01 Assault    40.03 Disorderly Conduct
40.02 Harassment 40.04 Failure to Disperse
 
40.01   ASSAULT.
No person shall, without justification, commit any of the following:
1.   Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to cause pain or injury to
another or that is intended to result in physical contact that will be
insulting or offensive to another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute
the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[1])
2.   Threat of Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to place another in
fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting,
or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[2])
An act described in Subsections 1 and 2 shall not be an assault under the
following circumstances: (i) if the person doing any of the enumerated acts,
and such other person, are voluntary participants in a sport, social or other
activity, not in itself criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable
incident of such sport or activity, and does not create an unreasonable risk of
serious injury or breach of the peace; (ii) if the person doing any of the
enumerated acts is employed by a school district or accredited nonpublic
school, or is an area education agency staff member who provides services to a
school or school district, and intervenes in a fight or physical struggle or
other disruptive situation that takes place in the presence of the employee or
staff member performing employment duties in a school building, on school
grounds, or at an official school function, regardless of the location, whether
the fight or physical struggle or other disruptive situation is between
students or other individuals, if the degree and the force of the intervention
is reasonably necessary to restore order and to protect the safety of those
assembled.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1)
40.02   HARASSMENT.
No person shall commit harassment.
1.   A person commits harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy, or
alarm another person, the person does any of the following:
   A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing, or via
electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner likely to
cause the other person annoyance or harm.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   B.   Places any simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in or
near any building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or railroad car, or boat
occupied by the other person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be
delivered to another, without such other person’s knowledge or consent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law enforcement
authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing that the
information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal act,
knowing the same did not occur.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
2.   A person commits harassment when the person, purposefully and without
legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another person, with the intent
to threaten, intimidate or alarm that other person. As used in this section,
unless the context otherwise requires, “personal contact” means an encounter in
which two or more people are in visual or physical proximity to each other.
“Personal contact” does not require a physical touching or oral communication,
although it may include these types of contacts.
40.03   DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
No person shall do any of the following:
1.   Fighting. Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place or in
or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that participants in athletic
contests may engage in such conduct that is reasonably related to that sport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1a])
2.   Noise. Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence or
public building which intentionally or recklessly causes unreasonable distress
to the occupants thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1b])
3.   Abusive Language. Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture
that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent
reaction by another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1c])
4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly. Without lawful authority or color of authority,
disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct intended to
disrupt the meeting or assembly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1d])
5.   False Report of Catastrophe. By words or action, initiate or circulate a
report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe, knowing such report
to be false or such warning to be baseless.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1e])
6.   Disrespect of Flag. Knowingly and publicly use the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault. As used in this
subsection:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1f])
   A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.
   B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.
   C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material designed to be
flown from a pole or mast.
   D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to make
imperfect.
   E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or trample.
   F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or intentionally cause a
machine, vehicle, or animal to tread upon.
7.   Funeral or Memorial Service. Within 1,000 feet of the building or other
location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or within
1,000 feet of a funeral procession or burial:
   A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.
   B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the person
knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent reaction by
another.
   C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral procession,
or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial
service, funeral procession, or burial.
This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)
40.04   FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
A peace officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly or
persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to disperse.
No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to obey.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3)
CHAPTER 41
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
41.01 Distributing Dangerous Substances                  41.09 Antenna and
                                                         Radio Wires
41.02 False Reports to or Communications with Public     41.10 Barbed Wire and
Safety Entities                                          Electric Fences
41.03 Providing False Identification Information         41.11 Discharging
                                                         Weapons
41.04 Refusing to Assist Officer                         41.12 Throwing and
                                                         Shooting
41.05 Harassment of Public Officers and Employees        41.13 Urinating and
                                                         Defecating
41.06 Interference with Official Acts                    41.14 Fireworks
41.07 Removal of an Officer’s Communication or Control 41.15 Failure to
Device                                                   Assist
41.08 Abandoned or Unattended Refrigerators
 
41.01   DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any corrosive,
caustic, poisonous or other injurious substance unless the person delivers such
into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes reasonable precautions
that the substance will not be taken by children or animals from the place
where the substance is deposited.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)
41.02   FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.
No person shall do any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)
1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire department, a
law enforcement authority, or other public safety entity, knowing that the
information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a criminal act
knowing the act did not occur.
2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that he or she
is not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information or
assistance.
3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.
41.03   PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to anyone
known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is
within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency
medical care provider, or firefighter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)
41.04   REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make an
arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required. No person shall unreasonably and without lawful cause,
refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)
41.05   HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer or
employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)
41.06   INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.
No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to be a
peace officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider under Chapter 147A of
the Code of Iowa, medical examiner, or firefighter, whether paid or volunteer,
or a person performing bailiff duties pursuant to Section 602.1303[4] of the
Code of Iowa, in the performance of any act that is within the scope of the
lawful duty or authority of that officer, jailer, emergency medical care
provider, medical examiner, or firefighter, or person performing bailiff
duties, or shall knowingly resist or obstruct the service or execution by any
authorized person of any civil or criminal process or order of any court. The
terms “resist” and “obstruct” as used in this section do not include verbal
harassment unless the verbal harassment is accompanied by a present ability and
apparent intention to execute a verbal threat physically.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)
41.07   REMOVAL OF AN OFFICER’S COMMUNICATION OR CONTROL DEVICE.
No person shall knowingly or intentionally remove or attempt to remove a
communication device or any device used for control from the possession of a
peace officer or correctional officer, when the officer is in the performance
of any act which is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that
officer and the person knew or should have known the individual to be an
officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.12)
41.08   ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.
No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings on
premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended and so
accessible to children.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)
41.09   ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.
It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground, or public building without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.10   BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City limits without the written consent of the Council unless
such land consists of 10 acres or more and is used as agricultural land.
41.11   DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
1.   It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns, pepper ball guns, tasers, or other firearms of any kind within
the City limits except by written consent of the Council.
2.   No person shall intentionally discharge a firearm in a reckless manner.
41.12   THROWING AND SHOOTING.
It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks, or missiles of any kind or
to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, BB guns, or
other dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground, or public building, without written
consent of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.13   URINATING AND DEFECATING.
It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk, street,
alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building, including
but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway, doorway, or
window thereof, or onto any public or private land.
41.14   FIREWORKS.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.2)
1.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
   A.   “Consumer fireworks” means the following fireworks, as described in
Chapter 3 of the American Pyrotechnics Association (“APA”) Standard 87-1:
      (1)   First-class consumer fireworks:
         a.   Aerial shell kits and reloadable tubes;
         b.   Chasers;
         c.   Helicopters and aerial spinners;
         d.   Firecrackers;
         e.   Mine and shell devices;
         f.   Missile-type rockets;
         g.   Roman candles;
         h.   Sky rockets and bottle rockets;
         i.   Multiple tube devices under this paragraph which are manufactured
in accordance with APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.5.
      (2)   Second-class consumer fireworks:
         a.   Cone fountains;
         b.   Cylindrical fountains;
         c.   Flitter sparklers;
         d.   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices, including multiple tube
ground and hand-held sparkling devices that are manufactured in accordance with
APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.5;
         e.   Ground spinners;
         f.   Illuminating torches;
         g.   Toy smoke devices that are not classified as novelties pursuant
to APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.2;
         h.   Wheels;
         i.   Wire or dipped sparklers that are not classified as novelties
pursuant to APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.2.
   B.   “Display fireworks” includes any explosive composition, or combination
of explosive substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or
detonation, and includes fireworks containing any explosive or flammable
compound, or other device containing any explosive substance. “Display
fireworks” does not include novelties or consumer fireworks enumerated in
Chapter 3 of the APA Standard 87-1.
   C.   “Novelties” includes all novelties enumerated in Chapter 3 of the APA
Standard 87-1, and that comply with the labeling regulations promulgated by the
United States Consumer Product Safety Commission.
2.   Display Fireworks. It is unlawful for any person to use or explode any
display fireworks; provided, the City Council may, upon application in writing,
grant a permit for the display of display fireworks by municipalities, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of individuals
approved by the City when the display fireworks will be handled by a competent
operator, but no such permit shall be required for the display of display
fireworks at the Iowa State Fairgrounds by the Iowa State Fair Board, at
incorporated county fairs, or at district fairs receiving State aid.. No permit
shall be granted hereunder unless the operator or sponsoring organization has
filed with the City evidence of insurance in the following amounts:
   A.   Personal Injury:   $250,000.00 per person
   B.   Property Damage:   $50,000.00
   C.   Total Exposure:   $1,000,000.00
3.   Use of Fireworks.
   A.   The use of fireworks within the City limits are prohibited with the
following exceptions:
      (1)   When July 1 falls on a Friday, fireworks may be discharged through
July 4.
      (2)   When July 1 falls on a Saturday, fireworks may be discharged
through July 4.
      (3)   When July 1 falls on a Sunday, fireworks may be discharged through
July 7.
      (4)   When July 1 falls on a Monday, fireworks may be discharged through
July 6.
      (5)   When July 1 falls on a Tuesday, fireworks may be discharged through
July 5.
      (6)   When July 1 falls on a Wednesday, fireworks may be discharged
through July 4.
      (7)   When July 1 falls on a Thursday, fireworks may be discharged
through July 4.
      (8)   Fireworks may only be discharged starting at 12:00 p.m. and ending
by 10:00 p.m. each day according to the above schedule.
      (9)   Except on the July 4 holiday, fireworks may be discharged starting
at 9:00 a.m. and ending by 11:00 p.m.
      (10)   Fireworks may be discharged each year from December 31 starting at
12:00 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. on January 1 of the following year.
   B.   Restriction As to Age. Consumer fireworks that are identified as being
Class 1 or Class 2 may only be discharged by individuals that are 18 years of
age and older. Fireworks that are classified as novelties (APAS 87-1) may be
discharged by individuals five years of age and older but only when supervised
by an adult.
   C.   Restrictions As to Locations. An individual shall not use consumer
fireworks on real property other than that individual’s real property or on
real property who has consented to the use of consumer fireworks on that
property.
      (1)   No fireworks shall be permitted to be discharged in areas zoned C-
3 Commercial District or C-4 Commercial District at any time.
      (2)   No individual shall discharge any consumer fireworks within 30 feet
of another person or within 30 feet of a structure.
   A.   D.   Restrictions due to drought conditions. No person shall discharge
consumer fireworks at any time when the County has issued a burn ban.
4.   Penalty. Any discharging of the above referenced consumer fireworks
outside of the excepted dates, hours, or locations or under conditions
restricted above shall be deemed a simple misdemeanor and shall be punishable
by a fine of not less than $250.00.
41.15   FAILURE TO ASSIST.
A person who reasonably believes another person is suffering from a risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death shall, if the person is able,
attempt to contact local law enforcement or local emergency response
authorities, if doing so does not place the person or other person at risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death. No person shall without
lawful cause violate the provisions of this section. A person shall not be
required to contact local law enforcement or emergency response authorities if
the person knows or reasonably believes that the other person is not in need of
help or assistance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.12)
CHAPTER 42
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 
42.01 Trespassing                       42.05 Fraud
42.02 Criminal Mischief                 42.06 Theft
42.03 Defacing Proclamations or Notices 42.07 Other Public Property Offenses
42.04 Unauthorized Entry
 
42.01   TRESPASSING.
1.   Prohibited. It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the
property of another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.8)
2.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[1])
   A.   “Property” includes any land, dwelling, building, conveyance, vehicle,
or other temporary or permanent structure, whether publicly or privately owned.
   B.   “Public utility” is a public utility as defined in Section 476.1 of the
Code of Iowa or an electric transmission line as provided in Chapter 478 of the
Code of Iowa.
   C.   “Public utility property” means any land, dwelling, building,
conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased,
or operated by a public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical
barrier of any kind.
   D.   “Railway corporation” means a corporation, company, or person owning,
leasing, or operating any railroad in whole or in part within this State.
   E.   “Railway property” means all tangible real and personal property owned,
leased, or operated by a railway corporation, with the exception of any
administrative building or offices of the railway corporation.
   F.   “Trespass” means one or more of the following acts:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2a])
      (1)   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of the
owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense or to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate.
      (2)   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any peace officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to supervise
the use or maintenance of the property.
      (3)   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect of
unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
      (4)   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing therefrom,
altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein anything animate
or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the owner, lessee, or
person in lawful possession.
      (5)   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property. This paragraph does not apply to passage over
a railroad right-of-way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct, bridge,
trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not been
notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right-of-way or to
vacate the right-of-way and the passage over the right-of-way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
      (6)   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without
lawful authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns,
leases, or operates the public utility property. This paragraph does not apply
to passage over public utility right-of-way by a person if the person has not
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering onto the right-of-way or to vacate the right-of-way.
3.   Specific Exceptions. “Trespass” does not mean either of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2b])
   A.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another, provided that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property.
This paragraph does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
   B.   Entering upon the right-of-way of a public road or highway.
42.02   CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter, or destroy property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.03   DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down, or
destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of
the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement, or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or by
order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.04   UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises, or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises or grounds are closed and not open to the public. When open
to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also constitutes an
unauthorized entry.
42.05   FRAUD.
It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice as defined in
Section 714.8 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.8)
42.06   THEFT.
It is unlawful for any person to commit theft as defined in Section 714.1 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
42.07   OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other activities or conditions that are also deemed
to be public property offenses:
1.   Chapter 22 – Library
   A.   Section 22.10 – Injury to Books or Property
   B.   Section 22.11 – Theft of Library Property
2.   Chapter 105 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling
   A.   Section 105.07 – Littering Prohibited
3.   Chapter 135 – Street Use and Maintenance
   A.   Section 135.01 – Removal of Warning Devices
   B.   Section 135.02 – Obstructing or Defacing
   C.   Section 135.03 – Placing Debris On
   D.   Section 135.04 – Playing In
   E.   Section 135.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
   F.   Section 135.08 – Burning Prohibited
   G.   Section 135.12 – Dumping of Snow
4.   Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations
   A.   Section 136.11 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements
   B.   Section 136.15 – Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
   C.   Section 136.16 – Defacing
   D.   Section 136.17 – Debris on Sidewalks
   E.   Section 136.18 – Merchandise Display
   F.   Section 136.19 – Sales Stands
CHAPTER 43
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
 
43.01 Purpose                      43.04 Determining Factors
43.02 Controlled Substance Defined 43.05 Possession of Drug Paraphernalia
43.03 Drug Paraphernalia Defined   43.06 Manufacture, Delivery, or Offering For
                                   Sale
 
43.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit the use, possession with intent to
use, manufacture, and delivery of drug paraphernalia as defined herein.
43.02   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE DEFINED.
The term “controlled substance” as used in this chapter is defined as the term
“controlled substance” is defined in the Uniform Controlled Substance Act,
Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa, as it now exists or is hereafter amended.
43.03   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA DEFINED.
The term “drug paraphernalia” as used in this chapter means all equipment,
products, and materials of any kind which are used, intended for use, or
designed for use, in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, concealing, containing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body a
controlled substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled Substances Act,
Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa. It includes, but is not limited to:
1.   Growing Kits. Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting of any species of
plant which is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can
be derived.
2.   Processing Kits. Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing
controlled substances.
3.   Isomerization Devices. Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or
designed for use in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a
controlled substance.
4.   Testing Equipment. Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed
for use in identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity
of controlled substances.
5.   Scales. Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances.
6.   Diluents. Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose, or lactose, used, intended for use, or designed
for use in cutting controlled substances.
7.   Separators; Sifters. Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use,
or designed for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning
or refining marijuana.
8.   Mixing Devices. Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, and mixing devices
used, intended for use, or designed for use in compounding-controlled
substances.
9.   Containers. Capsules, balloons, envelopes, and other containers used,
intended for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances.
10.   Storage Containers. Containers and other objects used, intended for use,
or designed for use in storing or concealing controlled substances.
11.   Injecting Devices. Hypodermic syringes, needles, and other objects used,
intended for use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled
substances into the human body.
12.   Ingesting-Inhaling Device. Objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing heroin, marijuana,
cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the human body, such as:
   A.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes with or
without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal bowls;
   B.   Water pipes;
   C.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
   D.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
   E.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning materials, such as a
marijuana cigarette that has become too small or too short to be held in the
hand;
   F.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
   G.   Chamber pipes;
   H.   Carburetor pipes;
   I.   Electric pipes;
   J.   Air driven pipes;
   K.   Chillums;
   L.   Bongs;
   M.   Ice pipes or chillers.
43.04   DETERMINING FACTORS.
In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia for the purpose of
enforcing this chapter, the following factors should be considered in addition
to all other logically relevant factors:
1.   Statements. Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use.
2.   Prior Convictions. Prior convictions, if any, of an owner or of anyone in
control of the object under any State or federal law relating to any controlled
substance.
3.   Proximity to Violation. The proximity of the object, in time and space, to
a direct violation of the Uniform Controlled Substance Act, Chapter 124 of the
Code of Iowa.
4.   Proximity to Substances. The proximity of the object to controlled
substances.
5.   Residue. The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object.
6.   Evidence of Intent. Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an
owner or of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he
or she knows, or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate
a violation of the Uniform Controlled Substances Act, Chapter 124 of the Code
of Iowa.
7.   Innocence of an Owner. The innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control
of the object, as to a direct violation of the Uniform Controlled Substances
Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa, should not prevent a finding that the
object is intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
8.   Instructions. Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use.
9.   Descriptive Materials. Descriptive materials accompany the object
explaining or depicting its use.
10.   Advertising. National and local advertising concerning its use.
11.   Displayed. The manner in which the object is displayed for sale.
12.   Licensed Distributor or Dealer. Whether the owner, or anyone in control
of the object, is a legitimate supplier of like or related items to the
community, such as a licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products.
13.   Sales Ratios. Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of
the object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise.
14.   Legitimate Uses. The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the
object in the community.
15.   Expert Testimony. Expert testimony concerning its use.
43.05   POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to use, drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into
the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled
Substance Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa.
43.06   MANUFACTURE, DELIVERY, OR OFFERING FOR SALE.
It is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with intent to deliver,
manufacture with intent to deliver, or offer for sale drug paraphernalia,
intending that the drug paraphernalia will be used, or knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know that it will be used, or knowing
that it is designed for use to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Uniform
Controlled Substances Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 45
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION
 
45.01 Persons Under Legal Age 45.03 Open Containers in Motor Vehicles
45.02 Public Consumption or   45.04 Social Host
Intoxication
 
45.01   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
As used in this section, “legal age” means 21 years of age or more.  
1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase, consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic beverages in their
possession or control; except in the case of any alcoholic beverage given or
dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence, and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages during the regular course of the
person’s employment by a retail alcohol licensee, or wine or beer permittee
under State laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[2])
2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age for the
purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage from any
retail alcohol licensee or wine or beer permittee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[3])
45.02   PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.
1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
   A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the Code of Iowa
and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of the Code of
Iowa.
   B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath, or urine to
determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person using devices
and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   C.   “Peace officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4 of the Code
of Iowa.
   D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion of a public
or private school that provides teaching for any grade from kindergarten
through grade twelve.
2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer upon the
public streets or highways. A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor
in any public place, except premises covered by a retail alcohol license. A
person shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine, or beer on public
school property or while attending any public or private school-related
function. A person shall not be intoxicated in a public place.
3.   A person shall not simulate intoxication in a public place.
4.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public intoxication
under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person that the person
may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own expense. If a device
approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for testing a sample of a
person’s breath to determine the person’s blood alcohol concentration is
available, that is the only test that need be offered the person arrested. In a
prosecution for public intoxication, evidence of the results of a chemical test
performed under this subsection is admissible upon proof of a proper
foundation. The percentage of alcohol present in a person’s blood, breath, or
urine established by the results of a chemical test performed within two hours
after the person’s arrest on a charge of public intoxication is presumed to be
the percentage of alcohol present at the time of arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)
45.03   OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
[See Section 62.01(50) and (51) of this Code of Ordinances.]
45.04   SOCIAL HOST.
A person who is the owner or lessee of, or who otherwise has control over,
property that is not a licensed premises shall not knowingly permit any person,
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the person to be under the age of
18, to consume or possess on such property any alcoholic beverage. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a landlord or manager of the
property or to a person under legal age who consumes or possesses any alcoholic
beverage in connection with a religious observance, ceremony, or rite.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47)
CHAPTER 46
MINORS
 
46.01 Curfew                 46.03 Contributing to Delinquency
46.02 Cigarettes and Tobacco
 
46.01   CURFEW.
The Council has determined that a curfew for minors is necessary to promote the
public health, safety, morals and general welfare of the City and specifically
to reinforce the primary authority and responsibility of adults responsible for
minors; to protect the public from the illegal acts of minors committed after
the curfew hour; and to protect minors from improper influences and criminal
activity that prevail in public places after the curfew hour.
1.   Definitions. For use in this section, the following terms are defined:
   A.   “Emergency errand” means, but is not limited to, an errand relating to
a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any other situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious illness, bodily injury, or loss
of life.
   B.   “Knowingly” means knowledge that a responsible adult should reasonably
be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that responsible
adult’s custody. It is intended to continue to hold the neglectful or careless
adult responsible for a minor to a reasonable standard of adult responsibility
through an objective test. It is therefore no defense that an adult responsible
for a minor was completely indifferent to the activities or conduct or
whereabouts of the minor.
   C.   “Minor” means any unemancipated person under the age of 18 years.
   D.   “Nonsecured custody” means custody in an unlocked multipurpose area,
such as a lobby, office or interrogation room that is not designed, set aside,
or used as a secure detention area, and the person arrested is not physically
secured during the period of custody in the area; the person is physically
accompanied by a law enforcement officer or a person employed by the facility
where the person arrested is being held; and the use of the area is limited to
providing nonsecured custody only while awaiting transfer to an appropriate
juvenile facility or to court, for contacting of and release to the person’s
parents or other responsible adult or for other administrative purposes; but
not for longer than six hours without the oral or written order of a judge or
magistrate authorizing the detention. A judge shall not extend the period of
time in excess of six hours beyond the initial six-hour period.
   E.   “Public place” includes stores, parking lots, parks, playgrounds,
streets, alleys, and sidewalks dedicated to public use and also includes such
parts of buildings and other premises, whether publicly or privately owned,
that are used by the general public or to which the general public is invited
commercially for a fee or otherwise; or in or on which the general public is
permitted without specific invitation; or to which the general public has
access. For purposes of this section, a vehicle or other conveyance is
considered to be a public place when in the areas defined above.
   F.   “Responsible adult” means a parent, guardian or other adult
specifically authorized by law or authorized by a parent or guardian to have
custody or control of a minor.
2.   Curfew Established. It is unlawful for any minor to be or remain upon any
of the alleys, streets, or public places or to be in places of business and
amusement in the City between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the
following day on days commencing on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and
Thursday and between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Friday and
Saturday.
3.   Exceptions. The following are exceptions to the curfew:
   A.   The minor is accompanied by a responsible adult.
   B.   The minor is on the sidewalk or property where the minor resides or on
either side of the place where the minor resides and the adult responsible for
the minor has given permission for the minor to be there.
   C.   The minor is present at or is traveling between home and one of the
following:
      (1)   Minor’s place of employment in a business, trade or occupation in
which the minor is permitted by law to be engaged or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end or before the beginning of work;
      (2)   Minor’s place of religious activity or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end or before the beginning of the religious activity;
      (3)   Governmental or political activity or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end or before the beginning of the activity;
      (4)   School activity or, if traveling, within one hour after the end or
before the beginning of the activity;
      (5)   Assembly such as a march, protest, demonstration, sit-in or meeting
of an association for the advancement of economic, political, religious or
cultural matters, or for any other activity protected by the First Amendment of
the U.S. Constitution guarantees of free exercise of religion, freedom of
speech, freedom of assembly or, if traveling, within one hour after the end or
before the beginning of the activity.
   D.   The minor is on an emergency errand for a responsible adult;
   E.   The minor is engaged in interstate travel through the City beginning,
ending or passing through the City when such travel is by direct route.
4.   Responsibility of Adults. It is unlawful for any responsible adult
knowingly to permit or to allow a minor to be in any public place in the City
within the time periods prohibited by this section unless the minor’s presence
falls within one of the above exceptions.
5.   Enforcement Procedures.
   A.   Determination of Age. In determining the age of the juvenile and in the
absence of convincing evidence such as a birth certificate or driver’s license,
a law enforcement officer on the street shall, in the first instance, use their
best judgment in determining age.
   B.   Grounds for Arrest; Conditions of Custody. Grounds for arrest are that
the person refuses to sign the citation without qualification; persists in
violating the ordinance; refuses to provide proper identification or to
identify themself; or constitutes an immediate threat to the person’s own
safety or to the safety of the public. A law enforcement officer who arrests a
minor for a curfew violation may keep the minor in custody either in a shelter
care facility or in any nonsecured setting. The officer shall not place bodily
restraints, such as handcuffs, on the minor unless the minor physically resists
or threatens physical violence when being taken into custody. A minor shall not
be placed in detention following a curfew violation.
   C.   Notification of Responsible Adult. After a minor is taken into custody,
the law enforcement officer shall notify the adult responsible for the minor as
soon as possible. The minor shall be released to the adult responsible for the
minor upon the promise of such person to produce the child in court at such
time as the court may direct.
   D.   Minor Without Adult Supervision. If a law enforcement officer
determines that a minor does not have adult supervision because the law
enforcement officer cannot locate the minor’s parent, guardian or other person
legally responsible for the care of the minor, within a reasonable time, the
law enforcement officer shall attempt to place the minor with an adult relative
of the minor, an adult person who cares for the child or another adult person
who is known to the child.
6.   Penalties.
   A.   Responsible Adult’s First Violation. In the case of a first violation
by a minor, the law enforcement officer shall, by certified mail, send to the
adult responsible for the minor, written notice of the violation with a warning
that any subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of the curfew
ordinance against both the responsible adult and minor, with applicable
penalties.
   B.   Responsible Adult’s Second Violation. Any responsible adult as defined
in this section who, following receipt of a warning, knowingly allows the minor
to violate any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a municipal
infraction.
   C.   Minor’s First Violation. In the case of a first violation by a minor,
the law enforcement officer shall give the minor a written warning, which
states that any subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of the
curfew ordinance against the responsible adult and the minor, with applicable
penalties, or, at the law enforcement officer’s discretion, may issue the minor
a citation for a first violation.
   D.   Minor’s Second Violation. For the minor’s second and subsequent
violations of any of the provisions of this section, the minor is guilty of a
municipal infraction.
46.02   CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO.
It is unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to smoke, use, possess,
purchase, or attempt to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes. Possession of tobacco,
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes
by an individual under 21 years of age shall not constitute a violation of this
section if the individual under 21 years of age possesses the tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes as part
of the person’s employment and said person is employed by a person who holds a
valid permit under Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or who lawfully offers for
sale or sells cigarettes or tobacco products.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2)
46.03   CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY.
It is unlawful for any person to encourage any child under 18 years of age to
commit any act of delinquency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 709A.1)
CHAPTER 47
PARK REGULATIONS
 
47.01 Purpose                47.05 Parks Closed
47.02 Use of Drives Required 47.06 Camping
47.03 Fires                  47.07 Beer and Wine In City Parks and Public
                             Property
47.04 Littering
 
47.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the enjoyment of park facilities
by the general public by establishing rules and regulations governing the use
of park facilities.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12)
47.02   USE OF DRIVES REQUIRED.
No person shall drive any car, cycle, or other vehicle, or ride or lead any
horse, in any portion of a park except upon the established drives or roadways
therein or such other places as may be officially designated by the City.
47.03   FIRES.
No fire shall be built, except in a place designated for such purpose, and such
fire shall be extinguished before leaving the area unless it is to be
immediately used by some other party.
47.04   LITTERING.
No person shall place, deposit, or throw any waste, refuse, litter, or foreign
substance in any area or receptacle except those provided for that purpose.
47.05   PARKS CLOSED.
No person, except those camping in designated areas, shall enter or remain
within any park between the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.
47.06   CAMPING.
No person shall camp in any portion of a park except in portions prescribed or
designated by the Council, and the City may refuse camping privileges or
rescind any and all camping privileges for cause.
47.07   BEER AND WINE IN CITY PARKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY.
No person shall drink alcoholic beverages in any park or public property
without first obtaining a permit from the City. The City has authority and
discretion to issue the permit for consumption of beer and wine only, in Mabrey
Park, Wavecrest Park, and other public facilities, between the hours of 8:30
a.m. and 5:00 p.m. of any weekday. The fee for the permit is as established by
resolution of the Council.
CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
 
50.01 Definitions             50.08 Administrative Penalties
50.02 Nuisances Enumerated    50.09 Nuisance Abatement
50.03 Adult Establishments    50.10 Emergency Actions Authorized
50.04 Other Conditions        50.11 Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice
50.05 Nuisances Prohibited    50.12 Right of Entry
50.06 Civil Penalty           50.13 Foreclosed and Rental Property
50.07 Additional Civil Relief 50.14 Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure
 
50.01   DEFINITIONS.
1.   “Adult establishment” means any business that provides nude or topless
dancing or operates any other adult-oriented business.
2.   “Emergency” means any unforeseen or unexpected occurrence, circumstance,
or a combination of such occurrences or circumstances or the resulting state of
therefrom that calls for immediate action to protect the health, safety, or
life of individuals or property from substantial damage or destruction.
2.   “Nuisance” means whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or
unreasonably offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of
property so as essentially to interfere unreasonably with the comfortable
enjoyment of life or property is a nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
50.02   NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions that are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)
1.   Offensive Smells. Erecting, continuing, or using any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture that, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort, or property
of individuals or the public.
2.   Filth or Noisome Substance. Causing or suffering any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of
others.
3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River. Obstructing or impeding without legal
authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or collection of water.
4.   Water Pollution. Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the water
of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its
natural course or state to the injury or prejudice of others.
5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways. Obstructing or encumbering, by fences,
buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets, alleys,
commons, landing places, or burying grounds.
6.   Billboards. Billboards, signboards, and advertising signs, whether erected
and constructed on public or private property, that so obstruct and impair the
view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway, boulevard, or
alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render dangerous the use
thereof. (See also Section 62.06) 
7.   Storing of Flammable Junk. Depositing or storing of flammable junk, such
as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones and paper, by dealers in such
articles within the fire limits of the City, unless in a building of fireproof
construction. (See also Chapter 51) 
8.   Air Pollution. Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes, or fly ash.
9.   Weeds, Brush. Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush, or other vegetation
in the City so as to constitute a health, safety, or fire hazard.
10.   Dutch Elm Disease. Trees infected with Dutch elm disease.
11.   Airport Air Space. Any object or structure hereafter erected within 1,000
feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or landing
place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation including take-off and
landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use or enjoyment
of the land on which the same is located.
12.   Houses of Ill Fame. Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the Code
of Iowa or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or houses
where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, or breaches of the peace are carried
on or permitted to the disturbance of others.
13.   The possession, sale, or receipt of stolen property in the fifth degree.
14.   The maintenance, use, rental, or lease or allowing the permitting,
maintenance, use, rental, or lease of any property or sub-unit thereof where
people are allowed to congregate, gather, or loiter in such a manner as to
disturb the peace of other persons lawfully on the property itself or lawfully
in the vicinity of the property.
15.   The intentional planting of cotton-bearing cottonwood trees and all other
cotton-bearing poplar trees in the City.
16.   A sexually oriented business operated, conducted, or maintained contrary
to the provisions of Chapter 127 of this Code of Ordinances.
17.   The storage of any junk vehicles, machinery, trailers, or parts thereof
on private property within the corporate limits of the City, in violation of
Chapter 51 of this Code of Ordinances.
18.   The storage of solid waste on private property for more than three days
in violation of Chapter 105 of this Code of Ordinances.
19.   All weeds, vines, bushes, and volunteer trees less than three inches in
diameter, grass, and other growths which exceed a height of nine inches and all
noxious weeds of any dimension as defined by the Code of Iowa, growing on lots
and parcels of ground within the corporate limits of the City. (See also
Chapter 157)
20.   Materials constructed, stored, or placed on the public right-of-way for
more than 24 hours, which have not been previously approved as landscaping
materials or otherwise authorized by the City for said location.
21.   All unsafe buildings, structures, or appendages in violation of Chapter
145 of this Code of Ordinances.
22.   Maintenance of any dilapidated building of whatever kind which is unused
by the owner or uninhabited because of deterioration or decay, which condition
constitutes a fire hazard or subjects adjoining property to danger of damage by
storm soil erosion or rodent or insect infestation or which becomes a place
frequented by trespassers and transient seeking a temporary refuge.
23.   Maintenance of any partially or otherwise incomplete structures or
abandoned property including, but not limited to, fences, parking garages,
commercial and residential buildings and any and all unused building materials
or equipment remaining on any real property in the City for a period of longer
than 30 days or within seven days of the expiration of any properly issued
Building Permit or any extension thereof which said items have not been removed
by either the owner of the real property or holder of the permit.
24.   Maintenance of use of any building or structure which substantially
annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, health, repose, or safety of the
public by reason of vandalism, inadequate maintenance, abandonment, or
otherwise, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Vacant, inadequately maintained or boarded-up buildings or structures
located within 1,000 feet of a residentially zoned district which do not show
evidence of current construction or remodeling activity.
   B.   Vacant buildings or structures, regardless of proximity to a
residentially zoned district, which are not secure and to which entry may be
made through opened or unlocked doors, windows, or other openings.
   C.   Vacant buildings or structures which are likely to attract minors, and
which constitute a danger to the health, safety, or well-being of said minors.
25.   Keeping or maintaining any stockyard for the purpose of feeding or
fattening any cattle, swine, sheep, or other animals within the City to the
annoyance and discomfort of others.
26.   Permitting or suffering to continue a loud, raucous, or disagreeable
noise upon any premises or emanating from a motor vehicle owned by the person
or in the person’s possession that causes a disturbance to the general public.
A loud, raucous, or disagreeable noise is a noise that any reasonable person
would objectively find disturbing considering the time, place, and manner in
which the noise is being made. A motor vehicle is any vehicle which is self-
propelled. The general public is one person or multiple persons either located
in a public place or right-of-way or located off the premises or outside the
motor vehicle that is the subject to the violation of this chapter. The general
public includes police officers. The following circumstances are considered per
se violation as being loud, raucous, and disagreeable noises causing
disturbance to the general public and a violation of this chapter:
   A.   Noise emanating from a motor vehicle that can be heard from a distance
of 100 feet or more;
   B.   Modification of the exhaust system of a motor vehicle (including, but
not limited to, muffler cutouts, bypasses, or other non-emission complaint
devices which increase sound emissions) such that the noise emanating from the
motor vehicle is above the level of noise emanating by the vehicle as
manufactured.
   C.   Noise emanating from a place of business or dwelling that could be
heard from a distance of 100 feet or more as measured from any point beginning
on the place of business or dwelling property line.
   The above circumstances are intended to provide objective guidelines for
some of the more common noise violations occurring in the City and in no way
are meant to limit the scope of the acts that may be prohibited under this
section.
27.   Explosives, Firearms, and Similar Devices. The use or firing of
explosives, firearms, or similar devices that create an impulsive sound so as
to cause a noise disturbance across a real property boundary or on a public
space or right-of-way without first obtaining a special variance issued permit
shall be deemed a public nuisance and are prohibited.
28.   All other nuisances as specifically defined by the Code of Iowa or in any
other section of this Code of Ordinances.
50.03   ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS.  
1.   A public safety nuisance exists when it is established by clear and
convincing evidence that an owner, manger, employee, contemporaneous patron, or
guest of an adult establishment commits any of the following acts either on the
premises or in any parking lots or areas, including but not limited to public
rights-of-way, adjacent to the premises:
   A.   Unlawfully discharges a firearm or uses an offensive weapon, as defined
in Section 724.1 of the Code of Iowa, regardless of whether it inflicts injury
or death.
   B.   Assaults another person with a dangerous weapon as defined in Section
702.7 of the Code of Iowa resulting in injury or death.
   C.   Engages in a riot as defined in Section 723.1 of the Code of Iowa on
three or more dates within a 12-month period to which the police respond and
disperse a crowd. The participants need not be the same persons for each
incident.
2.   When the City Attorney believes a serious threat to the public safety
exists, the City Attorney or any other attorney on behalf of the City Attorney,
may file a suit in equity in the district court without bond seeking abatement
of the public safety nuisance arising from an adult establishment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.12)
50.04   OTHER CONDITIONS.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other conditions that are deemed to be nuisances:
1.   Junk and Junk Vehicles (See Chapter 51)
2.   Storage and Disposal of Solid Waste (See Chapter 105)
3.   Stormwater Control (See Chapter 101)
4.   Massage Parlors (See Chapter 126)
5.   Dangerous Buildings (See Chapter 145)
6.   Housing Code (See Chapter 154)
7.   Demolition of Buildings (See Chapter 155)
8.   Weeds (See Chapter 157)
50.05   NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
Any person, keeping, allowing, or maintaining a nuisance, as defined herein, is
guilty of a simple misdemeanor. At the discretion of the City Attorney, any
violation of this chapter may be pursued as a municipal infraction according to
the terms of Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances in lieu of criminal
prosecution. Each calendar day a violation is allowed to continue shall
constitute a separate and distinct violation.
50.06   CIVIL PENALTY.
Any person found guilty of violating this chapter shall be subject to the
penalties provided in Section 1.14 of this Code of Ordinances.
50.07   ADDITIONAL CIVIL RELIEF.
For a civil violation in addition to the penalty provided in Section 3.03, a
court of competent jurisdiction may:
1.   Order such person to remove, correct, cease, and desist, abate or
otherwise come into compliance with this Code of Ordinances.
2.   Restrain and enjoin such person from operating, conducting, or maintaining
a business contrary to this Code of Ordinances.
3.   Order such person, to repair, rehabilitate, demolish, or remove the
building, structure, or appendage.
4.   Enter any order with specific terms deemed just and equitable by the court
intended to achieve any of the purposes set forth in the subsections above.
5.   Grant the City authority to achieve any of the purposes set forth in the
subsections above with the costs and administrative fees associated therewith
being taxed to such person for collection the same manner as taxes and to be a
lien against real property as provided by the Code of Iowa.
50.08   ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
1.   In addition to or in lieu of criminal prosecution or municipal infraction
proceeding, anybody, department, agency, or official of the City which has
issued a permit, license, certificate, registration, or other authorization to
a person keeping, allowing, or maintaining a nuisance, as defined herein, may
administratively suspend or revoke said permit, license, certificate,
registration, or other authorization.
2.   In the matter of any permit, license, certificate, registration, or other
authorization for which there is a specific suspension or revocation process
set forth in this Code of Ordinances, then the suspension or revocation shall
follow that specified process, including the specified appeals process.
3.   In the matter of all permits, licenses, certificates, registrations, or
other authorizations for which there is no specified process for suspension or
revocation set forth elsewhere in this Code of Ordinances, the suspension or
revocation shall be made by the same authority issuing the permit, license,
certificate, registration, or other authorization. The appeal to any said
suspension or revocation shall be to the Council by filing a written notice of
appeal with the Clerk within 10 business days of service of notice on the
holder of said permit, license, certificate, registration, or other
authorization, or said person’s authorized agent. Service of the notice of
suspension or revocation may be by any means provided by State law for service
of original notice in a civil lawsuit or by posting in a conspicuous place on
the subject real property. Filing an appeal under this chapter does not
automatically stay the order of suspension or revocation. Upon the filing of a
written appeal, the aggrieved party may, in writing, request the Mayor to stay
the denial, suspension, or revocation. The Mayor may stay the denial,
suspension, or revocation of the permit, license, certificate, registration, or
other authorization while the appeal is pending, by filing a written notice of
stay with the Clerk and sending copies thereof to the aggrieved party and the
issuing authority.
50.09   NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
Any person keeping, allowing, or maintaining a nuisance shall have the duty to
immediately cease and desist, correct, and abate the nuisance in the manner
provided for in this chapter or State law. If a nuisance is deemed to be an
emergency by the Director of the Public Health Department, Police Chief,
Director of Parks and Recreation, Building Official, Fire Marshal, Fire Chief,
or the Mayor, the City may perform any action required by this chapter without
prior notice, citation, or arrest as provided in this chapter and assess the
actual costs and administrative fees.
50.10   EMERGENCY ACTIONS AUTHORIZED.
1.   Authority to Declare. The Mayor shall have the authority to declare a
specific nuisance as an emergency when it meets the definition of an emergency
as defined in Section 50.01.
2.   If the appropriate authority declares an emergency, the City is authorized
and empowered to order and undertake, without notice, waiting period, or right
to appeal by the owner, occupant, or other interested party as may be required
by this or any other provision of this Code emergency actions including the
following:
   A.   Any action that may be taken to abate the nuisance as provided by this
chapter.
   B.   Requiring the immediate vacation of the premises until the nuisance is
abated.
   C.   Prohibiting the occupation of the premises by anyone until the nuisance
is abated.
   D.   Requiring repairs or alterations to be completed, including
establishing deadlines for compliance.
   E.   Providing for removal of the emergency condition.
   F.   Providing for securing premises by fencing, boarding, or any other
appropriate method.
   G.   Providing for the demolition of the property in whole or part.
   H.   Perform any necessary work to render the emergency temporarily safe or
cause such other actions as deemed appropriate to eliminate such emergency
condition or situation.
   I.   Provide for the temporary closing or vacating of buildings, structures,
houses, sidewalks, streets, public ways, public places, and other property that
are adjacent to or in dangerous proximity to the emergency condition and
prohibit the same from being utilized or occupied for the time necessary to
ensure the safety of the affected area.
   J.   Employ people or contract with others to provide the necessary labor,
equipment, or materials to perform the required emergency work as expeditiously
as possible without following the requirements regarding public bidding for
contracts.
3.   Costs of Emergency Abatement. The costs for abatement of an emergency
nuisance condition, whether the work is performed by City staff, a hired
agency, contractor, or firm, shall be paid by the property owner, including any
administrative costs related to the abatement process. Costs shall be billed
and sent to the property owner for payment and are due within 30 days of the
invoice date. Unpaid invoices may be provided to the County Treasurer to place
a lien on the property as authorized by the Code of Iowa.
50.11   ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.
Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner. The notice to abate shall contain: †
1
  
   A.   Description of Nuisance. A description of what constitutes the
nuisance.
   B.   Location of Nuisance. The location of the nuisance.
   C.   Acts Necessary to Abate. A statement of the act or acts necessary to
abate the nuisance.
   D.   Reasonable Time. A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
   E.   Assessment of City Costs. A statement that if the nuisance or condition
is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within the time
prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against the property
owner.
2.   Method of Service. The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or sent
by certified mail to the property owner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
3.   Request for Hearing. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for a
hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Clerk within the time
stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance
exists, and it must be abated as ordered. The hearing will be before the
Council at a time and place fixed by the Council. The findings of the Council
shall be conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered
abated within a reasonable time under the circumstances.
4.   Abatement in Emergency. If it is determined that an emergency exists by
reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the City may
perform any action that may be required under this chapter without prior
notice. The City shall assess the costs as provided in Subsection 6 of this
section after notice to the property owner under the applicable provisions of
Subsections 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in Subsection 3.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
5.   Abatement by City. If the person notified to abate a nuisance or condition
neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the required
action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred. The
itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall pay such
expenses on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
6.   Collection of Costs. The Clerk shall send a statement of the total expense
incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has failed to abide by the
notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not been paid
within one month, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the County Treasurer and
such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same manner as, general
property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement. If the amount expended to abate
the nuisance or condition exceeds $500.00, the City may permit the assessment
to be paid in up to 10 annual installments, to be paid in the same manner and
with the same interest rates provided for assessments against benefited
property under State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)
8.   Failure to Abate. Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who shall
fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time required
and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: A suggested form of notice for the abatement of nuisances is
  included in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use
  of this administrative abatement procedure, particularly where cost of abatement
1 is more than minimal or where there is doubt as to whether or not a nuisance does
  in fact exist. If compliance is not secured following notice and hearings, we
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before proceeding with
  abatement and assessment of costs. Your attorney may recommend proceedings in
  court under Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa rather than this procedure.
50.12   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
In a declared emergency, it is unlawful for any person to enter such building
or structure for any purpose, except with the knowledge and authorization of
the authority declaring the emergency. A violation of this section is a simple
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to the penalties provided in
Section 1.14. The provisions of Chapter 153 (Building Code) are also
enforceable in addition to the provisions of this section.
50.13   FORECLOSED AND RENTAL PROPERTY.
Any real property which is subject to foreclosure, forcible entry and detainer,
eviction, or in which possession is otherwise transferred through legal process
or court action, shall be in full compliance with this Code of Ordinances
within 24 hours of the transfer of possession. Failure to comply with the
provisions of this section shall be deemed an emergency. The City is authorized
to proceed in a manner consistent with the emergency provisions set forth in
this chapter. Any person, including the property owner and, if applicable, a
landlord, violating this section is guilty of a simple misdemeanor. At the
discretion of the attorney, any violation of this chapter may be pursued as a
municipal infraction according to the terms of Chapter 3 of this Code of
Ordinances in lieu of criminal prosecution. Each calendar day a violation is
allowed to continue shall constitute a separate and distinct violation.
50.14   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section 50.10, the
requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures applicable to
municipal infractions as set forth in Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 51
JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES
 
51.01 Definitions                       51.04 Exceptions
51.02 Junk and Junk Vehicles Prohibited 51.05 Notice to Abate
51.03 Junk and Junk Vehicles a Nuisance
 
51.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles, machinery,
and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery, or appliances; iron,
steel, or other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass,
tinware, plastic or old or discarded household goods or hardware. Neatly
stacked firewood located on a side yard, or a rear yard is not considered junk.
2.   “Junk vehicle” means any vehicle legally placed in storage with the County
Treasurer or unlicensed and having any of the following characteristics:
   A.   Broken Glass. Any vehicle with a broken or cracked windshield, window,
headlight or taillight, or any other cracked or broken glass.
   B.   Broken, Loose, or Missing Part. Any vehicle with a broken, loose, or
missing fender, door, bumper, hood, steering wheel, or trunk lid.
   C.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects. Any vehicle that has become
the habitat for rats, mice, snakes, or any other vermin or insects.
   D.   Flammable Fuel. Any vehicle that contains gasoline or any other
flammable fuel.
   E.   Inoperable. Any motor vehicle that lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural parts, rendering said motor vehicle totally
inoperable, or that cannot be moved under its own power or has not been used as
an operating vehicle for a period of 30 days or more.
   F.   Defective or Obsolete Condition. Any other vehicle that, because of its
defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat to the
public health and safety.
Mere licensing of such vehicle shall not constitute a defense to the finding
that the vehicle is a junk vehicle.
3.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, except devices moved
by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and
includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination thereof.
51.02   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or allow to remain on any
private property within the corporate limits of the City any junk or junk
vehicle.
51.03   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES A NUISANCE.
It is hereby declared that any junk or junk vehicle located upon private
property, unless excepted by Section 51.04, constitutes a threat to the health
and safety of the citizens and is a nuisance within the meaning of Section
657.1 of the Code of Iowa. If any junk or junk vehicle is kept upon private
property in violation hereof, the owner of or person occupying the property
upon which it is located shall be prima facie liable for said violation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
51.04   EXCEPTIONS.
The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any junk or a junk vehicle
stored within:
1.   Structure. A garage or other enclosed structure; or
2.   Junk and Salvage Yard. An auto salvage yard or junk yard lawfully operated
within the City in compliance with Chapter 125.
3.   Other. Vehicles that are inoperable solely by reason of repair work being
done thereon, provided that the following conditions are met:
   A.   The vehicle is owned by the occupier of the premise and registered to
said person at that address;
   B.   The period of said repair work does not exceed 10 days in duration;
   C.   Said repair work is at all times conducted on a hard-surfaced driveway;
and,
   D.   No more than one automobile in need of repair is situated on the
premises at the same time.
51.05   NOTICE TO ABATE.
Upon discovery of any junk or junk vehicle located upon private property in
violation of Section 51.03, the City shall within five days initiate abatement
procedures as outlined in Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL
55.01 Definitions                  55.15 Pet Awards Prohibited
55.02 Animal Neglect               55.16 Tampering with A Rabies Vaccination
                                   Tag
55.03 Livestock Neglect            55.17 Tampering with An Electronic Handling
                                   Device
55.04 Abandonment of Cats and Dogs 55.18 Tethering Animals
55.05 Livestock                    55.19 Animals in Unattended Vehicles
55.06 At Large Prohibited          55.20 Number of Animals Limited
55.07 Damage or Interference       55.21 Stray Dogs and Cats
55.08 Annoyance or Disturbance     55.22 Dangerous Animals
55.09 Vicious Dogs                 55.23 Keeping of Dangerous Animals
                                   Prohibited
55.10 Rabies Vaccination           55.24 Regulations for Keeping Dangerous
                                   Animals
55.11 Owner’s Duty               55.25 Keeping of Vicious Animals Prohibited
55.12 Confinement                  55.26 Seizure, Impoundment, and Disposition
                                   of Vicious Animals
55.13 At Large: Impoundment        55.27 Riding of Horses Prohibited
55.14 Disposition of Animals       55.28 Fees
 
55.01   DEFINITIONS.  
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
1.   “Adult” means a person aged 19 years or older.
2.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium, including
(but not limited to) print, radio, television, sign, display, label, tag, or
articulation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
3.   “Animal” means a nonhuman vertebrate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1)
4.   “Animal control officer” means the person designated by the Council to
enforce the animal control ordinances of the City.
5.   “Animal shelter” means a facility which is used to house or contain dogs
or cats, or both, and which is owned, operated, or maintained by an
incorporated humane society, animal welfare society, society for the prevention
of cruelty to animals, or other nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare,
protection, and humane treatment of such animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
6.   “At large” means off the premises of the owner and not under the control
of a competent person, restrained within a motor vehicle, or housed in a
veterinary hospital or kennel.
7.   “Bite” means any puncture, laceration, abrasion, scratch, or break in the
skin of a human caused by an animal.
8.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.
   B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.
   C.   A solicitation to make an investment.
   D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.
9.   “Dangerous Animal” means the following: † 5
   A.   Any animal which is not naturally tame or gentle, and which is of a
wild nature or disposition, and which is capable of killing, inflicting serious
injury upon or causing disease among human beings or domestic animals and
having known tendencies as a species to do so.
   B.   Any animal declared to be dangerous by the Board of Health or City
Council.
   C.   The following animals:
      (1)   Badgers, wolverines, weasels, skunk, and mink
      (2)   Raccoons
      (3)   Bats
      (4)   Scorpions
      (5)   Opossums
      (6)   Piranhas
   D.   Any animal engaging in or found to have been trained to engage in
exhibitions of fighting.
10.   “Commercial establishment” means an animal shelter, boarding kennel,
commercial breeder, commercial kennel, dealer, pet shop, pound, public auction,
or research facility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
11.   “Fair” means any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair Board
pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted by a
fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.
   C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or concession
booths.
12.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as defined in Section
99B.1 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
13.   “Hybrid” means any offspring produced by breeding a domestic cat or
domestic dog to an animal listed as a dangerous animal per se.
14.   “Injury” means an animal’s disfigurement; the impairment of an animal’s
health; or an impairment to the functioning of an animal’s limb or organ, or
the loss of an animal’s limb or organ.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
15.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine, equine,
ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas, and emus; farm deer (as defined in
Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa); or poultry.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1)
16.   “Owner” means any person owning, keeping, sheltering, or harboring an
animal.
17.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained in a
small tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to a
rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical fish,
goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
18.   “Potentially dangerous animal” means an animal who meets one or more of
the following conditions:
   A.   Any animal that when unprovoked:
      (1)   Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment.
      (2)   Injures a domestic animal.
      (3)   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
   B.   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
19.   “Pound” means a facility for the prevention of cruelty to animals
operated by the State, a municipal corporation, or other political subdivision
of the State for the purpose of impounding or harboring seized stray, homeless,
abandoned, or unwanted dogs, cats, or other animals; or a facility operated for
such a purpose under a contract with any municipal corporation or incorporated
society.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
20.   “Research facility” means any school or college of medicine, veterinary
medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, or osteopathic medicine, or hospital, diagnostic
or research laboratories, or other educational or scientific establishment
situated in the State concerned with the investigation of, or instruction
concerning the structure or function of living organisms, the cause,
prevention, control, or cure of diseases or abnormal conditions of human beings
or animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
21.   “Veterinarian” means a veterinarian licensed pursuant to Chapter 169 of
the Code of Iowa who practices veterinary medicine in the State.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
22.   “Vicious animal” means any of the following:
   A.   Any animal, except for a dangerous animal as listed above, that has
attacked, bitten or clawed a person while running at large and the attack was
unprovoked; or,
   B.   Any animal that has exhibited vicious tendencies in present or past
conduct, including such that said animal:
      (1)   Has bitten or clawed a person or persons on two separate occasions
within a 12-month period; or,
      (2)   Did bite or claw once causing injuries above the shoulders of a
person; or,
      (3)   Could not be controlled or restrained by the owner at the time of
the attack to prevent the occurrence; or,
      (4)   Has attacked any domestic animal or fowl on three separate
occasions within a 12-month period.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Certain other dangerous animals, listed in Chapter 717F.1,
5 Paragraph 5a, of the Code of Iowa, are specifically prohibited and regulated by
  the Iowa Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship.
55.02   ANIMAL NEGLECT.
1.   It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of an animal and
confines that animal to fail to provide the animal with any of the following
conditions for the animal’s welfare:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.3)
   A.   Access to food in an amount and quality reasonably sufficient to
satisfy the animal’s basic nutrition level to the extent that the animal’s
health or life is endangered.
   B.   Access to a supply of potable water in an amount reasonably sufficient
to satisfy the animal’s basic hydration level to the extent that the animal’s
health or life is endangered.  Access to snow or ice does not satisfy this
requirement.
   C.   Sanitary conditions free from excessive animal waste or the
overcrowding of animals to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered.
   D.   Ventilated shelter reasonably sufficient to provide adequate protection
from the elements and weather conditions suitable for the age, species, and
physical condition of the animal so as to maintain the animal in a state of
good health to the extent that the animal’s health or life is endangered. The
shelter must protect the animal from wind, rain, snow, or sun and have adequate
bedding to provide reasonable protection against cold and dampness. A shelter
may include a residence, garage, barn, shed, or doghouse. All shelters shall
comply with the regulations set forth in Subsection 3 of this section.
   E.   Grooming, to the extent it is reasonably necessary to prevent adverse
health effects or suffering.
   F.   Veterinary care deemed necessary by a reasonably prudent person to
relieve an animal’s distress from any of the following:
      (1)   A condition caused by failing to provide for the animal’s welfare
as described in this section.
      (2)   An injury or illness suffered by the animal causing the animal to
suffer prolonged pain and suffering.
2.   No animal shall be hitched, tied, or fastened by any rope, chain, or cord
that is directly attached to the animal’s neck. Animals that must be tied,
hitched, or fastened to restrain them must wear a properly fitted collar or
harness, not of the choker type, provided that the proper use of choker collars
in the training of animals shall not be prohibited.
3.   Any enclosure in which an animal is kept shall be constructed of material
and in a manner that will minimize the risk of injury to the animal and
encompass sufficient usable space to keep the animal in good condition. When a
dog is confined outside a residence, the following minimum space requirements
shall be required:
 
                                                                             Pen
Size of Dog                                                                  Size
                                                                             (Square
                                                                             Feet)
Small (12 inches or less at withers or not over 20 lbs.)                     24
1.   Medium (over 12 inches and up to 20 inches at withers or not over 50 32
lbs.)
2.   Large (over 20 inches and up to 26 inches at withers or not over 75  40
lbs.)
3.   Extra-large (over 26 inches at withers or over 75 lbs.)              48
4.   An additional 16 square feet shall be required for each dog sharing the pen
with another. The minimum pen size includes a shelter.
 
4.   This section does not apply to any of the following:
   A.   A person operating a commercial establishment under a valid
authorization issued or renewed under Section 162.2A of the Code of Iowa, or a
person acting under the direction or supervision of that person, if all of the
following apply:
      (1)   The animal, as described in Subsection 1, was maintained as part of
the commercial establishment’s operation.
      (2)   In providing conditions for the welfare of the animal, as described
in Subsection 1, the person complied with the standard of care requirements
provided in Section 162.10A[1] of the Code of Iowa, including any applicable
rules adopted by the Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship applying
to: (i) a State licensee or registrant operating pursuant to Section 162.10A
[2a] or [2b] of the Code of Iowa; or (ii) a permittee operating pursuant to
Section 162.10A[2c] of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   A research facility if the research facility has been issued or renewed
a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship
pursuant to Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa, and performs functions within the
scope of accepted practices and disciplines associated with the research
facility.
55.03   LIVESTOCK NEGLECT.
1.   It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines livestock in any
place to fail to provide the livestock with care consistent with customary
animal husbandry practices, or to deprive the livestock of necessary
sustenance, or to injure or destroy livestock by any means that causes pain or
suffering in a manner inconsistent with customary animal husbandry practices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.2)
2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly, intentionally, or
negligently cause or allow any animal to endure unreasonable or unjustifiable
pain, suffering, or injury. Physical mistreatment shall include the intentional
tripping or causing to fall by its legs, lassoing or roping the legs of any
equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport, practice, or
contest and the intentional tripping of any bovine by its tail, causing any
bovine to fall by its tail, or dragging any bovine by its tail for the purpose
of entertainment, sport, practice, or context.
55.04   ABANDONMENT OF CATS AND DOGS.
It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of a cat or dog to
relinquish all rights in and duties to care for the cat or dog. This section
does not apply to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.8)
1.   The delivery of a cat or dog to another person who will accept ownership
and custody of the cat or dog.
2.   The delivery of a cat or dog to an animal shelter or that has been issued
or renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and Land
Stewardship under Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa.
3.   A person who relinquishes custody of a cat at a location in which the
person does not hold a legal or equitable interest, if previously the person
had taken custody of the cat at the same location and provided for the cat’s
sterilization by a veterinarian.
In addition to the sanctions which may be imposed by law, any person who is
found in violation of this section shall pay a penalty in the sum of $100.00
which shall be used solely for enforcement activities.
55.05   LIVESTOCK.
It is unlawful for a person to keep livestock within the City except by written
consent of the Council or except in compliance with the City’s zoning
regulations.
55.06   AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any owner to allow an animal to run at large within the
corporate limits of the City.
55.07   DAMAGE OR INTERFERENCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to allow or permit such animal to
pass upon the premises of another thereby causing damage to, or interference
with, the premises.
55.08   ANNOYANCE OR DISTURBANCE.
1.   It is unlawful for the owner of a dog to allow or permit such dog:
   A.   To cause serious annoyance or disturbance to any person or persons by
frequent, and habitual howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise; or, by running
after or chasing persons, bicycles, automobiles, or other vehicles.
   B.   To damage, soil, defile, or defecate of private property, other than
the owner’s property, or on public walks and recreation areas unless such waste
is immediately removed and properly disposed of by the owner.
2.   Penalty. In addition to the sanctions which may be imposed by law, any
person who is found in violation of this section shall pay a penalty in the sum
of $500.00 for the first offense and $750.00 for any subsequent offences which
shall be used solely for enforcement activities.
55.09   VICIOUS DOGS.
It is unlawful for any person to harbor or keep a vicious dog within the City.
A dog is deemed to be vicious when it has attacked or bitten any person without
provocation, or when propensity to attack or bite persons exists and is known
or ought reasonably to be known to the owner.
55.10   RABIES VACCINATION.
Every owner of a dog shall obtain a rabies vaccination for such animal. It is
unlawful for any person to own or have a dog in said person’s possession, four
months of age or over, which has not been vaccinated against rabies. Dogs kept
in State or federally licensed kennels and not allowed to run at large are not
subject to these vaccination requirements. A current certificate of vaccination
for rabies, signed by a licensed veterinarian administering the vaccine, shall
be required for all animals for which the vaccination is required by this
section. The owner of an animal shall at all times cause the current rabies
vaccination tag to be displayed on a collar, harness, or chain attached to the
animal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.33)
55.11   OWNER’S DUTY.
It is the duty of the owner of any dog, cat, or other animal that has bitten or
attacked a person or any person having knowledge of such bite or attack to
report this act to a local health or law enforcement official. It is the duty
of physicians and veterinarians to report to the local board of health the
existence of any animal known or suspected to be suffering from rabies.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.38)
55.12   CONFINEMENT.
If a local board of health receives information that an animal has bitten a
person or that a dog or animal is suspected of having rabies, the board shall
order the owner to confine such animal in the manner it directs. If the owner
fails to confine such animal in the manner directed, the animal shall be
apprehended and impounded by such board, and after 10 days the board may
humanely destroy the animal. If such animal is returned to its owner, the owner
shall pay the cost of impoundment. This section does not apply if a police
service dog or a horse used by a law enforcement agency and acting in the
performance of its duties has bitten a person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.39)
55.13   AT LARGE: IMPOUNDMENT.
1.   The owner of an animal shall at all times restrain such animal to prevent
it from being or running at large. An animal found at large by a police officer
or Animal Control Officer shall be seized and impounded. If the police officer
or Animal Control Officer is unable to apprehend the animal, or if the owner of
the animal refuses to relinquish the same, the officer shall serve the owner a
ticket requiring payment of an enforcement or impoundment fee.
2.   If a cat does not have a current rabies vaccination tag, the owner of such
cat shall at all times restrain such animal to prevent it from being or running
at large. A cat found at large by a police officer or Animal Control Officer,
and not wearing a current rabies vaccination tag, may, in the discretion of the
police officer or Animal Control Officer, be seized and impounded. If the
police officer or Animal Control Officer is unable to apprehend such cat, or if
the owner of the cat refuses to relinquish same, the police officer or Animal
Control Officer may serve the owner a ticket requiring payment of an
enforcement and impoundment fee.
3.   It is lawful for any person who finds an animal at large to seize and hold
the animal. Any person so seizing and holding an animal may confine it within a
fenced yard, house, garage, or other structure owned by such person, or by
physically restraining said animal on a harness, collar, or leash. The person
seizing and holding the animal shall be responsible for the humane treatment of
the animal while it is under that person’s custody and shall notify the Police
Department or Animal Control Officer within 24 hours that the animal is in said
person’s custody.
4.   An animal which appears to be suffering from rabies or infected with
disease, or which is seriously injured, or which, in the opinion of the Animal
Control Officer or police officer is vicious, shall not be released, but shall
be immediately destroyed in a humane manner.
5.   Animals which are impounded shall be placed in a City animal shelter,
licensed kennel, or other suitable place as directed by the Animal Control
Officer.
6.   When an animal has been apprehended and impounded, written notice shall be
given of such impoundment to the owner, if known, within two days. If an
impounded animal is not claimed within 10 days, excluding Sundays and holidays,
of the giving of notice, or if the owner of the animal cannot be determined
within 10 days of the date of impoundment, the animal may be disposed of as
provided in this chapter. The cost of impounding, board, keep, and any other
related costs shall be billed to the owner, if known or later identified.
7.   Any animal which has been impounded at the animal shelter may be redeemed
to the owner thereof upon:
   A.   Proof of ownership;
   B.   Payment of the board and keep fee, enforcement/impoundment fee, and any
other related costs incurred by the City;
   C.   Presentation of the City dog license for the current year, or by
purchasing such license which shall not be issued until proof of a current
rabies vaccination is presented; and
   D.   Showing proof in the form of a certificate issued and signed by a
licensed veterinarian that such animal has been properly vaccinated for rabies
or posting a $75.00 vaccination bond which may be refunded if a rabies
vaccination is obtained. Application for vaccination bond redemption and for
refund of the bond must be made within five business days of the posting of the
bond. Failure of the owner to redeem said bond shall be a prima facie proof
that vaccination has not been obtained.
8.   For purposes of this section, the Animal Control Officer or police officer
may give notice to the owner either orally, by posing a notice at the owner’s
residence, or by mail.
9.   If an animal has been running at large or has been impounded on four prior
occasions, such animal shall not be returned to the owner and may be disposed
of pursuant to this chapter.
55.14   DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
After the expiration of the 10-day impoundment period, an unredeemed animal,
either licensed or unlicensed, may, at the discretion of the Animal Control
Officer or Police Chief, be disposed of in the following manner:
1.   Be humanely destroyed; or
2.   Upon payment of an adoption fee, be adopted to a person other than the
animal’s owner, the fees for said adoption of animals to be as provided in the
prevailing schedule of fees adopted by the Council; or
3.   Be tendered to an authorized institution for the purpose of medical
experimentation.
55.15   PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717E)
1.   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or advertise
that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:
   A.   A prize for participating in a game.
   B.   A prize for participating in a fair.
   C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.
   D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract that includes
provisions unrelated to the ownership, care, or disposition of the pet.
2.   Exceptions. This section does not apply to any of the following:
   A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of Iowa if
the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet on the
premises of the pet shop.
   B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of America;
the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with outdoor
recreation, hunting, or fishing, including but not limited to the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.
55.16   TAMPERING WITH A RABIES VACCINATION TAG.
It is unlawful to tamper with a rabies vaccination tag.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.45)
1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with a rabies vaccination tag if
all of the following apply:
   A.   The person knowingly removes, damages, or destroys a rabies vaccination
tag as described in Section 351.35 of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   The rabies vaccination tag is attached to a collar worn by a dog,
including as provided in Sections 351.25 and 351.26 of the Code of Iowa.
2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
   A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized to
take action by the owner.
   B.   A peace officer.
   C.   A veterinarian.
   D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.17   TAMPERING WITH AN ELECTRONIC HANDLING DEVICE.
It is unlawful to tamper with an electronic handling device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.46)
1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with an electronic handling
device if all of the following apply:
   A.   The person knowingly removes, disables, or destroys an electronic
device designed and used to maintain custody or control of the dog or modify
the dog’s behavior.
   B.   The electronic device is attached to or worn by the dog or attached to
an item worn by the dog, including (but not limited to) a collar, harness, or
vest.
2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
   A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized to
take action by the owner.
   B.   A peace officer.
   C.   A veterinarian.
   D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.18   TETHERING ANIMALS.
Animals that:
1.   When tethered the method of tethering shall meet the following
requirements:
   A.   Animals shall not be tethered for more than 30 consecutive minutes
without adult supervision.
   B.   The tether shall be at least five times the length of the animal and
allow the animal to move freely.
   C.   The tether shall weigh no more than an eighth of the animal’s body
weight.
   D.   Tow chains are not allowed to be used as tethers.
   E.   The animal shall be tethered in a manner that ensures the animal will
not be closer than 15 feet from a public sidewalk at any time when tethered.
2.   The following exceptions shall be allowed:
   A.   Animals may be tethered outside in excess of 30 minutes when in the
presence of an adult.
   B.   Animals may remain outside and untethered in excess of 30 minutes
outside the presence of an adult when the animal is contained within a securely
fenced yard or run.
55.19   ANIMALS IN UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, confine, or allow an animal to be
confined in a motor vehicle or trailer under conditions or for periods of time
as may endanger the health or wellbeing of the animal due to heat, lack of food
or water, or any circumstances which may cause suffering, disability, or death.
55.20   NUMBER OF ANIMALS LIMITED.
No household shall have at any one time more than a total of three dogs and
cats, unless the dogs and cats are less than three months old, kept at the
household, and unless more than three dogs and cats have previously been and
are at the present time licensed in a household.
55.21   STRAY DOGS AND CATS.
No person shall allow any stray dog or cat to habitually remain or to be lodged
or fed within their home, store, yard, or enclosure, but shall turn such dog or
cat over to the animal shelter.
55.22   DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
1.   General Regulations.
   A.   No person shall own, keep, harbor, or allow to be in or upon any
premises occupied by them or under their charge or control, any dangerous
animal or potentially dangerous animal without complying with the requirements
of this chapter regarding dangerous or potentially dangerous animals.
   B.   No animal may be declared dangerous or potentially dangerous that
inflicts injury or damage on a person committing a willful trespass or other
tort upon the premises occupied by the owner or lessee of the animal or
committing or attempting to commit a crime. No animal may be declared dangerous
or potentially dangerous for taking any action to defend or protect a human
being within the immediate vicinity of the animal from an unjustified attack or
assault. No animal used in connection with lawful activities of law enforcement
officials shall be declared a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal.
2.   Responsibilities of Owners of Dangerous Animals.
   A.   Any person owning a dangerous animal must register the animal with the
City and pay a fee of $150.00.
   B.   Upon registering a dangerous dog, the owner shall display, in a
conspicuous manner, a sign on their premises warning that there is a dangerous
dog on the premises. The sign shall be visible and legible from the sidewalk
and street.
   C.   If the animal is kept outdoors, the owner shall properly confine the
animal in a pen or structure with a secure side and secure top. If the bottom
is not secured to the sides, the sides mut be embedded in the ground no less
than two feet. The pen shall be no less than six feet high and contain no less
than 50 square feet of ground space. All pens shall comply with City zoning
regulations. The structure shall be at least 25 feet from any neighboring
residential structures, or half the distance from the outdoor facility and the
residential structure, whichever is greater so as not to be offensive to the
neighboring residents.
   D.   No person owning or harboring a dangerous or vicious animal shall
permit such animal to go beyond the confined area of their premises unless the
animal is securely leashed and muzzled. The leash shall not be longer than six
feet. Retractable or flexi-leads are not allowed. The leash shall be controlled
by an adult or by a person physically capable of controlling the animal.
   E.   At the time of registration, the owner must provide the City with the
following documentation:
      (1)   Proof that the owner has liability insurance in the minimum amount
of $100,000.00.
      (2)   The animal’s rabies vaccination is current.
      (3)   The animal is licensed for the current year in conformance with
Chapter 56.
      (4)   The animal is micro chipped with a permanent ID.
   F.   Permitted dangerous animals shall be neutered or spayed so as not to
propagate vicious characteristics inherent in the progeny of the dangerous
animal.
3.   Appeal Procedure. The owner of an animal is determined to be a dangerous
animal or potentially dangerous animal shall be entitled to an appeal per the
following procedure:
   A.   Within 14 days of the date of the notice of the police officer or
Animal Control Officer’s decision that an animal is dangerous, the owner of the
animal may appeal the decision to a three-member panel appointed by the Council
and comprised of a local veterinarian, dog trainer, and a person possessing
experience with or extensive knowledge of, dog breeds, such as a dog groomer.
The owner of the animal shall send notice of their intent to appeal by
certified mail to the Animal Control Officer, with copies to the Police Chief
and Clerk. If such an appeal is filed, it shall be commenced within two weeks
of its filing. Within five days of the close of the appeal hearing, the three-
member panel shall determine whether to uphold or reverse the decision of the
police officer or Animal Control Officer.
   B.   The determination of the three-member panel shall be final and binding.
The animal shall be kept either in a secure enclosure or shall be impounded at
an animal shelter during the appeal process. Any and all costs for the
impounding of the dog shall be borne by the owner unless otherwise determined
by the panel.
4.   Violations and Penalties.
   A.   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be subject
to a fine of $500.00 and revocation of the dangerous animal permit. In the
event of permit revocation, the owner shall remove the dangerous animal from
the City limits within 24 hours or the animal shall be humanely destroyed. Each
day for which a violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   The Police Department and Animal Control Officer shall enforce this
section.
   C.   Three violations of this section shall result in mandatory euthanasia
of the dangerous animal. The Police Department or Animal Control Officer may
determine that the dog shall be euthanized after only one violation depending
on the severity of the violation.
   D.   The court may, in addition to any other fine or judgment, order the
Animal Control Officer to forthwith put the animal to death by removing the
same to the animal shelter for such purposes.
   E.   Any person found guilty of violating this section shall pay all
expenses, including shelter, food, veterinary expenses for identification or
certification of the animal, boarding and veterinary expenses necessitated by
the seizure of any animal for the protection of the public and such other
expenses as may be required for the destruction of any animal.
   F.   In the event that a dangerous animal is found at large and unattended
upon public property, park property, public right-of-way, or the property of
someone other than its owner, thereby creating a hazard to life or property,
such animal may, in the discretion of the Animal Control Officer or the Police
Chief, be destroyed if it cannot be confined or captured. The City shall be
under no duty to attempt the confinement or capture of a dangerous animal found
at large and shall have to notify the owner of such animal prior to its
destruction.
55.23   KEEPING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
No person shall keep, shelter, or harbor any dangerous animal as a pet, or act
as a custodian for such animal, temporarily or otherwise, or keep such animal
for any other purpose or in any other capacity within the City except in the
following circumstances:
1.   The keeping of dangerous animals in a public zoo, bona fide educational or
medical institution, museum, or other place where they are kept as live
specimens for the public to view or for the purpose of instruction, research,
or study.
2.   The keeping of dangerous animals for exhibition to the public by a circus,
carnival, exhibit, show, or licensed pet shop.
3.   The keeping of dangerous animals in a bona fide licensed veterinary
hospital for treatment.
4.   Any dangerous animals under the jurisdiction of and in possession of the
Iowa Department of Natural Resources.
55.24   REGULATIONS FOR KEEPING DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
Every person owning, keeping, sheltering, or harboring a dangerous animal
pursuant to Section 55.23 shall report such fact to the Animal Control Officer,
together with the following information:
1.   Every person keeping, sheltering, or harboring a dangerous animal shall at
all times keep such an animal securely confined within a cage or other
enclosure.
2.   Every person keeping, sheltering, or harboring a poisonous dangerous
animal shall be required to keep 10 doses of anti-venom on hand and current at
all times.
3.   No person owning, keeping, sheltering, or harboring a dangerous animal
shall permit or allow such animal to enter upon or traverse any public
property, park property, public right-of-way, or the property of another,
except when such animal is being transported while caged or confined.
4.   In the event that a dangerous animal is found at large and unattended upon
public property, park property, public right-of-way, or the property of someone
other than its owner, thereby creating a hazard to life or property, such
animal may, in the discretion of the Animal Control Officer or the Police
Chief, be destroyed if it cannot be confined or captured. The City shall be
under no duty to attempt the confinement or capture of a dangerous animal found
at large and shall have no duty to notify the owner of such animal prior to its
destruction.
5.   In the event that the Animal Control Officer determines that a dangerous
animal is being kept, sheltered, or harbored by any person in violation of this
chapter, the Animal Control Officer may, in their discretion, have such person
prosecuted for such violation, and may order such person to remove such
dangerous animal from the City or destroy it. Such order shall be contained in
a notice to remove dangerous animal, which notice shall be given in writing,
directed to such person, and delivered personally or by certified mail. The
order of the Animal Control Officer may be appealed to the Council.
6.   Any person desiring to appeal an order issued by the Animal Control
Officer to the Council may do so by filing a written notice of appeal with the
Clerk within seven days after receipt of the notice to remove the dangerous
animal. The notice of appeal shall be delivered personally or by certified mail
to the Clerk. The hearing of such an appeal shall be scheduled within 30 days
of the receipt of notice of appeal. After such a hearing the Council may affirm
or reverse the order of the Animal Control Officer.
7.   If the Council affirms the action of the Animal Control Officer, the
Council shall also order in its written decision that the person owning,
sheltering, harboring, or keeping such dangerous animal remove such animal from
the City or destroy it. The decision and order shall immediately be served upon
the person against whom animal control rendered in the same manner as the
notice of removal. If the order is not complied with within seven days of its
issuance, the Animal Control Officer is authorized to seize and impound such a
dangerous animal. An animal so seized shall be impounded for a period of seven
days. If at the end of the impoundment period, the person against whom the
decision and order of the Council was issued has not petitioned the District
Court for a review of the order, the Animal Control Officer shall cause the
animal to be disposed of by sale or destroyed in a humane manner. Failure to
comply with an order of the Council issued pursuant hereto shall constitute a
simple misdemeanor.
55.25   KEEPING OF VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
No person shall keep, shelter, or harbor for any reason within the City a
vicious animal except in the following circumstances:
1.   Animals under the control of a law enforcement or military agency.
2.   The keeping of guard dogs; however, guard dogs must be kept within a
structure or fenced enclosure at all times, and any guard dog found at large
may be processed as a vicious animal pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter. Any premises guarded by a guard dog shall be prominently posted with a
sign containing the wording “Guard Dog,” “Vicious Dog,” or words of similar
import, and the owner of such premises shall inform the Animal Control Officer
that a guard dog is on duty at said premises.
55.26   SEIZURE, IMPOUNDMENT, AND DISPOSTION OF VICIOUS ANIMALS.
1.   The Animal Control Officer, in their discretion or upon receipt of a
complaint alleging that a particular animal is a vicious animal, may initiate
proceedings to declare such an animal a vicious animal. A hearing on the matter
shall be conducted by the Council. The person owning, keeping, sheltering, or
harboring the animal in question shall be given not less than 24 hours written
notice of the time and place of said hearing. Said notice shall set forth the
description of the animal in question and the basis for the allegation of
viciousness and shall also state that if the animal is determined to be
vicious, the owner will be required to remove it from the City or allow it to
be destroyed. The notice shall be served upon any adult residing at the
premises where the animal is located, or may be posted on those premises if no
adult is present to accept service.
2.   If, after a hearing, the Council determines that an animal is vicious, the
Animal Control Officer shall order the person owning, sheltering, harboring, or
keeping the animal to be removed from the City or to cause it to be destroyed
in a humane manner. The order shall immediately be served upon the person
against whom animal control issued in the same manner as the notice of hearing.
If the order is not complied with within three days of its issuance, the Animal
Control Officer is authorized to seize and impound the animal. An animal so
seized shall be impounded for a period of seven days. If, at the end of the
impoundment period, the person against whom the order of the Council was issued
has not petitioned the District Court for a review of such order, the Animal
Control Officer shall cause the animal to be destroyed. Failure to comply with
an order of the Council issued pursuant hereto shall constitute a simple
misdemeanor offense.
3.   Any animal found at large which displays vicious tendencies may be
processed as a vicious animal pursuant to the foregoing, unless the animal is
so vicious that it cannot safely be apprehended, in which case the Animal
Control Officer may immediately destroy it.
4.   Any animal which has attacked or bitten any person without provocation, or
which has attacked or bitten any domestic animal or fowl on more than two
occasions within a 12-month period shall be deemed a vicious animal without
necessity for a hearing by the Council. The decision may, however, be appealed
to the Council, by presenting a written notice of appeal to the Clerk within 10
days after receiving written notice of said decision.
55.27   RIDING OF HORSES PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person to ride or lead a horse on any public sidewalk or
any other portion of the public right-of-way without a permit. A permit for
riding horses shall be applied for through the Clerk’s office and granted by
the Mayor for a fee of $5.00. Said permit shall be for a specific period of
time and shall specify the route and that the horse shall wear a diaper or
sling. All horses must be properly shod for riding on the street.
55.28   FEES.
1.   In the event that an animal is observed at large but cannot be captured
for impoundment, or in the event its owner refuses to relinquish possession of
such animal for impoundment, an enforcement or impoundment fee ticket may be
issued to its owner requiring the payment of a fee for the City’s cost in
attempting to impound the animal.
2.   In the event that an animal required to be licensed pursuant to Chapter 56
of this Code of Ordinances is not licensed or does not display the license tag
as required, an enforcement or impoundment fee ticket may be issued to its
owner requiring the payment of a fee for the City’s cost in enforcing said
provisions.
3.   In the event that an animal required to be vaccinated for rabies is not
vaccinated as required or does not display a rabies vaccination tag, an
enforcement or impoundment fee ticket may be issued to its owner requiring the
payment of a fee for the City’s cost in enforcing said requirements.
4.   In the event the owner of an animal has been served a ticket for the
payment of the enforcement and impoundment fee and fails to pay the required
amount due to the City within 30 days of the date of issuance, the person who
issued the enforcement or impoundment fee ticket shall cause a criminal
complaint to be filed in the District Court for a violation of the appropriate
section of this chapter. For purposes of this subsection, an enforcement or
impoundment fee ticket may be served by either delivering the ticket personally
to the owner or posting the ticket at the residence of the owner.
5.   A fee of $5.00 per day shall be paid to the City for boarding and keeping
any animal. Enforcement and impoundment fees are as follows:
   A.   First Occurrence   $25.00
   B.   Second Occurrence   $30.00
   C.   Third Occurrence   $40.00
   D.   Fourth and All Future Occurrences   $100.00 each
CHAPTER 56
DOG LICENSE REQUIRED
 
56.01 Annual License Required 56.06 Immunization
56.02 License Fees            56.07 Duplicate Tags
56.03 Delinquency             56.08 Transfers of Licensed Dogs
56.04 License Tags            56.09 Kennel Dogs
56.05 License Records         56.10 Animal Owner Minimum Age
 
56.01   ANNUAL LICENSE REQUIRED.
1.   Every owner of a dog over the age of three months shall procure a dog
license from the Clerk on or before January 1 of each year.
2.   Such license may be procured after January 1 and at any time for a dog
that has come into the possession or ownership of the applicant or that has
reached the age of three months after said date.
3.   The owner of a dog for which a license is required shall apply to the
Clerk on forms provided by the Clerk.
4.   The form of the application shall state the breed, sex, age, color,
markings, and name, if any, of the dog, and the address of the owner and shall
be signed by the owner. The application shall also state the date of the most
recent rabies vaccination, the type of vaccine administered, and the date the
dog shall be revaccinated.
5.   All licenses shall expire on January 1 of the year following the date of
issuance.
56.02   LICENSE FEES.
The annual license fee shall be as follows:
1.   $10.00 for each altered dog or cat.
2.   $15.00 for each unaltered dog or cat.
3.   The annual license fee will be waived after four years of consecutive
registration.
56.03   DELINQUENCY.
All license fees shall become delinquent on March 1 of the year in which they
are due and a delinquent penalty of $5.00 shall be added to each unpaid license
on and after said date.
56.04   LICENSE TAGS.
Upon receipt of the application and fee, the Clerk shall deliver or mail to the
owner a license that shall be in the form of a metal tag stamped with the
serial number of the license as shown on the record book of the Clerk, the year
in which it is issued, and the name of the City. The license tag shall be
securely fastened by the owner to a collar or harness that shall be worn at all
times by the dog for which issued. A license issued for one dog shall not be
transferable to another dog. Upon the expiration of the license, the owner
shall remove said tag from the dog.
56.05   LICENSE RECORDS.
The Clerk shall keep a book to be known as the record of licenses; such record
shall show:
1.   The serial number and date of each application for a license.
2.   The description of the dog as specified in the application, together with
the name of the owner of the dog.
3.   The date when each license tag is issued and the serial number of each
tag, the date of the most recent rabies vaccination, the type of vaccine
administered, and the date the dog shall be revaccinated.
4.   The amount of all fees paid.
5.   Such other data as may be required by law.
56.06   IMMUNIZATION.
Before a license is issued, the owner shall furnish a veterinarian’s
certificate showing that the dog for which the license is sought has been
vaccinated against rabies, and that the vaccination does not expire within six
months from the effective date of the dog license. A tag showing evidence of
proper vaccination shall at all times be attached to the collar of the dog.
56.07   DUPLICATE TAGS.
Upon the filing of an affidavit that the license tag has been lost or
destroyed, the owner may obtain another tag on the payment of $5.00 and the
Clerk shall enter in the license record the new number assigned.
56.08   TRANSFERS OF LICENSED DOGS.
Upon transfer of a licensed dog into the City, the owner shall surrender the
original license tag to the Clerk. The Clerk shall preserve the surrendered tag
and, without a license fee, issue a new license tag.
56.09   KENNEL DOGS.
Dogs kept in State or federally licensed kennels, which are kept or raised
solely for the bona fide purpose of sale and which are kept under constant
restraint, are not subject to the provisions of this chapter.
56.10   ANIMAL OWNER MINIMUM AGE.
1.   No dog or cat may be licensed unless at least one of the registered owners
of said animal is at least 18 years of age. All registered owners 18 years of
age or older shall be personally, jointly, and severally liable for compliance
with all the provisions of Chapters 55, 56, and 57.
2.   Regarding an unlicensed dog, cat, or other animal, whether or not a
license is required, all residents of the premises 18 years of age or older
shall be presumed to be the joint owners of said animal and shall be jointly
and severally liable for compliance with the provisions of Chapters 55 and 56.
CHAPTER 57
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS BREEDS
 
57.01 Definitions                  57.07 Compliance Period
57.02 Potentially Dangerous Breeds 57.08 Enforcement
                                   57.09 Authority to Euthanize Potentially
57.03 Permit Required              Dangerous Breed Declared to Be A Vicious
                                   Animal
57.04 Registration Requirements    57.10 Breed Ambassador Application
57.05 Permit Conditions            57.11 Breed Ambassador Designation
57.06 Breed Designation Appeals
 
57.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
1.   “Breed ambassador” means the status of a dog of a potentially dangerous
breed which has applied for and been approved under a special exemption.
2.   “Owner” means any person who owns, keeps, exercises control over,
maintains, or harbors a potentially dangerous breed.
3.   “Potentially dangerous breed” means the following:
   A.   A pit bull, which is defined as any dog that is an American pit bull
terrier, a Staffordshire terrier, or American Staffordshire terrier, and any
dog of mixed breeding that has the primary characteristics of an American pit
bull terrier, a Staffordshire terrier, or an American Staffordshire terrier.
The American Kennel Club and United Kennel Club standards for the above breeds
shall be on file for viewing at the City’s animal shelter.
   B.   Any other breed that is declared by ordinance.
57.02   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS BREEDS.
1.   There shall be a recognized category of dogs designated as a potentially
dangerous breed.
2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep within the City limits any
potentially dangerous breed, except in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
3.   Notwithstanding the special provisions set forth below as to keeping a
potentially dangerous breed within the City limits:
   A.   Any such animal is also subject to the provisions for designation as a
dangerous dog or as a vicious dog.
   B.   Any such animal declared to be a vicious dog shall be euthanized once
the process to declare the animal a vicious dog has been completed.
   C.   The City’s Animal Control Department may temporarily harbor and
transport any potentially dangerous breed for the purpose of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter.
   D.   An owner may transport into and temporarily hold in the City limits a
potentially dangerous breed for the purpose of transporting the dog to a
veterinarian or groomer for care, or to participate in a contest or show
sponsored by the American Kennel Club or the United Kennel Club.
57.03   PERMIT REQUIRED.
1.   Permit. A potentially dangerous breed may be kept within the City limits
only so long as the registered owner or custodian complies with the
requirements and conditions of the potentially dangerous breed permit.
2.   Permit Fee. The owner or custodian shall pay an annual permit fee of
$150.00 in addition to all other required fees, for each year that a
potentially dangerous breed is kept within the City limits.
57.04   REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
The owner of any potentially dangerous breed shall be allowed to keep such dog
within the City limits only if the owner registers the dog with the City’s
Animal Services Department on an annual basis and obtains a potentially
dangerous breed permit and a window sticker with each annual registration. As a
condition of registration, the owner shall at the time of application provide
sufficient evidence that the owner is in compliance with all of the following
requirements:
1.   Rabies Vaccination. The dog must be vaccinated against rabies by a
licensed veterinarian on an annual basis.
2.   Current City License. The owner must purchase an annual City license
according to Chapter 56 for the dog, and the dog must wear the City license tag
on its collar at all times.
3.   Microchip. The dog must be identified by means of a microchip that is
injected under its skin by a licensed veterinarian and maintained as long as
the animal is kept within the City limits.
4.   Photo. The owner must bring their potentially dangerous breed to the City
animal shelter to have its photo taken with the owner.
5.   Sterilized. The owner must provide documentary proof from a licensed
veterinarian that their dog has been spayed or neutered. This requirement shall
not apply if:
   A.   Animal Services Department receives a letter from the owner’s
veterinarian, to be confirmed by the animal services veterinarian, stating that
the dog is physically unable to reproduce or that the dog is medically
compromised to the extent that it cannot be safely sterilized;
   B.   The potentially dangerous breed is a registered AKC or UKC show dog
with points or with documentation of training for show purposes. If the owner
purchases an annual show dog permit for a fee established by the City by
resolution, or
   C.   The dog is a registered AKC or UKC dog with points, and the owner
purchases an annual breeder’s permit for a fee established by the City by
resolution with the restriction that the dog shall be allowed to produce or
sire no more than one litter per calendar year. For any additional litter
produced in any calendar year, there shall be a fine, in addition to any other
fine of $500.00 against both the sire and the bitch and $250.00 for each live
pup.
57.05   PERMIT CONDITIONS.
1.   Place of Confinement. A potentially dangerous breed must reside at the
owner’s residence or place of business.
2.   Signs. Any property wherein a potentially dangerous breed is kept,
harbored, or confined shall be posted with warning signs visible from all areas
of public access. The warning signs must:
   A.   Be no less than 10-inches by 12-inches in size.
   B.   Contain the words, “Warning: Potentially Dangerous Breed” in high
contrast lettering on a black background in English, and
   C.   Lettering must be no less than three inches high.
3.   Confinement. A potentially dangerous breed shall be confined indoors or by
means of a fence that is of adequate height and construction to prevent the
dog’s escape. Potentially dangerous breeds shall not be confined by means of an
electronic containment device, or invisible fence. When outside of an area of
confinement, a potentially dangerous breed must be restrained by means of a
secure leash held by an adult who has the ability to control the dog.
4.   Leash, Harness, and Muzzle. It shall be unlawful for any person owning,
harboring, or having the care of a potentially dangerous breed to permit such
animal to go beyond the property of such person unless the animal is under the
control of a person 19 years of age or older and restrained securely by a
harness and leash no longer than six feet and properly muzzled to reasonably
prevent the animal from biting.
5.   Liability Insurance. It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess,
or license any animal designated as a dangerous breed by a court, designated as
a potentially dangerous breed by any animal control authority, without having
evidence of a current and effective minimum $100,000.00 public liability
insurance policy to be maintained for the period of such designation or
throughout the life of the potentially dangerous breed.
6.   No Transfer of Permit. A potentially dangerous breed permit shall not
transfer to a new owner. The new owner must meet all registration requirements
within 10 days of acquiring the dog.
7.   Relocation Reported. The owner of a potentially dangerous breed may
relocate the dog to the owner’s new residence or place of business if the owner
contacts the Animal Services Department before the relocation in order to
report the new address and obtain a new window sticker. The new window sticker
must be posted at the new residence or place of business within 30 days of the
move.
8.   Maximum Number. The number of potentially dangerous breed dogs kept,
maintained, or harbored at one residence shall not exceed two.
57.06   BREED DESIGNATION APPEALS.
The owner of a dog that has been identified as a potentially dangerous breed
under this chapter shall have the right to an administrative appeal of the
breed designation by submitting a request for a hearing to the Animal Services
Department in writing within five days of the department manager’s designation
of the owner’s dog as a potentially dangerous breed. A hearing to consider
disputes and to view the dog’s physical characteristics and pedigree shall be
conducted by a committee appointed by the Mayor and composed of at least the
animal services veterinarian, an animal behaviorist (or someone with knowledge
of lots of breeds), and a citizen. The committee shall make a final
determination of the dog’s breed or predominant breed characteristics. If the
committee determines that the dog is a potentially dangerous breed, as defined
by this chapter, the owner shall have 10 days to meet all registration
requirements and to comply with all permit conditions.
57.07   COMPLIANCE PERIOD.
Within 10 days after acquiring a potentially dangerous breed, or after moving
to the City with a potentially dangerous breed, or after a potentially
dangerous breed designation has been affirmed on appeal, or after noncompliance
under this chapter has been brought to the attention of Animal Services
Department, the owner of a potentially dangerous breed must register their dog
and comply with all potentially dangerous breed regulations.
57.08   ENFORCEMENT.
1.   Dangerous Breed Regulation Violation. Failure to comply with any
potentially dangerous breed registration requirement or permit condition within
the allotted 10-day time period shall constitute a violation of this chapter
and may result in the issuance of a citation and a warrant to seize the owner’s
dog if it is not removed from the City limits pending adjudication of the
citation.
2.   Noncruelty Violations. Permits to keep a potentially dangerous breed
within the City may be revoked by the Animal Services Department upon the
owner’s second conviction for violation of the City’s noncruelty animal code
provisions. If the permit(s) is revoked, a warrant to seize the potentially
dangerous breed may be served on the owner if the dog is not removed from the
City limits. In addition, the owner shall lose their right to register any
potentially dangerous breed within the City for a period of two years.
3.   Cruelty Violations. Upon conviction of any animal cruelty charge, the
owner of a potentially dangerous breed shall lose their permit and the right to
register any potentially dangerous breed within the City for a period of 10
years. A warrant may be obtained to seize the owner’s potentially dangerous
breed dog(s) pending adjudication of the cruelty violation citation. Upon
conviction for animal cruelty and revocation of the potentially dangerous breed
permit, the owner’s potentially dangerous breed dog(s) must be removed from the
City limits or surrendered to the Nebraska Humane Society in Omaha, Nebraska.
57.09   AUTHORITY TO EUTHANIZE POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS BREED DECLARED TO BE A
VICIOUS ANIMAL.
Notwithstanding any provision of this Code of Ordinances, if a potentially
dangerous breed is declared to be a vicious animal pursuant to the provisions
of Section 57.02(3)(B) the dog shall be euthanized within 72 hours of the final
vicious dog declaration.
57.10   BREED AMBASSADOR APPLICATION.
An owner of a potentially dangerous breed may obtain a designation of “breed
ambassador” for such animal from the Animal Services Department by:
1.   Completing an application form.
2.   Payment of a fee of $25.00 per animal.
3.   Providing proof of:
   A.   Sterilization; and
   B.   Microchipping, including microchip number; and
   C.   Insurance in compliance with Section 57.05(5); and
   D.   Vaccination and license; and
   E.   Successful completion of a responsible pet ownership class and breed
ambassador class offered by a local Humane Society and an American Kennel Club
Canine Good Citizenship test administered by the Animal Services Department.
4.   Demonstrating no history of violations by the owner involving such
potentially dangerous breed.
5.   Any expense associated with compliance shall be borne by the owner.
57.11   BREED AMBASSADOR DESIGNATION.
Such designation shall be in effect for one year and may be renewed annually
upon meeting each of the requirements in Section 57.10, except that the
responsible pet ownership class shall be required only once in any five year
period, and provided, that conviction of the owner for a violation of any
provision of Chapters 55, 56, and 57 involving the potentially dangerous breed
shall result in termination of the designation effective upon the date of
conviction. The owner of a potentially dangerous breed which has been
designated a “breed ambassador” shall ensure, when such animal is not confined
in a securely fenced yard, that such animal:
1.   Wears a vest at the owner’s expense, with the words “breed ambassador” and
the breed ambassador number assigned to such potentially dangerous animal
affixed on the vest; and
2.   Is under the control of a person 19 years of age or older and is
restrained by a leash no longer than six feet and by a harness and a collar
joined with a connector attached to the leash in such a way as to provide a
redundant restraint system, but such owner shall not be required to comply with
the muzzle requirement of Section 57.05(4) for such animal.
CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
 
60.01 Title                          60.05 Reports of Traffic Accidents
60.02 Definitions                    60.06 Peace Officer’s Authority
60.03 Administration and Enforcement 60.07 Obedience to Peace Officers
60.04 Power to Direct Traffic        60.08 Parades Regulated
 
60.01   TITLE.
Chapters 60 through 70 of this Code of Ordinances may be known and cited as the
“Carter Lake Traffic Code” (and are referred to herein as the “Traffic Code”).
60.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law, such
definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)
1.   “Appropriate public media” means a public announcement by means of
broadcasts or telecasts from local radio and television stations.
2.   “Business District” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway when 50 percent or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 300
feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business.
3.   “Hard surfaced” means concrete, asphalt or brick, “crushed run” rock, if
the rock is no less than three inches in depth and enclosed in a hard surface
enclosure around the sides of the “crushed run” rock, by bricks, blocks,
retaining wall or other solid wall confining and containing the “crushed run”
rock.
4.   “MPH” means miles per hour.
5.   “Parade” means any march or procession of persons or vehicles organized
for marching or moving on the streets in an organized fashion or manner or any
march or procession of persons or vehicles represented or advertised to the
public as a parade.
6.   “Park” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
7.   “Peace officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
8.   “Pedestrian” means a person afoot or a person using a pedestrian
conveyance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(51))
9.   “Pedestrian conveyance” means any human-powered device by which a
pedestrian may move other than by walking or by which a pedestrian may move
another person, including but not limited to a wheelchair, stroller,
skateboard, scooter, or other similar device. Pedestrian conveyance also
includes an electric personal assistive mobility device and any other device
used to move a person sitting or standing on the device regardless of whether
the device is powered by an electric motor, so long as the electric motor
produces less than 750 watts. Pedestrian conveyance does not include a bicycle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(51A))
10.   “Residence district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway not comprising a business, suburban, or school district, where 40
percent or more of the frontage on such a highway for a distance of 300 feet or
more is occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use for
business.
11.   “School district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of 200 feet in either direction from a schoolhouse.
12.   “Stand” or “standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving
or discharging passengers.
13.   “Stop” or “stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a vehicle,
even momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control sign or signal.
14.   “Suburban district” means all other parts of the City not included in the
business, school, or residence districts.
15.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for the purpose
of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
16.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway. Vehicle does not
include:
   A.   Any device moved by human power, including a low-speed electric
bicycle.
   B.   Any device used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   C.   Any personal delivery device operated pursuant to Chapter 321O of the
Code of Iowa.
   D.   Any integral part of a truck tractor or road tractor which is mounted
on the frame of the truck tractor or road tractor immediately behind the cab
and which may be used to transport person and property, but which cannot be
drawn upon the highway by the truck tractor or another motor vehicle.
   E.   Any steering axle, dolly, auxiliary axle, or other integral part of
another vehicle which in and of itself is incapable of commercially
transporting any person or property but is used primarily to support another
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(90))
60.03   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
Provisions of this Traffic Code and State law relating to motor vehicles and
law of the road are enforced by the Police Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
60.04   POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
A peace officer or, in the absence of a peace officer, any officer of the Fire
Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all traffic by
voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws. In the event of an
emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require, notwithstanding the
provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 and 321.236[2])
60.05   REPORTS OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the City
shall file a report as and when required by the Iowa Department of
Transportation. A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for the
confidential use of peace officers and shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)
60.06   PEACE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.
A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle with
reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading, or other manifest
of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle. A peace officer having probable cause to stop a vehicle may require
exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)
60.07   OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control, or regulate traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)
60.08   PARADES REGULATED.
No person shall conduct or cause any parade on any street except as provided
herein:
1.   Permit Required. No parade shall be conducted without first obtaining a
written permit from the Council. Such permit shall state the time and date for
the parade to be held and the streets or general route therefor. Such written
permit granted to the person organizing or sponsoring the parade shall be
permission for all participants therein to parade when such participants have
been invited by the permittee to participate therein. A fee in the amount of
$0.00 shall be required for such a permit.
2.   Parade Not a Street Obstruction. Any parade for which a permit has been
issued as herein required, and the persons lawfully participating therein,
shall not be deemed an obstruction of the streets notwithstanding the
provisions of any other ordinance to the contrary.
3.   Control by Police and Firefighters. Persons participating in any parade
shall at all times be subject to the lawful orders and directions in the
performance of their duties of law enforcement personnel and members of the
Fire Department.
CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
 
61.01 Installation  61.04 Standards
61.02 Crosswalks    61.05 Compliance
61.03 Traffic Lanes
 
61.01   INSTALLATION.
The Police Chief shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control
devices when and as required under this Traffic Code or under State law or
emergency or temporary traffic control devices for the duration of an emergency
or temporary condition as traffic conditions may require to regulate, guide or
warn traffic. The Police Chief shall keep a record of all such traffic control
devices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.02   CROSSWALKS.
The Police Chief is hereby authorized, subject to approval of the Council by
resolution, to designate and maintain crosswalks by appropriate traffic control
devices at intersections where, due to traffic conditions, there is particular
danger to pedestrians crossing the street or roadway, and at such other places
as traffic conditions require.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.03   TRAFFIC LANES.
The Police Chief is hereby authorized to mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as traffic conditions require, consistent with this
Traffic Code. Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.04   STANDARDS.
Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The Manual
of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.05   COMPLIANCE.
No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official traffic
control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless
at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to the exceptions
granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under Section 321.231 and
321.231A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
 
62.01 Violation of Regulations 62.05 Quiet Zones
62.02 Play Streets Designated  62.06 Obstructing View at Intersections
62.03 Vehicles on Sidewalks    62.07 Milling
62.04 Clinging to Vehicle
 
62.01   VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of a
peace officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or who
fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa statutory
laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in
violation of this section. These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
1.   Section 321.17 – Misdemeanor to violate registration provisions.
2.   Section 321.32 – Registration card, carried and exhibited; exception.
3.   Section 321.37 – Display of plates.
4.   Section 321.38 – Plates, method of attaching, imitations prohibited.
5.   Section 321.57 – Operation under special plates.
6.   Section 321.67 – Certificate of title must be executed.
7.   Section 321.78 – Injuring or tampering with vehicle.
8.   Section 321.79 – Intent to injure.
9.   Section 321.91 – Limitation on liability; penalty for abandonment.
10.   Section 321.98 – Operation without registration.
11.   Section 321.99 – Fraudulent use of registration.
12.   Section 321.104 – Penal offenses against title law.
13.   Section 321.115 – Antique vehicles; model year plates permitted.
14.   Section 321.174 – Operators licensed; operation of commercial vehicles.
15.   Section 321.174A – Operation of motor vehicle with expired license.
16.   Section 321.180 – Instruction permits, commercial learner’s permits, and
chauffeur’s instruction permits.
17.   Section 321.180B – Graduated driver’s licenses for persons aged fourteen
through seventeen.
18.   Section 321.193 – Restrictions on licenses; penalty.
19.   Section 321.194 – Special minors’ restricted license.
20.   Section 321.208A – Operation in violation of out-of-service order;
penalties.
21.   Section 321.216 – Unlawful use of license and nonoperator’s
identification card; penalty.
22.   Section 321.216B – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain alcohol.
23.   Section 321.216C – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain tobacco, tobacco products
alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes.
24.   Section 321.218 – Operating without valid driver’s license or when
disqualified; penalties.
25.   Section 321.219 – Permitting unauthorized minor to drive.
26.   Section 321.220 – Permitting unauthorized person to drive.
27.   Section 321.221 – Employing unlicensed chauffeur.
28.   Section 321.222 – Renting motor vehicle to another.
29.   Section 321.223 – Driver’s license inspection for motor vehicle rental.
30.   Section 321.224 – Record kept.
31.   Section 321.232 – Speed detection jamming devices; penalty.
32.   Section 321.234A – All-terrain vehicles, highway use.
33.   Section 321.235A – Electric personal assistive mobility devices.
34.   Section 321.235B – Low-speed electric bicycles.
35.   Section 321.247 – Golf cart operation on City streets.
36.   Section 321.257 – Official traffic control signal.
37.   Section 321.259 – Unauthorized signs, signals or markings.
38.   Section 321.260 – Interference with devices, signs, or signals; unlawful
possession; traffic signal preemption devices.
39.   Section 321.262 – Leaving scene of traffic accident prohibited; vehicle
damage only; removal of vehicles.
40.   Section 321.263 – Information and aid; leaving scene of personal injury
accident.
41.   Section 321.264 – Striking unattended vehicle.
42.   Section 321.265 – Striking fixtures upon a highway.
43.   Section 321.266 – Reporting accidents.
44.   Section 321.275 – Operation of motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
45.   Section 321.276 – Use of electronic communication device while driving;
text-messaging.
46.   Section 321.277 – Reckless driving.
47.   Section 321.277A – Careless driving.
48.   Section 321.278 – Drag racing prohibited.
49.   Section 321.281 – Actions against bicyclists.
50.   Section 321.284 – Open container in motor vehicles, drivers.
51.   Section 321.284A – Open container in motor vehicles, passengers.
52.   Section 321.288 – Control of vehicle; reduced speed.
53.   Section 321.295 – Limitation on bridge or elevated structures.
54.   Section 321.297 – Driving on right-hand side of roadways; exceptions.
55.   Section 321.298 – Meeting and turning to right.
56.   Section 321.299 – Overtaking a vehicle.
57.   Section 321.302 – Overtaking and passing.
58.   Section 321.303 – Limitations on overtaking on the left.
59.   Section 321.304 – Prohibited passing.
60.   Section 321.305 – One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands.
61.   Section 321.306 – Roadways laned for traffic.
62.   Section 321.307 – Following too closely.
63.   Section 321.309 – Towing.
64.   Section 321.310 – Towing four-wheel trailers.
65.   Section 321.312 – Turning on curve or crest of grade.
66.   Section 321.313 – Starting parked vehicle.
67.   Section 321.314 – When signal required.
68.   Section 321.315 – Signal continuous.
69.   Section 321.316 – Stopping.
70.   Section 321.317 – Signals by hand and arm or signal device.
71.   Section 321.318 – Method of giving hand and arm signals.
72.   Section 321.319 – Entering intersections from different highways.
73.   Section 321.320 – Left turns; yielding.
74.   Section 321.321 – Entering through highways.
75.   Section 321.322 – Vehicles entering stop or yield intersection.
76.   Section 321.323 – Moving vehicle backward on highway.
77.   Section 321.323A – Approaching certain stationary vehicles.
78.   Section 321.324 – Operation on approach of emergency vehicles.
79.   Section 321.324A – Funeral processions.
80.   Section 321.329 – Duty of driver; pedestrians crossing or working on
highways.
81.   Section 321.330 – Use of crosswalks.
82.   Section 321.332 – White canes restricted to blind persons.
83.   Section 321.333 – Duty of drivers.
84.   Section 321.340 – Driving through safety zone.
85.   Section 321.341 – Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
86.   Section 321.342 – Stop at certain railroad crossings; posting warning.
87.   Section 321.343 – Certain vehicles must stop.
88.   Section 321.344 – Heavy equipment at crossing.
89.   Section 321.344B – Immediate safety threat; penalty.
90.   Section 321.354 – Stopping on traveled way.
91.   Section 321.359 – Moving other vehicle.
92.   Section 321.362 – Unattended motor vehicle.
93.   Section 321.363 – Obstruction to driver’s view.
94.   Section 321.364 – Preventing contamination of food by hazardous material.
95.   Section 321.365 – Coasting prohibited.
96.   Section 321.366 – Acts prohibited on fully-controlled access facilities.
97.   Section 321.367 – Following fire apparatus.
98.   Section 321.368 – Crossing fire hose.
99.   Section 321.369 – Putting debris on highway.
100.   Section 321.370 – Removing injurious material.
101.   Section 321.371 – Clearing up wrecks.
102.   Section 321.372 – Discharging pupils, stopping requirements; penalties.
103.   Section 321.381 – Movement of unsafe or improperly equipped vehicles.
104.   Section 321.381A – Operation of low-speed vehicles.
105.   Section 321.382 – Upgrade pulls; minimum speed.
106.   Section 321.383 – Exceptions; slow vehicles identified.
107.   Section 321.384 – When lighted lamps required.
108.   Section 321.385 – Head lamps on motor vehicles.
109.   Section 321.386 – Head lamps on motorcycles, motorized bicycles, and
all-terrain vehicles.
110.   Section 321.387 – Rear lamps.
111.   Section 321.388 – Illuminating plates.
112.   Section 321.389 – Reflector requirement.
113.   Section 321.390 – Reflector requirements.
114.   Section 321.392 – Clearance and identification lights.
115.   Section 321.393 – Color and mounting.
116.   Section 321.394 – Lamp or flag on projecting load.
117.   Section 321.395 – Lamps on parked vehicles.
118.   Section 321.398 – Lamps on other vehicles and equipment.
119.   Section 321.402 – Spot lamps.
120.   Section 321.403 – Auxiliary driving lamps.
121.   Section 321.404 – Signal lamps and signal devices.
122.   Section 321.404A – Light-restricting devices prohibited.
123.   Section 321.405 – Self-illumination.
124.   Section 321.408 – Back-up lamps.
125.   Section 321.409 – Mandatory lighting equipment.
126.   Section 321.415 – Required usage of lighting devices.
127.   Section 321.417 – Single-beam road-lighting equipment.
128.   Section 321.418 – Alternate road-lighting equipment.
129.   Section 321.419 – Number of driving lamps required or permitted.
130.   Section 321.420 – Number of lamps lighted.
131.   Section 321.421 – Special restrictions on lamps.
132.   Section 321.422 – Red light in front, rear lights.
133.   Section 321.423 – Flashing lights.
134.   Section 321.430 – Brake, hitch, and control requirements.
135.   Section 321.431 – Performance ability.
136.   Section 321.432 – Horns and warning devices.
137.   Section 321.433 – Sirens, whistles, air horns, and bells prohibited.
138.   Section 321.434 – Bicycle sirens or whistles.
139.   Section 321.436 – Mufflers, prevention of noise.
140.   Section 321.437 – Mirrors.
141.   Section 321.438 – Windshields and windows.
142.   Section 321.439 – Windshield wipers.
143.   Section 321.440 – Restrictions as to tire equipment.
144.   Section 321.441 – Metal tires prohibited.
145.   Section 321.442 – Projections on wheels.
146.   Section 321.444 – Safety glass.
147.   Section 321.445 – Safety belts and safety harnesses; use required.
148.   Section 321.446 – Child restraint devices.
149.   Section 321.449 – Motor carrier safety rules.
150.   Section 321.449A – Rail crew transport drivers.
151.   Section 321.449B – Texting or using a mobile telephone while operating a
commercial motor vehicle.
152.   Section 321.450 – Hazardous materials transportation regulations.
153.   Section 321.454 – Width of vehicles.
154.   Section 321.455 – Projecting loads on passenger vehicles.
155.   Section 321.456 – Height of vehicles.
156.   Section 321.457 – Maximum length.
157.   Section 321.458 – Loading beyond front.
158.   Section 321.460 – Spilling loads on highways.
159.   Section 321.461 – Trailers and towed vehicles.
160.   Section 321.462 – Drawbars and safety chains.
161.   Section 321.463 – Maximum gross weight; exceptions, penalties.
162.   Section 321.465 – Weighing vehicles and removal of excess.
163.   Section 321.466 – Increased loading capacity; reregistration.
62.02   PLAY STREETS DESIGNATED.
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof as
a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion
thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences are
within such closed area, and then any said driver shall exercise the greatest
care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
62.03   VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area except
at a driveway.
62.04   CLINGING TO VEHICLE.
No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
in-line skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or
herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
62.05   QUIET ZONES.
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
62.06   OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to obstruct
the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a clear view of
traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets. Any such obstruction
is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty may be abated in
the manner provided by Chapter 50.
62.07   MILLING.
It is unlawful to drive or operate a vehicle, either singly or with others, in
any processional milling or repeated movement over any street to the
interference with normal traffic use, or to the annoyance or offense of any
person.
CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS
 
63.01 General                             63.04 Special Speed Zones
63.02 State Code Speed Limits             63.05 Minimum Speed
63.03 Parks, Cemeteries, and Parking Lots 63.06 Controlled Access Facilities
 
63.01   GENERAL.
Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and proper,
having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and of any
other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on any
street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)
63.02   STATE CODE SPEED LIMITS.
The following speed limits are established in Section 321.285 of the Code of
Iowa and any speed in excess thereof is unlawful unless specifically designated
otherwise in this chapter as a special speed zone.
1.   Business District – 20 MPH.
2.   Residence or School District – 25 MPH.
3.   Suburban District – 45 MPH.
63.03   PARKS, CEMETERIES, AND PARKING LOTS.
A speed in excess of 15 MPH in any public park, cemetery, or parking lot,
unless specifically designated otherwise in this chapter, is unlawful.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[5])
63.04   SPECIAL SPEED ZONES.
In accordance with requirements of the Iowa Department of Transportation, or
whenever the Council shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that any speed limit listed in Section 63.02 is greater
or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist at any
intersection or other place or upon any part of the City street system, the
Council shall determine and adopt by ordinance such higher or lower speed limit
as it deems reasonable and safe at such location. The following special speed
zones have been established:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290)
1.   Special 15 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 15 MPH is unlawful on any
of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   Except as provided in Subsection 2 of this section, on any residential
district street within the City;
   B.   On any school district street within the City during the school year.
2.   Special 30 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 30 MPH is unlawful on any
of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   On Avenue H from the east City limits to the west City limits;
   B.   On Avenue Q from Ninth Street to Thirteenth Street;
   C.   On Locust Street from the east City limits to the west City limits;
   D.   On Ninth Street from Avenue H to the lake;
   E.   On Thirteenth Street from Locust Street to Avenue Q.
63.05   MINIMUM SPEED.
A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)
63.06   CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES.
Speed limits on controlled access facilities are as specified in Chapter 140 of
this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS
 
64.01 Turning at Intersections 64.03 Left Turn for Parking
64.02 U-Turns                  64.04 Right Turn Only
 
64.01   TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)
1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half
of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street shall
be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the centerline
thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it enters the
intersection. A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way street shall be
made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street being entered upon
leaving the intersection.
The Police Chief may cause markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or
adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic conditions
require, that a different course from that specified above be traveled by
vehicles turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons or signs are so
placed, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other
than as directed and required by such markers, buttons, or signs.
64.02   U-TURNS.
It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection;
however, U-turns are prohibited within the Business District at the following
designated intersections and at intersections where there are automatic traffic
signals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[9])
1.   At the intersection of Locust Street and Thirteenth Street.
64.03   LEFT TURN FOR PARKING.
No person shall make a left-hand turn, crossing the centerline of the street,
for the purpose of parking on said street.
64.04   RIGHT TURN ONLY.
Vehicular traffic entering onto Locust Street at the stop light on the south
side of Locust Street shall turn right only between the hours of 9:00 p.m. to
6:00 a.m. on every day of the week.
CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
 
65.01 Through Streets              65.06 School Stops
65.02 Stop Required                65.07 Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk
65.03 Three-Way Stop Intersections 65.08 Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed
65.04 Four-Way Stop Intersections  65.09 Pedestrians’ Right-of-Way
65.05 Yield Required               65.10 Official Traffic Controls
 
65.01   THROUGH STREETS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop, unless a yield is permitted by this
chapter, before entering an intersection with the following designated through
streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   Iowa Highway 165 for its entire length within the City.
2.   Locust Street, from the west City limits to the east City limits.
3.   Thirteenth Street, from Locust Street to Avenue Q.
65.02   STOP REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   Avenue H. Vehicles traveling east on Avenue H shall stop at Fifth Street.
2.   Avenue H. Vehicles traveling west on Avenue H shall stop at Ninth Street.
3.   Avenue J. Vehicles traveling west on Avenue J shall stop at Fifth Street.
4.   Avenue J. Vehicles traveling east and west on Avenue J shall stop at Ninth
Street.
5.   Avenue K. Vehicles traveling east and west on Avenue K shall stop at Ninth
Street.
6.   Avenue K. Vehicles traveling east on Avenue K shall stop at Fifth Street.
7.   Avenue N. Vehicles traveling east on Avenue N shall stop at Seventeenth
Street.
8.   Avenue O. Vehicles traveling west on Avenue O shall stop at Ninth Street.
9.   Avenue O. Vehicles traveling east on Avenue O shall stop at Seventeenth
Street.
10.   Avenue P. Vehicles traveling east and west on Avenue P shall stop at
Ninth Street.
11.   Avenue Q. Vehicles traveling east and west on Avenue Q shall stop at
Seventh Street.
12.   Avenue Q. Vehicles traveling east and west on Avenue Q shall stop at
Shoal Point.
13.   Cachelin Drive. Vehicles traveling west on Cachelin Drive shall stop at
Ninth Street.
14.   Cachelin Drive. Vehicles traveling east on Cachelin Drive shall stop at
Seventeenth Street.
15.   Carter Lake Club. Vehicles exiting Carter Lake Club shall stop at
Carolina Drive, Avenue Q, and Ninth Street.
16.   Coronado Circle. Vehicles traveling east on Coronado Circle shall stop at
Ninth Street.
17.   Dorene Boulevard. Vehicles traveling west on Dorene Boulevard shall stop
at Eleventh Street.
18.   Dorene Boulevard. Vehicles traveling south on Dorene Boulevard shall stop
at Holiday Drive
19.   Dorene Boulevard. Vehicles traveling east on Dorene Boulevard shall stop
at Surfwood Drive.
20.   Dorene Boulevard. Vehicles traveling north on Dorene Boulevard shall stop
at Willow Drive.
21.   Eleventh Street. Vehicles traveling south on Eleventh Street shall stop
at Avenue K.
22.   Eleventh Street. Vehicles traveling south on Eleventh Street shall stop
at Willow Drive.
23.   Fifth Street. Vehicles traveling south on Fifth Street shall stop at
Avenue H.
24.   Fifth Street. Vehicles traveling north on Fifth Street shall stop at
Avenue K.
25.   Fourteenth Street. Vehicles traveling south on Fourteenth Street shall
stop at Avenue Q.
26.   Hiatt Street. Vehicles traveling west on Hiatt Street shall stop at Ninth
Street.
27.   Hiatt Street. Vehicles traveling east on Hiatt Street shall stop at
Seventeenth Street.
28.   Janbrook Boulevard. Vehicles traveling west Janbrook Boulevard shall stop
at Eleventh Street.
29.   Janbrook Boulevard. Vehicles traveling east on Janbrook Boulevard shall
stop at Surfwood Drive.
30.   Lindwood Drive. Vehicles traveling south on Lindwood Drive shall stop at
Avenue K.
31.   Lindwood Drive. Vehicles traveling west on Lindwood Drive shall stop at
Eleventh Street.
32.   Maybrey Lane. Vehicles traveling north on Maybrey Lane shall stop at
Avenue K.
33.   Mayper Drive. Vehicles traveling west on Mayper Drive shall stop at
Eleventh Street.
34.   Murray Avenue. Vehicles traveling west on Murray Avenue shall stop at
Fifteenth Street.
35.   Murray Avenue. Vehicles traveling east on Murray Avenue shall stop at
Seventeenth Street.
36.   Nakoma Lane. Vehicles traveling north on Nakoma Lane shall stop at Avenue
K.
37.   Ninth Street. Vehicles traveling south on Ninth Street shall stop at
Avenue H.
38.   Seventh Street. Vehicles traveling south on Seventh Street shall stop at
Steele Avenue.
39.   Shoal Circle. Vehicles traveling south on Shoal Circle shall stop at
Seventeenth Street.
40.   Shoal Drive. Vehicles traveling west on Shoal Drive shall stop at
Carolina Drive.
41.   Shoal Drive. Vehicles traveling east on Shoal Drive shall stop at
Fourteenth Street.
42.   Shoal Point. Vehicles traveling south on Shoal Point shall stop at Avenue
Q.
43.   Silver Lane. Vehicles traveling west on Silver Lane shall stop at Ninth
Street.
44.   Silver Lane. Vehicles traveling east on Silver Lane shall stop at
Seventeenth Street.
45.   Steele Avenue. Vehicles traveling east on Steele Avenue shall stop at
Ninth Street.
46.   Stella Avenue. Vehicles traveling west on Stella Avenue shall stop at
Fifteenth Street.
47.   Stella Avenue. Vehicles traveling east on Stella Avenue shall stop at
Seventeenth Street.
48.   Willow Drive. Vehicles traveling east on Willow Drive shall stop at
Dorene Boulevard.
49.   Wood Avenue. Vehicles traveling east on Wood Avenue shall stop at Ninth
Street.
65.03   THREE-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.  
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following designated
three-way stop intersections:
51.   1.   Eleventh Street and Redick Boulevard. Vehicles approaching the
intersection of Eleventh Street and Redick Boulevard from the north, east, and
west shall stop before entering the intersection.
52.   2.   Eleventh Street and Willow Drive. Vehicles approaching the
intersection of Eleventh Street and Willow Drive from the south, east, and west
shall stop before entering the intersection.
53.   3.   Fifteenth Street and Redick Boulevard. Vehicles approaching the
intersection of Fifteenth Street and Redick Boulevard from the east, west, and
north shall stop before entering such intersection.
54.   4.   Ninth Street and Willow Drive. Vehicles approaching the intersection
of Ninth Street and Willow Drive from the east, north, and south shall stop
before entering the intersection.
55.   5.   Seventeenth Street and Redick Boulevard. Vehicles approaching the
intersection of Seventeenth Street and Redick Boulevard from the west, north,
and south shall stop before entering such intersection.
65.04   FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following designated
four-way stop intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   Intersection of Avenue N and Fifteenth Street.
2.   Intersection of Avenue P and Fifteenth Street.
3.   Intersection of Avenue Q and Ninth Street.
4.   Intersection of Avenue Q and Thirteenth Street.
5.   Intersection of Cachelin Drive and Fifteenth Street.
6.   Intersection of Fifth Street and Avenue H.
7.   Intersection of Fifteenth Street and Walker Street.
8.   Intersection of Hiatt Street and Fifteenth Street.
9.   Intersection of Locust Street and Fifth Street.
10.   Intersection of Locust Street and Ninth Street.
11.   Intersection of Ninth Street and Avenue H.
12.   Intersection of Ninth Street and Redick Boulevard.
13.   Intersection of Silver Lane and Fifteenth Street.
14.   Intersection of Thirteenth Street and Willow Drive.
65.05   YIELD REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall yield in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   -NONE-
65.06   SCHOOL STOPS.
At the following school crossing zones every driver of a vehicle approaching
said zone shall bring the vehicle to a full stop at a point 10 feet from the
approach side of the crosswalk marked by an authorized school stop sign and
thereafter proceed in a careful and prudent manner until the vehicle shall have
passed through such school crossing zone.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.249)
1.   Intersection of Redick Boulevard and Eleventh Street.
2.   Intersection of Redick Boulevard and Thirteenth Street.
65.07   STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.
The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when able to do
so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)
65.08   STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.
Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.
65.09   PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY.
Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver of a
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need be, to
so yield to a pedestrian or a person riding a bicycle crossing the roadway
within any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
65.10   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROLS.
Every driver shall observe and comply with the directions provided by official
traffic control signals at the following intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
1.   Intersection of Locust Street and Thirteenth Street.
2.   Intersection of Redick Boulevard and Thirteenth Street.
CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
 
66.01 Temporary Embargo                  66.04 Load Limits on Bridges
66.02 Permits for Excess Size and Weight 66.05 Truck Routes
66.03 Load Limits Upon Certain Streets
 
66.01   TEMPORARY EMBARGO.
If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of deterioration,
rain, snow or other climatic conditions that certain streets will be seriously
damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an amount specified by
the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets so designated by such
signs erected in accordance with Chapter 61 of this Traffic Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 and 472)
66.02   PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
The Council may, upon application and good cause being shown, issue a special
permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the maximum
specified by State law or the City over those streets or bridges named in the
permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for which the City is
responsible for maintenance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 321E.2)
66.03   LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs at
any time upon any of the following streets or parts of streets:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 475)
1.   Six-ton limit on Locust Street from east City limits to west City limits.
66.04   LOAD LIMITS ON BRIDGES.
Where it has been determined that any City bridge has a capacity less than the
maximum permitted on the streets of the City, or on the street serving the
bridge, the Council may cause to be posted and maintained signs, in accordance
with Chapter 61 of this Traffic Code, on said bridge and at suitable distances
ahead of the entrances thereof to warn drivers of such maximum load limits, and
no person shall drive a vehicle weighing, loaded or unloaded, upon said bridge
in excess of such posted limit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471)
66.05   TRUCK ROUTES.
Truck route regulations are established as follows:
1.   Truck Routes Designated. Every motor vehicle weighing six tons or more,
when loaded or empty, having no fixed terminal within the City or making no
scheduled or definite stops within the City for the purpose of loading or
unloading shall travel over or upon the following streets within the City and
none other:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
   A.   Avenue H from east City limits to west City limits.
   B.   Any State or federal highway.
   C.   Ninth Street from Avenue H to Avenue J.
   D.   Fifth Street from Avenue H to Avenue J.
   E.   Avenue J between Fifth Street and Ninth Street.
2.   Deliveries Off Truck Route. Any motor vehicle weighing six tons or more,
when loaded or empty, having a fixed terminal, making a scheduled or definite
stop within the City for the purpose of loading or unloading shall proceed over
or upon the designated routes set out in this section to the nearest point of
its scheduled or definite stop and shall proceed thereto, load or unload, and
return by the most direct route to its point of departure from said designated
route.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
3.   Employer’s Responsibility. The owner or any other person employing or
otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle shall not require or knowingly
permit the operation of such vehicle upon a street in any manner contrary to
this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS
 
67.01 Walking in Street 67.03 Pedestrian Crossing
67.02 Hitchhiking       67.04 Use of Sidewalks
 
67.01   WALKING IN STREET.
Pedestrians shall at all times when walking on or along a street, walk on the
left side of the street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)
67.02   HITCHHIKING.
No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)
67.03   PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)
67.04   USE OF SIDEWALKS.
Where sidewalks are provided it is unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along
and upon an adjacent street.
CHAPTER 68
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
68.01   ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.
Upon the following streets and alleys, vehicular traffic, other than permitted
cross traffic, shall move only in the indicated direction when appropriate
signs are in place.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[4])
1.   -NONE-
CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS
 
69.01 Park Adjacent to Curb                69.08 No Parking Zones
69.02 Parking on One-Way Streets           69.09 Truck Parking Limited
69.03 Angle Parking                        69.10 Snow Routes
69.04 Manner of Angle Parking              69.11 Snow Emergency
69.05 Parking for Certain Purposes Illegal 69.12 Fire Lanes
69.06 Parking Prohibited                   69.13 Controlled Access Facilities
69.07 Persons with Disabilities Parking
 
69.01   PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with
the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and
with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking and
vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.02   PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in
the case of angle parking.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.03   ANGLE PARKING.
Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
-NONE-
69.04   MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
Upon those streets or portions of streets that have been signed or marked for
angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an angle
to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as indicated
by such signs and markings. No part of any vehicle or the load thereon, when
said vehicle is parked within a diagonal parking district, shall extend into
the roadway more than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right angles to
the adjacent curb or edge of roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.05   PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.
No person shall park a vehicle upon public property for more than 48 hours,
unless otherwise limited under the provisions of this chapter, or for any of
the following principal purposes:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   Sale. Displaying such vehicle for sale.
2.   Repairing. For lubricating, repairing or for commercial washing of such
vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency.
3.   Advertising. Displaying advertising.
4.   Merchandise Sales. Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a duly
established marketplace or when authorized or licensed under this Code.
69.06   PARKING PROHIBITED.
No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
1.   Crosswalk. On a crosswalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[5])
2.   Center Parkway. On the center parkway or dividing area of any divided
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
3.   Mailboxes. Within 20 feet on either side of a mailbox that is so placed
and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from vehicles on the
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
4.   Sidewalks. On or across a sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[1])
5.   Driveway. In front of a public or private driveway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[2])
6.   Intersection. Within an intersection or within 10 feet of an intersection
of any street or alley.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[3])
7.   Fire Hydrant. Within five feet of a fire hydrant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[4])
8.   Stop Sign or Signal. Within 10 feet upon the approach to any flashing
beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[6])
9.   Railroad Crossing. Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red
light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[8])
10.   Fire Station. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of said entrance when properly sign posted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[9])
11.   Excavations. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction
when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[10])
12.   Double Parking. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at
the edge or curb of a street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[11])
13.   Hazardous Locations. When, because of restricted visibility or when
standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic, or
when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[13])
14.   Churches, Nursing Homes, and Other Buildings. A space of 50 feet is
hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre, auditorium,
hotel having more than 25 sleeping rooms, hospital, nursing home, taxicab
stand, bus depot, church, or other building where large assemblages of people
are being held, within which space, when clearly marked as such, no motor
vehicle shall be left standing, parked or stopped except in taking on or
discharging passengers or freight, and then only for such length of time as is
necessary for such purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)
15.   Alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner
or under such conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet of the width
of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall
stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block
the driveway entrance to any abutting property. The provisions of this
subsection do not apply to a vehicle parked in any alley that is 18 feet wide
or less, provided that said vehicle is parked to deliver goods or services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
16.   Ramps. In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public or
private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[15])
17.   In More Than One Space. In any designated parking space so that any part
of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
markings designating such space.
18.   Parking or Terrace. No person shall drive upon or park a vehicle between
the curbing of any hard surfaced street and the sidewalk, unless said hard
surfaced with concrete, asphalt, or other hard surfacing, except during a
declared emergency snow removal.
19.   Yards. No motor vehicle shall be parked in the front, side, or rear yard
of any lot zoned residential except on paved driveways or other hard-surfaced
areas.
20.   One-Way Roads. In the event a highway or street includes two or more
separate roadways and traffic is restricted to one direction upon any such
roadway, it is unlawful for any person to stand or park a vehicle upon the
left-hand side of such one-way roadway unless signs are erected to permit such
standing or parking.
21.   Bus Stops and Taxicab Stands. A vehicle other than a bus at a bus stop or
other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or stand has been
officially designated for such purpose and is so designated by appropriate
sign, except that the driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop
therein for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading
passengers, when such stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab
waiting to enter or about to enter such designated area.
22.   Blocking Fire Apparatus. In any public or private alley in such a manner
that ingress or egress of fire apparatus to or from such alley might be
blocked.
69.07   PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
The following regulations shall apply to the establishment and use of persons
with disabilities parking spaces:
1.   Establishment. Persons with disabilities parking spaces shall be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of Iowa
and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18. No unauthorized person shall establish
any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first obtaining
Council approval.
2.   Improper Use. The following uses of a persons with disabilities parking
space, located on either public or private property, constitute improper use of
a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a violation of this Code
of Ordinances:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4[2])
   A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit.
   B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with disabilities
parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or being
transported in accordance with Section 321L.2[1b] of the Code of Iowa.
   C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under Section 321L.8
of the Code of Iowa.
3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones. No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:
   A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must comply
with the requirements of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa when utilizing
a wheelchair parking cone.
   B.   A person shall not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone that is
properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa.
69.08   NO PARKING ZONES.
No one shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any of the following specifically
designated no parking zones except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the direction of a peace officer or traffic
control signal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   Abbott Plaza, on both sides within the City limits.
2.   Any portion of the roadway and the lakefront of Carter Lake at Mabrey Park
or roadways at the ballpark or any other City park. Parking in these areas
shall be in designated parking areas only.
3.   Avenue H, on both sides within the City limits, including all of the real
property owned by the City, including rights-of-way.
4.   Avenue J, on both sides within the City limits, including all of the real
property owned by the City, including rights-of-way.
5.   Avenue K, on both sides from Lindwood Drive east to the City limits.
6.   Avenue P, on the north side from Thirteenth Street to Ninth Street.
7.   Avenue Q, on both sides from Ninth Street to Thirteenth Street.
8.   Avenue R, on both sides from Eighth Street to Ninth Street.
9.   Dorene Boulevard, on the north side from Thirteenth Street west.
10.   Eleventh Street, on the east side from Avenue K to Willow Drive.
11.   Fourteenth Street, on the west side from Avenue P to Avenue Q.
12.   Freedom Park Road, on both sides.
13.   Janbrook Boulevard, on the north side from Thirteenth Street west.
14.   Lindwood Drive, on the north side from Thirteenth Street west.
15.   Locust Street, including all of the real property owned by the City,
including rights-of-way.
16.   Mayper Drive, on the north side from Thirteenth Street west.
17.   Nakoma Lane, on both sides from the intersection with Avenue K south.
18.   Ninth Street, on both sides between Locust Street and Avenue Q.
19.   Ninth Street, on the west side from Avenue H to Locust Street.
20.   Seventeenth Street, on both sides from Avenue P to Avenue Q.
21.   Seventeenth Street, on both sides north of Avenue Q to the entrance of
Water’s Edge Court, except for City sponsored special events at the sports
complex.
22.   Shoal Drive, on the east side.
23.   Thirteenth Street, on both sides from Avenue H south except for
designated space for parking on the east side which is reserved for use by the
hotel located at 1201 Avenue H.
24.   Thirteenth Street, on both sides from Locust Street to Avenue Q.
25.   Willow Drive, on the north side from Thirteenth Street west.
69.09   TRUCK PARKING LIMITED.
No person shall park a motor vehicle with more than two axles, four tires, or
licensed for more than five tons in violation of the following regulations. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to pick-up, light delivery, or panel
delivery trucks.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   Prohibited Streets. Excepting only when such vehicles are actually engaged
in the delivery or receiving of merchandise or cargo, or during construction or
maintenance work on any abutting property, no person shall park or leave
unattended such vehicle on any street within the City except a designated truck
route. When actually receiving or delivering merchandise or cargo or during
construction or maintenance activities, such vehicle shall be stopped or parked
in a manner which will not interfere with other traffic. The provisions and
restrictions contained in this subsection do not apply to any vehicle of class
described which, due to an emergency or actual equipment failure, is unable to
be moved within a reasonable length of time or which removal would for any
reason create a traffic hazard or a hazard to the safety of persons using the
street or public way upon which the vehicle is parked; provided, however, such
vehicle so parked shall not be permitted to remain where located for a period
of time in excess of four consecutive hours, without notification being given
to the Police Chief advising as to the nature of the trouble or mechanical
failure, and of the approximate length of time necessary to be so parked.
2.   Parking Restricted. Unless otherwise posted by official signs in the City,
such vehicles may be parked on any street designated as a truck route, if so
parked in the manner prescribed by law, for a continuous period of time not to
exceed two hours.
3.   Noise. No such vehicle shall be left standing or parked upon any street,
alley, public or private parking lot, or drive of any service station between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. with the engine, auxiliary engine, air
compressor, refrigerating equipment or other device in operation giving off
audible sounds excepting only the drive of a service station when actually
being serviced, and then in no event for more than 30 minutes.
4.   Livestock. No such vehicle containing livestock shall be parked on any
street, alley, or highway for a period of time of more than 30 minutes.
69.10   SNOW ROUTES.
The Council may designate certain streets in the City as snow routes. When
conditions of snow or ice exist on the traffic surface of a designated snow
route, it is unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to impede or block traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[12])
69.11   SNOW EMERGENCY.
When it becomes necessary for the City to cause snow or ice to be plowed or
removed from its public streets, avenues, alleys, or other public places, due
to the accumulation of four inches or more of snow or ice thereon or causing a
hindrance to traffic and constituting an emergency requiring the same to be
plowed or removed, the Mayor or a designated representative shall by
appropriate public media declare the commencement of such emergency situation
and the enforcement of emergency snow parking regulations as forth in this
section, which regulation shall remain in force and effect until lifted by the
Mayor or the designated representative, except that the public street, avenue,
alley, or other public place which has become substantially cleared of snow or
ice from curb to curb for the entire length of the block shall automatically
terminate the emergency snow parking regulations. The Mayor may also cause such
a declaration to be announced in a newspaper of general circulation in the
City, when time permits. The public announcements shall also specify the time
and date the emergency situation shall be in effect.
1.   Snow Parking Regulations. Upon the accumulation of four inches or more of
snow or ice upon the declaration of such emergency situation by the Mayor,
there shall be no parking on the streets, avenues, alleys, or other public
places until cleared as described in this section.
2.   Enforcement of Regulations. The provisions of Subsection 1 shall supersede
all other parking regulations in force and effect and posted on any street
during such emergency situation.
3.   Snow Tires and Chains. It is unlawful for any person to operate any
vehicle on the streets of the City without effective anti-skid chains or
effective snow tires, when snow, sleet, or freezing rain causes slippery or
hazardous conditions, and such operation impedes or obstructs traffic.
69.12   FIRE LANES.
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a fire lane as provided
herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236)
1.   Fire Lanes Established. The Police Chief may designate fire lanes on any
private road or driveway where deemed necessary to assure access to property or
premises by authorized emergency vehicles.
2.   Signs and Markings. Wherever a fire lane has been designated, the Police
Chief shall cause appropriate signs and markings to be placed identifying such
fire lanes and the parking prohibition established by this section.
3.   Exception. The provisions of this section do not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles.
69.13   CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES.
Parking restrictions on controlled access facilities are as specified in
Chapter 140 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
 
70.01 Arrest or Citation            70.04 Parking Violations: Vehicle
                                    Unattended
70.02 Scheduled Violations          70.05 Presumption in Reference to Illegal
                                    Parking
70.03 Parking Violations: Alternate 70.06 Impounding Vehicles
 
70.01   ARREST OR CITATION.
Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:
1.   Immediate Arrest. Immediately arrest such person and take such person
before a local magistrate; or
2.   Issue Citation. Without arresting the person, prepare in quintuplicate a
combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the Iowa Commissioner of
Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint utilizing a State-
approved computerized device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 and 321.485)
3.   The owner or operator of any vehicle who receives notice, either
personally or by attaching of such notice to the vehicle, that the vehicle is
parked in such a manner or in such a place as to violate any of the provisions
of this title relating to the parking of vehicles, shall pay to the Treasurer a
penalty as set forth in the prevailing schedule of fees adopted by the Council,
and based upon the following:
   A.   If the penalty is not paid within 30 days of the date of the violation,
the Clerk may mail to the registered owner of the vehicle a reminder notice
stating the date of the violation, license number of the vehicle, fine now due,
last date to pay fine, and that failing to pay the fine will result in criminal
charges being filed.
   B.   If the penalty is not paid within 60 days of the date of the violation,
the Treasurer shall refer the notice of violation to the City Attorney for
prosecution. The City Attorney may file information in the Iowa District Court
for a violation of the provisions of this traffic code and, upon conviction,
shall be subject to the penalty provisions of Chapters 69 and 70 of this Code
of Ordinances. Each day that a violation is allowed to continue shall
constitute a separate and distinct violation.
   C.   If an arrest warrant is issued, the City Attorney shall ensure that the
provisions of Section 321.40, Code of Iowa, pursuant to County Resolution No.
55-85, are enforced, and the Treasurer, shall refuse to renew the registration
of a vehicle registered to a person with such an outstanding warrant.
70.02   SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
For violations of the Traffic Code that are designated by Section 805.8A of the
Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of those
violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 and 805.8A)
70.03   PARKING VIOLATIONS: ALTERNATE.
Uncontested violations of parking restrictions imposed by this Code of
Ordinances shall be charged upon a simple notice of a fine payable at the
office of the City Clerk. The fine for each violation charged under a simple
notice of a fine shall be in the amount of $15.00 for all violations except
snow route parking violations and improper use of a persons with disabilities
parking permit. If such fine is not paid within 30 days, it shall be increased
by $5.00. The fine for a snow route parking violation is $30.00 and the fine
for improper use of a person with disabilities parking permit is $100.00.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1b] and 321L.4[2])
70.04   PARKING VIOLATIONS: VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code, and
the driver is not present, the notice of fine or citation as herein provided
shall be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
70.05   PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred shall be raised by proof that:
1.   Described Vehicle. The particular vehicle described in the information was
parked in violation of the Traffic Code; and
2.   Registered Owner. The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.
70.06   IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
A peace officer is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, a
vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking lot, or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the City, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
1.   Disabled Vehicle. When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
2.   Illegally Parked Vehicle. When any vehicle is left unattended and is so
illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
3.   Snow Removal. When any vehicle is left parked in violation of a ban on
parking during snow removal operations.
4.   Parked Over Limited Time Period. When any vehicle is left parked for a
continuous period in violation of any limited parking time. If the owner can be
located, the owner shall be given an opportunity to remove the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
5.   Costs. In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or driver
of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and storage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
CHAPTER 75
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
 
75.01 Purpose of Chapter                 75.06 Prohibited Streets/Highways;
                                         Crossing
75.02 Definitions - All-Terrain Vehicles 75.07 Exemptions
75.03 Minimum Equipment Standards for    75.08 Leaving Motor Running or Keys in
Operatoin                                Ignition
75.04 Operating Provisions               75.09 Violation of a “Stop” Signal
75.05 Operation of Snowmobiles           75.10 Penalty for Violation
 
75.01   PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide reasonable rules and regulations for
the maintenance and operation of all-terrain vehicles and/or off-road utility
vehicles on approved roadways within the City of Carter Lake, Iowa.
75.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use within this chapter, the following words, terms and phrases are defined
as follows:
1.   All-terrain vehicle: a motorized vehicle that is not an off-road utility
vehicle or snowmobile within the definitions this Section
75.02 provides or a golf cart within the definition
Chapter 77 provides, with not less than four (4) and not more than six (6)
Department of Transportation rated tires that is limited in engine displacement
to less than one thousand cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to less
than one-thousand two-hundred pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to
be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering control.
2.   Emergency snow situation: a situation in which the streets, highways, or
other thoroughfares or roadways have not yet been plowed for snow and the snow
atop such roadways renders travel by conventional motor vehicles impractical or
overly dangerous.
3.   Off-road utility vehicle: a motorized vehicle that is not an all-terrain
vehicle or snowmobile within the definitions this Section
75.02 provides or a golf cart within the definition Chapter 77 provides with
not less than four (4) and not more than eight (8) Department of Transportation
rated tires or rubberized tracks that has a seat that is of bucket or bench
design, not intended to be straddled by the operator, and a steering wheel or
control levers for control.
“Off-road utility vehicle” includes the following vehicles:
   A.   Type 1 is defined as an off-road utility vehicle with a total dry
weight of one­thousand two-hundred and fifty (1,250) pounds or less and a width
of fifty (50) inches or less.
   B.   Type 2 is defined as an off-road utility vehicle (other than a Type 1
off-road utility vehicle), with a total dry weight of two-thousand (2,0000)
pounds or less and a width of sixty-five (65) inches or less.
   C.   Type 3 is defined as an off-road utility vehicle with a total dry
weight of more than two-thousand (2,000) pounds or a width of more than sixty-
five (65) inches, or both.
4.   Operate: to ride in or on, other than as a passenger, use, or control the
operation of an all-terrain vehicle in any manner, whether or not the all-
terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle is moving.
5.   Operator: a person who operates or is in actual physical control of an
all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle.
6.   Person: an individual, partnership, firm, corporation, association, or any
body of persons, whether incorporated or not, and the State, its agencies, and
political subdivisions.
7.   Snowmobile: a motorized vehicle that is neither an all-terrain vehicle or
an off-road utility vehicle within the definitions this Section
75.02 provides that weighs less than one-thousand pounds, that uses sled-type
runners or skis, endless belt-type tread with a width of forty-eight (48)
inches or less, or any combination of runners, skis, or tread, and is designed
for travel on snow or ice. “Snowmobile” does not include an all-terrain vehicle
that has been altered or equipped with runners, skis, belt-type tracks, or
treads.
8.   Street or highway: the entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular travel, except in
public areas in which the boundary shall be thirty-three (33) feet each side of
the center line of the roadway.
75.03   MINIMUM EQUIPMENT STANDARDS FOR OPERATION.
Each all-terrain vehicle and off-road utility vehicle shall comply with the
following standards for operation:
1.   Vehicles more than forty (40) inches wide shall be equipped with turn
signal lamps and have a manually operated switched controlled by the driver.
2.   Vehicle shall be equipped with a properly operating speedometer and
odometer calibrated in miles per hour and miles respectively and shall be fully
illuminated when the headlamp(s) are activated.
3.   Vehicles shall be equipped with an electrically actuated horn, and emit a
sound clearly audible from a distance of two-hundred (200) feet. The horn shall
be actuated with a switch easily accessible to the driver when operating the
vehicle.
4.   Vehicles shall be equipped with a headlamp that shall be in a plane that
is perpendicular to a vertical plane through the longitudinal centerline of the
vehicle. The headlamps shall be mounted not less than twenty-four (24) inches,
nor more than fifty-four (54) inches, above the road surface when measured to
the headlamp center.
5.   Vehicles shall be equipped with tail lamp or lamps mounted on the rear of
the vehicle, exhibiting a red light plainly visible from a distance of five-
hundred (500) feet to the rear. The tail lamps shall be mounted not less than
fifteen (15) inches, nor more than seventy-two (72) inches, above the roadway.
6.   Vehicles shall be equipped with a stop lamp that is actuated by the brake
switch to indicate braking of the vehicle.
7.   Vehicles shall be equipped with Department of Transportation rated tires
which shall display the proper markings on the sidewall of the tire.
8.   Vehicles shall be equipped with a rear facing mirror and shall provide the
operator with a clear view of the rear.
9.   Every all-terrain vehicle operated within City limits shall be equipped
with a muffler. The muffler shall limit engine noise to not more than eighty-
six (86) decibels, as measured on the “A” scale of the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI), incorporated, publications S1.4-1961, general
purpose sound level meters, at fifty (50) feet.
75.04   OPERATING PROVISIONS.
All operations of all-terrain vehicles and off-road utility vehicles on City
streets or highways must adhere to all City, County and State regulations
relating to the use of such vehicles. In addition to the provisions of Iowa
Code Chapter 321 the following provisions shall apply:
1.   Every all-terrain or off-road utility vehicle operated upon streets or
highways of the City of Carter Lake, Iowa, shall be registered annually with
the Pottawattamie County Recorder and shall be required to pay a registration
fee in such amount established by the Pottawattamie County Board of
Supervisors.
2.   The operator of each all-terrain or off-road utility vehicle shall
provide, upon request by any peace officer, proof of ownership including but
not limited to bill of sale or registration. This requirement shall be
satisfied if an all-terrain or off-road utility vehicle is in compliance with
the registration requirements of any state within the United States of America.
3.   A person shall not operate an all-terrain or off-road utility vehicle
within the City of Carter Lake, Iowa, unless the operator has a valid driver's
license issued by any state within the United States of America.
4.   A person shall not operate an all-terrain or off-road utility vehicle
within the City of Carter Lake, Iowa, unless the operator is at least eighteen
(18) years of age and has proof of insurance complying with that required of an
operator of a motor vehicle pursuant to applicable provisions of the Iowa Code,
rules and regulations, including but not limited to Iowa Code Sections 321.20B
and 321A.21.
5.   The operator and passengers shall wear the seatbelt or harness as so
equipped by the manufacturer.
6.   A person shall not drive or operate an all-terrain or off-road utility
vehicle:
   A.   At a rate of speed greater than the posted speed limit.
   B.   In a careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to:
      (1)   Endanger any person.
      (2)   Cause injury or damage to person or property.
      (3)   Create unnecessary skidding or sliding or cause any wheel or wheels
to unnecessarily lose contact with the ground.
   C.   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotics or habit­
forming drugs as prescribed under Iowa Code Section 321J.
   D.   In any City park, wildlife area, reserve, refuge, game management area,
or any portion of a meandered stream, which has been identified as a navigable
stream or river by rule adopted by the department and which is covered by
water, except on designated riding areas and designated trails.
   E.   Upon operating railroad right-of-way, an all-terrain or off-road
utility vehicle may be driven directly across railroad right-of-way only at an
established crossing and, notwithstanding any other provisions of law, may, if
necessary, use the improved portion of the established crossing after yielding
to all oncoming traffic. This paragraph does not apply to a law enforcement
officer or railroad employee of a utility authority to enter upon the railroad
right­of-way in the lawful performance of the employee's duty.
   F.   With more persons on the vehicle than designed to be carried or seated.
   G.   On any road, street, highway or interstate prohibited by the State of
Iowa.
75.05   OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
The operation of snowmobiles is prohibited within the City of Carter Lake,
Iowa, except in emergency snow situations and to the extent applicable Iowa law
allows.
75.06   PROHIBITED STREETS/HIGHWAYS; CROSSING.
1.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, in addition to all
roads prohibited under State law, operation of all-terrain vehicles and off-
road utility vehicles shall be prohibited on the following streets and/or
highways:
   A.   The entirety of Abbott Drive.
2.   An all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicles may make a direct
crossing of a street or highway listed in this section, but no person shall
make a direct crossing of any such street or highway with an all-terrain
vehicle or off-road utility vehicles, unless:
   A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety (90) degrees
and not less than sixty (60) degrees, to the direction of the street or
highway, and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick and safe
crossing;
   B.   The all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle is brought to a
complete stop before crossing the shoulder or main traveled way of the street
or highway;
   C.   The operator of the all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle
yields the right of way to all oncoming traffic which constitutes an immediate
hazard; and
   D.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another street or highway.
75.07   EXEMPTIONS.
The following all-terrain vehicles and off-road utility vehicles shall be
exempt from registration pursuant to Iowa Code, Section 321I.9 and the
requirements of this ordinance:
1.   All-terrain or off-road utility vehicles owned by the United States, this
State, or another state, or by a governmental subdivision thereof, and used for
enforcement, search and rescue, or official research and studies, but not for
recreational or commercial purposes.
2.   All-terrain or off-road utility vehicles used exclusively for agricultural
purposes and in accordance with Iowa Code Section 321.234A(1)(a).
75.08   LEAVING MOTOR RUNNING OR KEYS IN IGNITION.
It is unlawful for the owner or operator of an all-terrain vehicle to leave or
allow an all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle to remain unattended
on public property while the motor is running or while the keys for starting
the vehicle are left in the ignition.
75.09   VIOLATION OF A “STOP” SIGNAL.
A person, after having received a visual or audible signal from a peace officer
to come to a stop, shall not operate an all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility
vehicle in willful or wanton disregard of the signal or interfere with or
endanger the officer or any other person or vehicle, or increase speed or
attempt to flee or elude the officer.
75.10   PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
Any person found guilty of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be subject to the penalty provisions set forth in CBMC
8.02.020. Each day that a violation is allowed to continue shall constitute a
separate and distinct violation. At the discretion of the City Attorney, any
violation of the provisions of this chapter may be pursued as a municipal
infraction according to the terms of CBMC 1.95, in lieu of criminal
prosecution.
(Chapter 75 – Ord. 691 – Jul. 25 Supp.)
 
CHAPTER 76
BICYCLE REGULATIONS
 
76.01 Scope of Regulations            76.08 Riding on Sidewalks
76.02 Traffic Code Applies            76.09 Towing
76.03 Double Riding Restricted        76.10 Improper Riding
76.04 Two Abreast Limit               76.11 Parking
76.05 Speed                           76.12 Equipment Requirements
76.06 Emerging From Alley or Driveway 76.13 Special Penalty
76.07 Carrying Articles
 
76.01   SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or
upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to
those exceptions stated herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.02   TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by the laws of the State declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or
by the Traffic Code of the City applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except
as to those provisions that by their nature can have no application. Whenever
such person dismounts from a bicycle, the person shall be subject to all
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234)
76.03   DOUBLE RIDING RESTRICTED.
A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent and
regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons
at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234[3 and 4])
76.04   TWO ABREAST LIMIT.
Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles. All bicycles ridden on the roadway shall be kept to the right and
shall be operated as near as practicable to the right-hand edge of the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.05   SPEED.
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.06   EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk or
sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.07   CARRYING ARTICLES.
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article that
prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.08   RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
The following provisions apply to riding bicycles on sidewalks:
1.   Business District. No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within
the Business District, as defined in Section 60.02(2) of this Code of
Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
2.   Other Locations. When signs are erected on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, no person shall
disobey the signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
3.   Yield Right-of-Way. Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.09   TOWING.
It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to be towed or to tow any other
vehicle upon the streets of the City unless the vehicle is manufactured for
such use.
76.10   IMPROPER RIDING.
No person shall ride a bicycle in an irregular or reckless manner such as
zigzagging, stunting, speeding, or otherwise so as to disregard the safety of
the operator or others.
76.11   PARKING.
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.12   EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
Every person riding a bicycle shall be responsible for providing and using
equipment as provided herein:
1.   Lamps Required. Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped
with a lamp on the front emitting a white light visible from a distance of at
least 300 feet to the front and with a lamp on the rear exhibiting a red light
visible from a distance of 300 feet to the rear, except that a red reflector on
the rear, of a type that is visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet
to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a
motor vehicle, may be used in lieu of a rear light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.397)
2.   Brakes Required. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake that will
enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.13   SPECIAL PENALTY.
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
scheduled fine for bicyclists or standard penalty provided for violations of
this Code of Ordinances, allow the person’s bicycle to be impounded by the City
for not less than five days for the first offense, 10 days for a second
offense, and 30 days for a third offense.
 
CHAPTER 77
GOLF CARTS
 
77.01 Purpose                                     77.07 Hours of Operatoin
77.02 Definitions                                 77.08 Speed
77.03 Operation of Golf Carts Permitted           77.09 Parking Prohibited
77.04 Prohibited Streets, Sidewalks, Parking, and 77.10 Permits
Parks
77.05 Unlawful Operatoin                          77.11 Penalty
77.06 Equipment
 
77.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to permit the operation of golf carts on streets
in the City as authorized by Section 321.247 of the Code of Iowa. This chapter
applies whenever a golf cart is operated on any street or alley.
77.02   DEFINITIONS.
1.   Golf cart: a three or four wheeled recreational vehicle generally used for
transportation of person(s) in an open car type format, that is not capable of
exceeding a speed of twenty-five (25) miles per hour. Golf carts do not include
all-terrain vehicles, off-road utility vehicles, or snowmobiles within the
meaning
Chapter 75 provides.
2.   Operate: to ride in or on, other than as a passenger, use, or control the
operation of an all-terrain vehicle in any manner, whether or not the all-
terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle is moving.
3.   Operator: a person who operates or is in actual physical control of an
all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle.
4.   Person: an individual, partnership, firm, corporation, association, or any
body of persons, whether incorporated or not, and the State, its agencies, and
political subdivisions.
77.03   OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS PERMITTED.
Golf carts may be operated upon the streets of the City by persons possessing a
valid driver's license, except as prohibited in Section
77.05 of this chapter.
77.04   PROHIBITED STREETS, SIDEWALKS, PARKING, AND PARKS.
Golf carts shall not be operated off road in any playground, park, trail,
publicly owned property, or any portion of Abbot Drive. Golf carts shall
further not be operated upon the public sidewalk, trail, or that portion of the
street located between the curb line and the sidewalk or property line common
referred to as the “parking.”
77.05   UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
1.   No golf carts shall be operated or parked upon City sidewalks or trails.
2.   All State motor vehicle laws apply.
3.   No person shall operate a golf cart in a careless, reckless, or negligent
manner endangering the person or property of another or causing injury or
damage to same.
4.   No golf cart shall carry more passengers than golf cart was designed for
by manufacturer.
77.06   EQUIPMENT.
Golf carts operated upon City streets shall be equipped with a minimum of the
following safety features:
1.   A regulation (16") slow moving vehicle sign displayed on the rear of the
vehicle.
2.   A regulation visible bicycle safety flag (a flag with an area of not less
than six (6) by nine (9) inches of fluorescent orange color on a staff holder
to put such flag at least five (5) feet above the surface of the street) at all
times during operation.
3.   Shall be equipped with adequate brakes.
4.   Rear view mirror – driver’s side.
77.07   HOURS OF OPERATION.
Golf carts may be operated on City streets only between sunrise and sunset.
77.08   SPEED.
No golf cart shall be operated on any City street at a speed in excess of
fifteen (15) miles per hour. Posted speed limits must be followed in accordance
with the Code of Iowa.
77.09   PARKING PROHIBITED.
Golf carts shall not be parked on City streets or alleys at any time.
77.10   PERMITS.
No person shall operate a golf cart on any public street or alley, for any
purpose, unless the owner possesses a City of Carter Lake Permit to operate a
golf cart on City streets, issued by the Police Department.
1.   Golf cart owners must apply for a permit from the Carter Lake Police
Department on forms provided by the City.
2.   The Police Department shall not issue a permit until the owner has
provided the following:
   A.   Evidence that the owner/operator is at least 16 years of age and
possesses a valid Iowa driver's license.
   B.   Proof that owner and operator have liability insurance covering
operation of golf carts on City streets in the amount required by Iowa Code.
3.   All permits shall be issued for a specific golf cart. Permit holders will
be issued a number and sticker to affix to the left side rear fender or similar
component and said sticker must be visible at all times.
4.   The fee for such permits shall be twenty dollars ($20.00). Permits will be
granted for one (1) year valid from May 1 through April 30 each year. Permits
may be purchased at any time during the year but will be valid only through
April 30.
5.   The permit may be suspended or revoked upon finding evidence that the
permit holder has violated the conditions of the permit or has abused the
privilege of being a permit holder. There will be no refund of the permit fee.
6.   If an under-age unlicensed person is operating a golf cart, the Police
Department shall issue one warning citation to the parent or guardian of the
under-age unlicensed person. The warning shall be signed by the parent or
guardian and returned to the Police Department within seven (7) days of
issuance. Upon the second occurrence, the operator and/or parent or guardian
will be cited under Section
77.05 with penalties set forth in Section
77.11 and shall be required to appear in court. The permit for the golf cart
shall be automatically revoked.
77.11   PENALTY.
In addition to the suspension or revocation of the permit, any person who
violates this chapter shall be fined $300.00.
(Chapter 77 – Ord. 692 – Jul. 25 Supp.)
CHAPTER 80
ABANDONED VEHICLES
 
80.01 Definitions                       80.06 Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
80.02 Authority to Take Possession of   80.07 Disposal of Totally Inoperable
Abandoned Vehicles                      Vehicles
80.03 Notice by Mail                    80.08 Proceeds from Sales
80.04 Reclamation of Abandoned Vehicles 80.09 Duties of Demolisher
80.05 Fees for Impoundment
 
80.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[1] and Sec. 321.90)
1.   “Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:
   A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than 24 hours and lacks current registration plates or two or more wheels or
other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
   B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more than
24 hours.
   C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked or placed on private property
without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property for more
than 24 hours.
   D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of 10 days. However, a police
authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the 10-day period by
commencing the notification process.
   E.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police authority to
create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
   F.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Section 321J.4B of the
Code of Iowa by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the impoundment
fees after notification by the person or agency responsible for carrying out
the impoundment order.
2.   “Demolisher” means a person licensed under Chapter 321H of the Code of
Iowa whose business it is to convert a vehicle to junk, processed scrap, or
scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck, or dismantle vehicles.
3.   “Garage keeper” means any operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle storage facility, or establishment for the servicing, repair, or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
4.   “Police authority” means the Iowa State Patrol or any law enforcement
agency of a county or city.
80.02   AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
A police authority, upon the authority’s own initiative or upon the request of
any other authority having the duties of control of highways or traffic, shall
take into custody an abandoned vehicle on public property and may take into
custody any abandoned vehicle on private property. The police authority may
employ its own personnel, equipment, and facilities or hire a private entity,
equipment, and facilities for the purpose of removing, preserving, storing, or
disposing of abandoned vehicles. A property owner or other person in control of
private property may employ a private entity that is a garage keeper to dispose
of an abandoned vehicle, and the private entity may take into custody the
abandoned vehicle without a police authority’s initiative. If a police
authority employs a private entity to dispose of abandoned vehicles, the police
authority shall provide the private entity with the names and addresses of the
registered owners, all lienholders of record, and any other known claimant to
the vehicle or the personal property found in the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[2])
80.03   NOTICE BY MAIL.
1.   A police authority or private entity that takes into custody an abandoned
vehicle shall send notice by certified mail that the vehicle has been taken
into custody, no more than 20 days after taking custody of the vehicle. Notice
shall be sent to the last known address of record of the last known registered
owner of the vehicle, all lienholders of record, and any other known claimant
to the vehicle.
2.   Notice shall be deemed given when mailed. The notice shall include all of
the following:
   A.   A description of the year, make, model and vehicle identification
number of the vehicle.
   B.   The location of the facility where the vehicle is being held.
   C.   Information for the persons receiving the notice of their right to
reclaim the vehicle and personal property contained therein within 10 days
after the effective date of the notice. Persons may reclaim the vehicle or
personal property upon payment of all towing, preservation, and storage charges
resulting from placing the vehicle in custody and upon payment of the costs of
the notice required pursuant to this section.
   D.   A statement that failure of the owner, lienholders, or claimants to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
time provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner, lienholders, and claimants
of all right, title, claim, and interest in the vehicle or personal property.
   E.   A statement that failure to reclaim the vehicle or personal property is
deemed consent for the police authority or private entity to sell the vehicle
at a public auction or dispose of the vehicle to a demolisher and to dispose of
the personal property by sale or destruction.
3.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a private entity
without a police authority’s initiative, the notice shall state that the
private entity may claim a garage keeper’s lien as described in Section 321.90,
Subsection 1, of the Code of Iowa, and may proceed to sell or dispose of the
vehicle.
4.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a police authority or
by a private entity hired by a police authority, the notice shall state that
any person claiming rightful possession of the vehicle or personal property who
disputes the planned disposition of the vehicle or property by the police
authority or private entity, or of the assessment of fees and charges provided
by this section, may ask for an evidentiary hearing before the police authority
to contest those matters.
5.   If the persons receiving notice do not ask for a hearing or exercise their
right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the 10-day reclaiming
period, the owner, lienholders, or claimants shall no longer have any right,
title, claim, or interest in or to the vehicle or the personal property.
6.   A court in any case in law or equity shall not recognize any right, title,
claim, or interest of the owner, lienholders, or claimants after the expiration
of the 10-day reclaiming period.
7.   If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identities
and addresses of the last registered owner and all lienholders, notice by one
publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of notice
under Subsection 2 of this section. The published notice may contain multiple
listings of abandoned vehicles, but shall be published within the same time
requirements and contain the same information as prescribed for mailed notice
in Subsection 2 of this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3])
80.04   RECLAMATION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
Prior to driving an abandoned vehicle away from the premises, a person who
received (or who is reclaiming the vehicle on behalf of a person who received)
notice under Section 80.03 shall present to the police authority or private
entity, as applicable, the person’s valid driver’s license and proof of
financial liability coverage as provided in Section 321.20B of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.05   FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
The owner, lienholder, or claimant shall pay $5.00 for each day with the
reclaiming periods plus towing charges if stored by the City, or towing and
storage fees if stored in a public garage.
80.06   DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided herein, the police
authority or private entity shall make a determination as to whether or not the
motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways, and shall dispose of
the motor vehicle in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.07   DISPOSAL OF TOTALLY INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
The City or any person upon whose property or in whose possession is found any
abandoned motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle whose
title certificate is faulty, lost, or destroyed, may dispose of such motor
vehicle to a demolisher for junk, without a title and without notification
procedures, if such motor vehicle lacks an engine or two or more wheels or
other structural part which renders the vehicle totally inoperable. The police
authority shall give the applicant a certificate of authority. The applicant
shall then apply to the County Treasurer for a junking certificate and shall
surrender the certificate of authority in lieu of the certificate of title.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[2e])
80.08   PROCEEDS FROM SALES.
Proceeds from the sale of any abandoned vehicle shall be applied to the expense
of auction, cost of towing, preserving, storing, and notification required, in
accordance with State law. Any balance shall be held for the owner of the motor
vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days, and then shall be deposited in the
State Road Use Tax Fund. Where the sale of any vehicle fails to realize the
amount necessary to meet costs the police authority shall apply for
reimbursement from the Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.09   DUTIES OF DEMOLISHER.
Any demolisher who purchases or otherwise acquires an abandoned motor vehicle
for junk shall junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or otherwise demolish such motor
vehicle. A demolisher shall not junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or demolish a
vehicle until the demolisher has obtained the junking certificate issued for
the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[3a])
CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
90.01 Definitions                     90.11 Installation of Water Service Pipe
90.02 Maintenance Supervisor’s Dutie90.12 Responsibility for Water Service
                                      Pipe
90.03 Mandatory Connections           90.13 Failure to Maintain
90.04 Abandoned Connections           90.14 Curb Valve
90.05 Permit                          90.15 Interior Valve
90.06 Connection Charge               90.16 Inspection and Approval
90.07 Compliance with Plumbing Code   90.17 Completion by the City
90.08 Plumber Required                90.18 Shutting Off Water Supply
90.09 Excavations                     90.19 Operation of Curb Valve and
                                      Hydrants
90.10 Tapping Mains                   90.20 Water Services Only for Sprinkler
                                      Systems
 
90.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in the chapters in this Code of
Ordinances pertaining to the Water Service System:
1.   “Combined service account” means a customer service account for the
provision of two or more utility services.
2.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person receiving water service from
the City, the owner of the property served, and as between such parties the
duties, responsibilities, liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed
shall be joint and several.
3.   “Maintenance Supervisor” means the primary supervisor of the maintenance
department or any duly authorized assistant, agent, or representative.
4.   “Water main” means a water supply pipe provided for public or community
use.
5.   “Water service pipe” means the pipe from the water main to the building
served.
6.   “Water system” or “water works” means all public facilities for securing,
collecting, storing, pumping, treating, and distributing water.
90.02   MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR’S DUTIES. 
The Maintenance Supervisor shall supervise the installation of water service
pipes and their connection to the water main and enforce all regulations
pertaining to water services in the City in accordance with this chapter. This
chapter shall apply to all replacements of existing water service pipes as well
as to new ones. The Maintenance Supervisor shall make such rules, not in
conflict with the provisions of this chapter, as may be needed for the detailed
operation of the water system, subject to the approval of the Council. In the
event of an emergency the Maintenance Supervisor may make temporary rules for
the protection of the system until due consideration by the Council may be had.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
90.03   MANDATORY CONNECTIONS.
All residences and business establishments within the City limits intended or
used for human habitation, occupancy or use shall be connected to the public
water system, if it is reasonably available and if the building is not
furnished with pure and wholesome water from some other source.
90.04   ABANDONED CONNECTIONS.
When an existing water service is abandoned or a service is renewed with a new
tap in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains shall be turned off
at the corporation stop and made absolutely watertight. Reconnection to the
abandoned tap shall not be allowed once a water service has been abandoned.
90.05   PERMIT.
Before any person makes a connection with the public water system, a written
permit must be obtained from the City. The application for the permit shall
include a legal description of the property, the name of the property owner,
the name and address of the person who will do the work, and the general uses
of the water. No different or additional uses will be allowed except by written
permission of the Maintenance Supervisor. The Maintenance Supervisor shall sign
and issue the permit and state at the time of issuance if the work meets all
the requirements of this chapter and if all fees required under this chapter
have been paid. Work under any permit must be completed within 60 days after
the permit is issued, except that when such time period is inequitable or
unfair due to conditions beyond the control of the person making the
application, an extension of time within which to complete the work may be
granted. The permit may be revoked at any time for any violation of these
chapters and require that the work be stopped.
90.06   CONNECTION CHARGE.
Before any permit is issued the person who makes application shall pay to the
City a connection charge as may be established by the Metropolitan Utilities
District, plus a $250.00 connection fee and the cost of the water meter.
90.07   COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
The installation of any water service pipe and any connection with the water
system shall comply with all pertinent and applicable provisions, whether
regulatory, procedural, or enforcement provisions, of the State Plumbing Code.
90.08   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of water service pipes and connections to the water system
shall be made by a State-licensed plumber.
90.09   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required in making a connection
shall be performed in accordance with the State Plumbing Code and the
provisions of Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
90.10   TAPPING MAINS.
All taps into water mains shall be made by or under the direct supervision of
the Maintenance Supervisor and in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Independent Services. No more than one house, building, or premises shall
be supplied from one tap unless special written permission is obtained from the
Maintenance Supervisor and unless provision is made so that each house,
building, or premises may be shut off independently of the other.
2.   Sizes and Location of Taps. All mains six inches or less in diameter shall
receive no larger than a three-fourths inch tap. All mains of over six inches
in diameter shall receive no larger than a one-inch tap. Where a larger
connection than a one-inch tap is desired, two or more small taps or saddles
shall be used, as the Maintenance Supervisor shall order. All taps in the mains
shall be made in the top half of the pipe, at least 18 inches apart. No main
shall be tapped nearer than two feet of the joint in the main.
3.   Corporation Stop. A brass corporation stop, of the pattern and weight
approved by the Maintenance Supervisor, shall be inserted in every tap in the
main. The corporation stop in the main shall be of the same size as the service
pipe.
4.   Location Record. An accurate and dimensional sketch showing the exact
location of the tap shall be filed with the Maintenance Supervisor in such form
as the Maintenance Supervisor shall require.
90.11   INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE PIPE.
Water service pipes from the main to the meter setting shall be Type K copper.
The use of any other pipe material for the service line shall first be approved
by the Maintenance Supervisor. Pipe must be laid sufficiently waving, and to
such depth, as to prevent rupture from settlement or freezing.
90.12   RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER SERVICE PIPE.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the water service pipe from the main to the building served
shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss
or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation or
maintenance of said water service pipe.
90.13   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
When any portion of the water service pipe which is the responsibility of the
property owner becomes defective or creates a nuisance and the owner fails to
correct such nuisance, the City may do so and assess the costs thereof to the
property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a and h])
90.14   CURB VALVE.
There shall be installed within the public right-of-way a main shut-off valve
on the water service pipe of a pattern approved by the Maintenance Supervisor.
The shut-off valve shall be constructed to be visible and even with the
pavement or ground. Shut-off valves that extend more than one-half inch above
the pavement or ground shall be determined to be a tripping hazard and will be
repaired by the City, and the City shall assess the cost of the repair, plus an
administrative fee, to the property.
90.15   INTERIOR VALVE.
There shall be installed a shut-off valve on every service pipe inside the
building as close to the entrance of the pipe within the building as possible
and so located that the water can be shut off conveniently. Where one service
pipe supplies more than one customer within the building, there shall be
separate valves for each such customer so that service may be shut off for one
without interfering with service to the others.
90.16   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
All water service pipes and their connections to the water system must be
inspected and approved in writing by the Maintenance Supervisor before they are
covered, and the Maintenance Supervisor shall keep a record of such approvals.
If the Maintenance Supervisor refuses to approve the work, the plumber or
property owner must proceed immediately to correct the work. Every person who
uses or intends to use the municipal water system shall permit the Maintenance
Supervisor to enter the premises to inspect or make necessary alterations or
repairs at all reasonable hours and on proof of authority. The City may assess
the cost thereof, plus an administrative fee, to the property.
90.17   COMPLETION BY THE CITY.
Should any excavation be left open or only partly refilled for 24 hours after
the water service pipe is installed and connected with the water system, or
should the work be improperly done, the City shall have the right to finish or
correct the work, and the Council shall assess the costs to the property owner
or the plumber. If the plumber is assessed, the plumber must pay the costs
before receiving another permit. If the property owner is assessed, such
assessment may be collected with and in the same manner as general property
taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a and h])
90.18   SHUTTING OFF WATER SUPPLY.
The Maintenance Supervisor may shut off the supply of water to any customer
because of any violation of the regulations contained in these Water Service
System chapters that is not being contested in good faith. The supply shall not
be turned on again until all violations have been corrected and the Maintenance
Supervisor has ordered the water to be turned on.
90.19   OPERATION OF CURB VALVE AND HYDRANTS.
It is unlawful for any person except the City officials and their designated
representative to turn water on at the curb valve, and no person, unless
specifically authorized by the City, shall open or attempt to draw water from
any fire hydrant for any purpose whatsoever.
90.20   WATER SERVICES ONLY FOR SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
A property owner that has a water service for a sprinkler system only, and
which is separately metered, is required to temporarily discontinue and shut
off at the curb valve, on or before November 1 of each year, and have the meter
read at that time. There shall be a $20.00 fee charged for restoring service.
During the period when service is temporarily discontinued as provided herein,
there shall be no minimum service charge. However, if a customer fails to have
the service temporarily disconnected, it will not relieve the customer from the
minimum service charge.
CHAPTER 91
WATER METERS
 
91.01 Purpose                           91.06 Meter Costs
91.02 Water Use Metered                 91.07 Meter Repairs
91.03 Fire Sprinkler Systems; Exception 91.08 Right of Entry
91.04 Location of Meters                91.09 Remote Readers
91.05 Meter Setting
 
91.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the conservation of water and
facilitate the equitable distribution of charges for water service among
customers.
91.02   WATER USE METERED.
All water furnished customers shall be measured through meters furnished by the
City and installed by the City or its agent.
91.03   FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS; EXCEPTION.
Fire sprinkler systems may be connected to water mains by direct connection
without meters under the direct supervision of the Maintenance Supervisor. No
other open, unmetered connection shall be incorporated in the system, and there
shall be no valves except a main control valve at the entrance to the building
which must be sealed open.
91.04   LOCATION OF METERS.
All meters shall be so located that they are easily accessible to meter readers
and repairmen and protected from freezing.
91.05   METER SETTING.
The property owner shall provide all necessary piping and fittings for proper
setting of the meter including a valve on the discharge side of the meter.
Meter pits may be used only upon approval of the Maintenance Supervisor and
shall be of a design and construction approved by the Maintenance Supervisor.
91.06   METER COSTS.
The full cost of any meter larger than that required for a single-family
residence shall be paid to the City by the property owner or customer prior to
the installation of any such meter by the City, or, at the sole option of the
City, the property owner or customer may be required to purchase and install
such meter in accordance with requirements established by the City.
91.07   METER REPAIRS.
Whenever a water meter owned by the City is found to be out of order the
Maintenance Supervisor shall have it repaired. If it is found that damage to
the meter has occurred due to the carelessness or negligence of the customer or
property owner, or the meter is not owned by the City, then the property owner
shall be liable for the cost of repairs.
91.08   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Maintenance Supervisor shall be permitted to enter the premises of any
customer at any reasonable time to read, remove, or change a meter.
91.09   REMOTE READERS.
Each location, building, premises, or connection made hereunder, or in
continuation thereof, shall necessitate each customer to install a special
meter to allow for remote reading of usage. The cost of the initial meter and
any installation thereof for new construction shall be borne by the customer.
The City shall designate the appropriate equipment to be used and shall
designate the appropriate contractor for installation. Any other equipment used
by a customer or installed by an organization or person other than that
designated by the City shall be considered a violation of this section.
CHAPTER 92
WATER RATES
 
92.01 Service Charges           92.06 Lien Exemption
92.02 Rates For Service         92.07 Lien Notice
92.03 Billing for Water Service 92.08 Customer Deposits
92.04 Service Discontinued      92.09 Temporary Vacancy
92.05 Lien for Nonpayment
 
92.01   SERVICE CHARGES.
Each customer shall pay for water service provided by the City based upon use
of water as determined by meters provided for in Chapter 91. Each location,
building, premises, or connection shall be considered a separate and distinct
customer whether owned or controlled by the same person or not.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.02   RATES FOR SERVICE.
Water service shall be furnished at the following monthly rates within the
City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Monthly Rates.
   A.   First 200 Cubic Feet   $20.67 (Minimum Bill)
   B.   201 to 5,000 Cubic Feet   $2.36 per 100 Cubic Feet
   C.   5,001 to 50,000 Cubic Feet   $2.23 per 100 Cubic Feet
   D.   50,001 to 150,000 Cubic Feet   $1.60 per 100 Cubic Feet
   E.   All In Excess of 150,000 Cubic Feet   $1.70 per 100 Cubic Feet
2.   Large Water Users. Large water users are defined as users consuming
250,000 cubic feet of water or more per month. The special rate for large water
users includes a minimum bill and a per cubic foot cost thereafter.
   A.   First 250,000 Cubic Feet   $887.62 (Minimum Bill)
   B.   All In Excess of 250,000 Cubic Feet   $1.45 per 100 Cubic Feet
3.   Administrative Fee. The City contracts for the reading of the utilities
and other necessary related billing and collection services. Pursuant to a
written public contract entered into between the City and the contractor, the
cost of this administrative service is passed along to each customer. Each
charge for service rendered shall be clearly listed and disclosed to each
utility customer. The payment of these fees is an integral part of the water
service provided by the City to its residents. Customers shall receive at least
30 days’ notice of any increase in administrative charges necessitated by
contracts entered into by the City. The amount of the administrative fee
charged to each customer is $4.00 per month on November 1, 2012.
92.03   BILLING FOR WATER SERVICE.
Water service shall be billed as part of a combined service account, payable in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Bills Issued. The City shall designate an agent to prepare, date, and
issue bills for combined service accounts. Bills shall be deemed issued as of
the date indicated on the bills.
2.   Bills Payable. Bills for combined service accounts shall be due and
payable within 20 days of the date of issuance.
3.   Late Payment Penalty. Bills not paid when due shall be considered
delinquent. A one-time late payment penalty of nine percent of the amount due
shall be added to each delinquent bill.
4.   Delinquent Fee. A delinquent fee of $3.00 will be assessed to any bill not
paid by the tenth of the month. The fee will be assessed to cover the cost of
preparing and mailing the delinquent notice post cards.
5.   Shut-Off Notice Fee. A $7.00 fee will be assessed to any account where
payment is not made in a timely manner and the billing agent must deliver a
shut-off notice to the property. This fee will be assessed to cover the cost of
preparing, delivering, and posting the shut-off fees.
6.   Service Termination; Restoration Fee. A $30.00 fee will be assessed to any
account where service is shut-off for lack of payment. This fee will be
assessed to compensate for the cost of discontinued or disconnected water
service and for restoring such service.
92.04   SERVICE DISCONTINUED.
Water service to delinquent customers shall be discontinued or disconnected in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Notice. The Clerk shall notify each delinquent customer that service will
be discontinued or disconnected if payment of the combined service account,
including late payment charges, is not received by the date specified in the
notice of delinquency. Such notice shall be sent by ordinary mail to the
customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred and shall inform
the customer of the nature of the delinquency and afford the customer the
opportunity for a hearing prior to the discontinuance or disconnection.
2.   Notice to Landlords. If the customer is a tenant, and if the owner or
landlord of the property or premises has made a written request for notice, the
notice of delinquency shall also be given to the owner or landlord. If the
customer is a tenant and requests a change of name for service under the
account, such request shall be sent to the owner or landlord of the property if
the owner or landlord has made a written request for notice of any change of
name for service under the account to the rental property.
3.   Hearing. If a hearing is requested by noon of the day preceding the shut
off, the Clerk shall conduct an informal hearing and shall make a determination
as to whether the discontinuance or disconnection is justified.
4.   Fees. A fee of $30.00 shall be charged before service is restored to a
delinquent customer. No fee shall be charged for the usual or customary trips
in the regular changes in occupancies of property.
92.05   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
The owner of the premises served, and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for water service charges to the premises. Water
service charges remaining unpaid, and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon
the property or premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the
County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.06   LIEN EXEMPTION.  
1.   Water Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall not apply to
charges for water service to a residential or commercial rental property where
water service is separately metered and the rates or charges for the water
service are paid directly to the City by the tenant, if the landlord gives
written notice to the City that the property is residential or commercial
rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or charges. The
City may require a deposit not exceeding the usual cost of 90 days of such
services to be paid to the City. When the tenant moves from the rental
property, the City shall refund the deposit if all service charges are paid in
full. The lien exemption does not apply to delinquent charges for repairs
related to any of the services.
2.   Other Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall also not apply to
the charges for any of the services of sewer systems, stormwater drainage
systems, sewage treatment, solid waste collection, and solid waste disposal for
a residential rental property where the charge is paid directly to the City by
the tenant, if the landlord gives written notice to the City that the property
is residential rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or
charges for such service. The City may require a deposit not exceeding the
usual cost of 90 days of such services to be paid to the City. When the tenant
moves from the rental property, the City shall refund the deposit if all
service charges are paid in full. The lien exemption does not apply to
delinquent charges for repairs related to any of the services.
3.   Written Notice. The landlord’s written notice shall contain the name of
the tenant responsible for charges, the address of the residential or
commercial rental property that the tenant is to occupy, and the date that the
occupancy begins. Upon receipt, the City shall acknowledge the notice and
deposit. A change in tenant for a residential rental property shall require a
new written notice to be given to the City within 30 business days of the
change in tenant. A change in tenant for a commercial rental property shall
require a new written notice to be given to the City within 10 business days of
the change in tenant. A change in the ownership of the residential rental
property shall require written notice of such change to be given to the City
within 30 business days of the completion of the change of ownership. A change
in the ownership of the commercial rental property shall require written notice
of such change to be given to the City within 10 business days of the
completion of the change of ownership.
4.   Mobile Homes, Modular Homes, and Manufactured Homes. A lien for nonpayment
of utility services described in Subsections 1 and 2 of this section shall not
be placed upon a premises that is a mobile home, modular home, or manufactured
home if the mobile home, modular home, or manufactured home is owned by a
tenant of and located in a mobile home park or manufactured home community and
the mobile home park or manufactured home community owner or manager is the
account holder, unless the lease agreement specifies that the tenant is
responsible for payment of a portion of the rates or charges billed to the
account holder.
92.07   LIEN NOTICE.
A lien for delinquent water service charges shall not be certified to the
County Treasurer unless prior written notice of intent to certify a lien is
given to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred. If
the customer is a tenant and if the owner or landlord of the property or
premises has made a written request for notice, the notice shall also be given
to the owner or landlord. The notice shall be sent to the appropriate persons
by ordinary mail not less than 30 days prior to certification of the lien to
the County Treasurer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.08   CUSTOMER DEPOSITS.
There shall be required from every customer or prospective customer a $150.00
deposit intended to guarantee the payment of bills for service. After a period
of two years from the initial deposit, if the payments are current and timely,
the deposit shall be refunded. If water service has been discontinued for any
customer by reason of failure to pay a bill, there shall be required a deposit
of $150.00 plus the charge to reconnect the water before the water service is
restored.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.09   TEMPORARY VACANCY.
A property owner may request water service be temporarily discontinued and shut
off at the curb valve when the property is expected to be vacant for an
extended period of time. There shall be a $30.00 fee for restoring service.
During a period when service is temporarily discontinued as provided herein
there shall be no minimum service charge. The City will not drain pipes or pull
meters for temporary vacancies.
CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
 
95.01 Purpose                   95.06 Service Outside the City
95.02 Definitions               95.07 Right of Entry
95.03 Maintenance Supervisor    95.08 Use of Easements
95.04 Prohibited Acts           95.09 Special Penalties
95.05 Sewer Connection Required 95.10 Abandoned Sewer Lines
 
95.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Sanitary
Sewers is to establish rules and regulations governing the treatment and
disposal of sanitary sewage within the City in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
95.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise,
the following terms are defined:
1.   “B.O.D.” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20?, expressed in milligrams per liter or
parts per million.
2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
3.   “Building sewer” means that part of the horizontal piping from the
building wall to its connection with the main sewer or the primary treatment
portion of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system conveying the
drainage of one building site.
4.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface run-off and sewage.
5.   “Customer” means any person responsible for the production of domestic,
commercial, or industrial waste that is directly or indirectly discharged into
the public sewer system.
6.   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of
produce.
7.   “Industrial wastes” means the liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
8.   “Inspector” means the person duly authorized by the Council to inspect and
approve the installation of building sewers and their connections to the public
sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged therefrom.
9.   “Maintenance Supervisor” means the primary supervisor of the Maintenance
Department or any duly authorized assistant, agent, or representative.
10.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake,
or other body of surface or groundwater.
11.   “On-site wastewater treatment and disposal system” means all equipment
and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment,
and disposal of wastewater from four or fewer dwelling units or other
facilities serving the equivalent of 15 persons (1,500 gpd) or less.
12.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions
in grams per liter of solution.
13.   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties
have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
14.   “Sanitary sewage” means sewage discharging from the sanitary conveniences
of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office buildings,
factories, or institutions, and free from storm, surface water, and industrial
waste.
15.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer that carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
16.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with
such ground, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
17.   “Sewage treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and structures
used for treating sewage.
18.   “Sewage works” or “sewage system” means all facilities for collecting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
19.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
20.   “Sewer service charges” means any and all charges, rates or fees levied
against and payable by customers, as consideration for the servicing of said
customers by said sewer system.
21.   “Slug” means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste that in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
22.   “Storm drain” or “storm sewer” means a sewer that carries storm and
surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
23.   “Suspended solids” means solids that either float on the surface of, or
are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and that are removable by
laboratory filtering.
24.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
95.03   MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR.
The Maintenance Supervisor shall exercise the following powers and duties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Operation and Maintenance. Operate and maintain the City sewage system.
2.   Inspection and Tests. Conduct necessary inspections and tests to assure
compliance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
3.   Records. Maintain a complete and accurate record of all sewers, sewage
connections, and manholes constructed showing the location and grades thereof.
95.04   PROHIBITED ACTS.
No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:
1.   Damage Sewer System. Maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment that is a part of the sewer system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
2.   Surface Run-Off or Groundwater. Connect a roof downspout, sump pump,
exterior foundation drain, areaway drain, or other source of surface run-off or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
3.   Manholes. Open or enter any manhole of the sewer system, except by
authority of the Maintenance Supervisor.
4.   Objectionable Wastes. Place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on public
or private property within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
5.   Septic Tanks. Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage except
as provided in these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
6.   Untreated Discharge. Discharge to any natural outlet within the City, or
in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
95.05   SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
The owners of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in
the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer, are hereby required
to install, at such owner’s expense, suitable toilet facilities therein and a
building sewer connecting such facilities directly with the proper public
sewer, and to maintain the same all in accordance with the provisions of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters, such compliance to be completed within 60 days after
date of official notice from the City to do so provided that said public sewer
is located within 100 feet of the property line of such owner and is of such
design as to receive and convey by gravity such sewage as may be conveyed to
it. Billing for sanitary sewer service will begin the date of official notice
to connect to the public sewer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
95.06   SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
The owners of property outside the corporate limits of the City so situated
that it may be served by the City sewer system may apply to the Council for
permission to connect to the public sewer upon the terms and conditions
stipulated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
95.07   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Maintenance Supervisor and other duly authorized employees of the City
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
The Maintenance Supervisor or representatives shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining,
ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities
for waste treatment.
95.08   USE OF EASEMENTS.
The Maintenance Supervisor and other duly authorized employees of the City
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
95.09   SPECIAL PENALTIES.
The following special penalty provisions shall apply to violations of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters:
1.   Notice of Violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
these chapters except Subsections 1, 3, and 4 of Section 95.04, shall be served
by the City with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations.
2.   Continuing Violations. Any person who shall continue any violation beyond
the time limit provided for in Subsection 1 hereof shall be in violation of
this Code of Ordinances. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
3.   Liability Imposed. Any person violating any of the provisions of these
chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the City by reason of such violation.
4.   Municipal Infraction. Any person violating Subsections 1, 3, or 4 of
Section 95.04 shall be guilty of a civil municipal infraction in Chapter 3.
95.10   ABANDONED SEWER LINES.  
When an existing sanitary sewer service is abandoned or a service is renewed
with a new connection in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains
shall be capped off and made absolutely watertight.
CHAPTER 96
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
 
96.01 Permit                  96.07 Sewer Tap
96.02 Connection Charge       96.08 Inspection Required
96.03 Plumber Required        96.09 Property Owner’s Responsibility
96.04 Excavations             96.10 Abatement of Violations
96.05 Connection Requirements 96.11 Backwater Valves Required
96.06 Interceptors Required
 
96.01   PERMIT.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into,
use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the City. The application for the permit shall
set forth the location and description of the property to be connected with the
sewer system and the purpose for which the sewer is to be used, and shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent. The permit shall require the owner to complete construction and
connection of the building sewer to the public sewer within 30 days after the
issuance of the permit, except that when a property owner makes sufficient
showing that due to conditions beyond the owner’s control or peculiar hardship,
such time period is inequitable or unfair, an extension of time within which to
comply with the provisions herein may be granted. Any sewer connection permit
may be revoked at any time for a violation of these chapters.
96.02   CONNECTION CHARGE.
All applications for connection to the public sewer system shall be accompanied
by a connection charge in accordance with the following:
1.   Residential Premises - $600.00.
2.   Commercial and Industrial Premises - $1,750.00, with consideration given
to additional fees charged per acre if the development is anticipated to have
higher than average sewer usage. Additional fees will be determined by the
Planning and Zoning Commission and approved by the Council.
96.03   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of building sewers and connections to the public sewer shall
be made by a State-licensed plumber.
96.04   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required for the installation of a
building sewer shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the
State Plumbing Code and the provisions of Chapter 135.
96.05   CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
Any connection with a public sanitary sewer must be made under the direct
supervision of the Maintenance Supervisor and in accordance with the following:
1.   Old Building Sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test conducted by
the owner and observed by the Maintenance Supervisor, to meet all requirements
of this chapter.
2.   Separate Building Sewers. A separate and independent building sewer shall
be provided for every occupied building; except where one building stands at
the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can
be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or
driveway. In such cases the building sewer from the front building may be
extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
3.   Installation. The installation and connection of the building sewer to the
public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the State Plumbing Code and
applicable rules and regulations of the City. All such connections shall be
made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Maintenance Supervisor before installation.
4.   Water Lines. When possible, building sewers should be laid at least 10
feet horizontally from a water service. The horizontal separation may be less,
provided the water service line is located at one side and at least 12 inches
above the top of the building sewer.
5.   Size. Building sewers shall be sized for the peak expected sewage flow
from the building with a minimum building sewer size of four inches.
6.   Alignment and Grade. All building sewers shall be laid to a straight line
to meet the following:
   A.   Recommended grade at one-fourth inch per foot.
   B.   Minimum grade of one-eighth inch per foot.
   C.   Minimum velocity of two and a half feet per second with the sewer half
full.
   D.   Any deviation in alignment or grade shall be made only with the written
approval of the Maintenance Supervisor and shall be made only with approved
fittings.
7.   Depth. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. The depth of cover above the
sewer shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
8.   Sewage Lifts. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building
sewer.
9.   Pipe Specifications. Building sewer pipe shall be free from flaws, splits,
or breaks. Materials shall be as specified in the State Plumbing Code except
that the building sewer pipe, from the property line to the public sewer, shall
comply with the current edition of one of the following:
   A.   Clay sewer pipe – A.S.T.M. C-700 (extra strength).
   B.   Extra heavy cast iron soil pipe – A.S.T.M. A-74.
   C.   Ductile iron water pipe – A.W.W.A. C-151.
   D.   P.V.C. – SDR26 – A.S.T.M. D-3034.
10.   Bearing Walls. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within
three feet of any bearing wall that might thereby be weakened.
11.   Jointing. Fittings, type of joint and jointing material shall be
compatible with the type of pipe used, subject to the approval of the
Maintenance Supervisor. Solvent-welded joints are not permitted.
12.   Unstable Soil. No sewer connection shall be laid so that it is exposed
when crossing any watercourse. Where an old watercourse must of necessity be
crossed or where there is any danger of undermining or settlement, cast iron
soil pipe or vitrified clay sewer pipe thoroughly encased in concrete shall be
required for such crossings. Such encasement shall extend at least six inches
on all sides of the pipe. The cast iron pipe or encased clay pipe shall rest on
firm, solid material at either end.
13.   Preparation of Basement or Crawl Space. No connection for any residence,
business or other structure with any sanitary sewer shall be made unless the
basement floor is poured, or in the case of a building with a slab or crawl
space, unless the ground floor is installed with the area adjacent to the
foundation of such building cleared of debris and backfilled. The backfill
shall be well compacted and graded so that the drainage is away from the
foundation. Prior to the time the basement floor is poured, or the first floor
is installed in buildings without basements, the sewer shall be plugged and the
plug shall be sealed by the Maintenance Supervisor. Any accumulation of water
in any excavation or basement during construction and prior to connection to
the sanitary sewer shall be removed by means other than draining into the
sanitary sewer.
96.06   INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
Grease, oil, sludge, and sand interceptors shall be provided by gas and service
stations, convenience stores, car washes, garages, and other facilities when,
in the opinion of the Maintenance Supervisor, they are necessary for the proper
handling of such wastes that contain grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable waste, sand, or other harmful ingredients. Such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. When required,
such interceptors shall be installed in accordance with the following:
1.   Design and Location. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity as
specified in the State Plumbing Code, to be approved by the Maintenance
Supervisor, and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
2.   Construction Standards. The interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers that shall be gastight and watertight.
3.   Maintenance. All such interceptors shall be maintained by the owner at the
owner’s expense and shall be kept in continuously efficient operations at all
times.
96.07   SEWER TAP.
Connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the “Y”
branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If no properly
located “Y” branch is available, a saddle “Y” shall be installed at the
location specified by the Maintenance Supervisor. The public sewer shall be
tapped with a tapping machine and a saddle appropriate to the type of public
sewer shall be glued or attached with a gasket and stainless-steel clamps to
the sewer. At no time shall a building sewer be constructed so as to enter a
manhole unless special written permission is received from the Maintenance
Supervisor and in accordance with the Maintenance Supervisor’s direction if
such connection is approved.
96.08   INSPECTION REQUIRED.
All connections with the sanitary sewer system before being covered shall be
inspected and approved, in writing, by the Maintenance Supervisor. As soon as
all pipe work from the public sewer to inside the building has been completed,
and before any backfilling is done, the Maintenance Supervisor shall be
notified and the Maintenance Supervisor shall inspect and test the work as to
workmanship and material; no sewer pipe laid underground shall be covered or
trenches filled until after the sewer has been so inspected and approved. If
the Maintenance Supervisor refuses to approve the work, the plumber or owner
must proceed immediately to correct the work.
96.09   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the building sewer, from the main to the building served, shall
be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer.
96.10   ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
Construction or maintenance of building sewer lines, whether located upon the
private property of any owner or in the public right-of-way, which construction
or maintenance is in violation of any of the requirements of this chapter,
shall be corrected, at the owner’s expense, within 30 days after date of
official notice from the Council of such violation. If not made within such
time, the Council shall, in addition to the other penalties herein provided,
have the right to finish and correct the work and assess the cost thereof to
the property owner. Such assessment shall be collected with and in the same
manner as general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3])
96.11   BACKWATER VALVES REQUIRED.
Any repairs on any drainage piping as described in this section or any new
construction of drainage piping as described in this section or any property
which has had any prior backup or flooding in the sewer system, and all
dwellings which are remodeled, and all new dwellings shall comply with the
provisions of this section.
1.   Drainage Below Curb and Main Sewer Level. Drainage piping serving
fixtures, the flood level rims of which are located below the elevation of the
curb or property line, at the point where the building sewer crosses under the
curb or property line, and above the crown level of the main sewer, shall drain
by gravity into the main sewer and shall be protected from back flow of sewage
by installing an approved type of backwater valve, and each such backwater
valve shall be installed only in that branch or section of the drainage system
which receives the discharge from fixtures located below the elevation of the
curb or property line.
   A.   Drainage piping serving fixtures that are located below the crown level
of the main sewer shall discharge into an approved watertight sump or receiving
tank, so located as to receive the sewage or waste by gravity. From such sump
or receiving tank, the sewage or other liquid wastes shall be lifted and
discharged into the building drain or building sewer by approved ejectors,
pumps, or other equally efficient approved mechanical devices.
   B.   The minimum size of any pump or any discharge pipe from a sump having a
water closet connected thereto shall be not less than two inches.
   C.   The discharge line from such ejector, pump, or other mechanical device
shall be provided with an accessible backwater or swing check valve and gate
valve and if the gravity drainage line to which such discharge line connects is
horizontal, the method of connection shall be from the top through a lateral
wye branch fitting.
   D.   Building drains or building sewers receiving discharge from any pump or
ejector shall be adequately sized to prevent overloading. Two fixture units
shall be allowed for each gallon per minute of continuous flow.
   E.   Gate valves, motors, compressors, air tanks, or other mechanical
devices required by this section shall be located where they will be readily
and easily accessible for inspection and repair at all times, and unless
continuously exposed, shall be enclosed in a watertight masonry pit fitted with
an adequately sized removable cover.
2.   Construction Standards. Back flow valves shall have cast iron or brass
bodies, non-corrosive bearings, seats and self-aligning discs, and shall be so
constructed as to insure a positive mechanical seal and to remain closed,
except when discharging wastes. Such valves shall remain sufficiently open
during periods of low flows to avoid screening of solids and shall not restrict
capacities or cause excessive turbulence during peak loads. Valve access covers
shall be bolted type with gasket and each valve shall bear the manufacturer’s
name case into body and cover.
CHAPTER 97
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
 
97.01 Stormwater               97.05 Restricted Discharges; Powers of
                               Maintenance Supervisor
97.02 Surface Waters Exception 97.06 Special Facilities
97.03 Prohibited Discharges    97.07 Control Manholes
97.04 Restricted Discharges    97.08 Testing of Wastes
 
97.01   STORMWATER.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers
that are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a
natural outlet approved by the Maintenance Supervisor. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the Maintenance
Supervisor, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
97.02   SURFACE WATERS EXCEPTION.
Special permits for discharging surface waters to a public sanitary sewer may
be issued by the Council upon recommendation of the Maintenance Supervisor
where such discharge is deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of flushing,
but any permit so issued shall be subject to revocation at any time when deemed
to be in the best interests of the sewer system.
97.03   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
1.   Flammable or Explosive Material. Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil,
or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
2.   Toxic or Poisonous Materials. Any waters or wastes containing toxic or
poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant,
including but not limited to cyanides (CN) in excess of two milligrams per
liter as CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
3.   Corrosive Wastes. Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
4.   Solid or Viscous Substances. Solid or viscous substances in quantities or
of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
5.   Excessive B.O.D., Solids or Flow.
   A.   Any waters or wastes:
      (1)   Having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300 parts
per million by weight; or
      (2)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended
solids; or
      (3)   Having an average daily flow greater than two percent of the
average sewage flow of the City, shall be subject to the review of the
Maintenance Supervisor.
   B.   Where necessary in the opinion of the Maintenance Supervisor, the owner
shall provide, at the owner’s expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight; or
      (2)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight; or
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes.
   A.   C.   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information
relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for
the approval of the Maintenance Supervisor, and no construction of such
facilities shall be commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
97.04   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Maintenance Supervisor that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Maintenance Supervisor will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The
substances restricted are:
1.   High Temperature. Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
150? (65?).
2.   Fat, Oil, Grease. Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or 600
milligrams per liter of dispersed or other soluble matter.
3.   Viscous Substances. Water or wastes containing substances that may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32? and 150? (0? to 65?).
4.   Garbage. Any garbage that has not been properly shredded, that is, to such
a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions
normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half
inch in any dimension.
5.   Acids. Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solution, whether neutralized or not.
6.   Toxic or Objectionable Wastes. Any waters or wastes containing iron,
chromium, copper, zinc, and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or
wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Maintenance Supervisor for such materials.
7.   Odor or Taste. Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or
odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits that may be
established by the Maintenance Supervisor as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of State, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
8.   Radioactive Wastes. Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life
or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Maintenance Supervisor
in compliance with applicable State or federal regulations.
9.   Excess Alkalinity. Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
10.   Unusual Wastes. Materials that exert or cause:
   A.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
   B.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
   C.   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
   D.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting “slugs”
as defined herein.
11.   Noxious or Malodorous Gases. Any noxious or malodorous gas or other
substance that, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, is capable
of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing entry into
sewers for their maintenance and repair.
12.   Damaging Substances. Any waters, wastes, materials, or substances that
react with water or wastes in the sewer system to release noxious gases,
develop color of undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in objectionable
concentration, or create any other condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes.
13.   Untreatable Wastes. Waters or wastes containing substances that are not
amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed,
or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
97.05   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES; POWERS OF MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR.
If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Section 97.04 and which in the judgment of the
Maintenance Supervisor may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard
to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Maintenance Supervisor may:
1.   Rejection. Reject the wastes by requiring disconnection from the public
sewage system;
2.   Pretreatment. Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for
discharge to the public sewers;
3.   Controls Imposed. Require control over the quantities and rates of
discharge; or
4.   Special Charges. Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and
treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the
provisions of Chapter 99.
97.06   SPECIAL FACILITIES.
If the Maintenance Supervisor permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Maintenance Supervisor and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. Where preliminary
treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at the owner’s expense.
97.07   CONTROL MANHOLES.
When required by the Maintenance Supervisor, the owner of any property serviced
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Maintenance
Supervisor. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the owner’s expense,
and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
97.08   TESTING OF WASTES.
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from
periodic grab samples.)
CHAPTER 98
ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
 
98.01 When Prohibited             98.05 Discharge Restrictions
98.02 When Required               98.06 Maintenance of System
98.03 Compliance with Regulations 98.07 Systems Abandoned
98.04 Permit Required             98.08 Disposal of Septage
 
98.01   WHEN PROHIBITED.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.02   WHEN REQUIRED.
When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of Section
95.05, every building wherein persons reside, congregate or are employed shall
be provided with an approved on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
98.03   COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system shall comply with the specifications and
requirements set forth by the Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 69, and
with such additional requirements as are prescribed by the regulations of the
County Board of Health.
(567 IAC 69.1[3 and 4])
98.04   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall install or alter an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system without first obtaining a permit from the County Board of Health.
98.05   DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
It is unlawful to discharge any wastewater from an on-site wastewater treatment
and disposal system (except under an NPDES permit) to any ditch, stream, pond,
lake, natural or artificial waterway, drain tile or to the surface of the
ground.
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
98.06   MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
The owner of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system shall operate
and maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to
the City.
98.07   SYSTEMS ABANDONED.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by an on-
site wastewater treatment and disposal system, as provided in Section 95.05, a
direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with these
Sanitary Sewer chapters and the on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.08   DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.
No person shall dispose of septage from an on-site treatment system at any
location except an approved disposal site.
CHAPTER 99
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
 
99.01 Rates                 99.05 Lien for Nonpayment
99.02 Special Rates         99.06 Deposit
99.03 Private Water Systems 99.07 Special Agreements Permitted
99.04 Payment of Bills
 
99.01   RATES.
Each customer shall pay sewer service charges for the use of and for the
service supplied by the municipal sanitary sewer system as follows:
1.   Residential property owners shall be charged a flat fee per month in
accordance with the following:
   A.   Sanitary Sewer Service   $34.75 (Minimum Bill)
2.   Multi-dwelling, commercial, and industrial property owners shall pay a
monthly charge based on the amount of water consumed as follows:
   A.   First 300 Cubic Feet   $40.96 (Minimum Bill)
   B.   301 to 4,700 Cubic Feet   $1.96 per 100 Cubic Feet
   C.   4,701 to 50,000 Cubic Feet   $1.92 per 100 Cubic Feet
   D.   All in Excess of 50,000 Cubic Feet   $1.63 per 100 Cubic Feet
99.02   SPECIAL RATES.
Where, in the judgment of the Maintenance Supervisor and the Council, special
conditions exist to the extent that the application of the sewer charges
provided in Section 99.01 would be inequitable or unfair to either the City or
the customer, a special rate shall be proposed by the Maintenance Supervisor
and submitted to the Council for approval by resolution.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.03   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS.
Customers whose premises are served by a private water system shall pay sewer
charges based upon the water used as determined by the City either by an
estimate agreed to by the customer or by metering the water system at the
customer’s expense. Any negotiated or agreed-upon sales or charges shall be
subject to approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.04   PAYMENT OF BILLS.
All sewer service charges are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section 92.03. Sewer service may be discontinued or disconnected in accordance
with the provisions contained in Section 92.04 if the combined service account
becomes delinquent, and the provisions contained in Section 92.07 relating to
lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent account.
99.05   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section 92.06, the owner of the premises served and
any lessee or tenant thereof shall be jointly and severally liable for sewer
service charges to the premises. Sewer service charges remaining unpaid and
delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and
shall be certified by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the
same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.06   DEPOSIT.
There shall be required from every customer not the owner of the premises
served a $0.00 deposit intended to guarantee the payment of bills for service.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.07   SPECIAL AGREEMENTS PERMITTED.
No statement in these chapters shall be construed as preventing a special
agreement, arrangement, or contract between the Council, and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted subject to special conditions, rate, and cost as established by the
Council.
CHAPTER 101
STORMWATER CONTROL
 
101.01 Purpose                          101.07 Water Quality Criteria
101.02 Definitions                      101.08 Start Of Construction
101.03 Permits                          101.09 Plan Approvals
101.04 Construction Site Runoff Control 101.10 Annual Inspection
101.05 Inspections                      101.11 Penalties
101.06 Post Development Runoff Control
101.01   PURPOSE.
To provide guidance as well as govern the handling and treatment of stormwater
within the boundaries of the City.
101.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined.
1.   “Adequacy” means in compliance with original plan.
2.   “Best management practices” (BMP) means schedules of activities,
prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management
practices to prevent or reduce the pollution of the MS4 and waters of the
United States. BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating procedures,
and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste
disposal, or drainage from raw material storage.
3.   “Construction site runoff control plan” refers to the Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plan (SWPPP).
4.   “Discharge” means any addition or introduction of any pollutant,
stormwater, or any other substance whatsoever into the municipal separate
stormwater system (MS4) or into water of the United States.
5.   “Environmental Protection Agency” (EPA) means the United States
Environmental Protection Agency, or any duly authorized official of said
agency.
6.   “National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System” (NPDES) means the
national program for issuing, modifying, revoking, reissuing, terminating,
monitoring, and enforcing permits, and imposing and enforcing pretreatment
requirements, under Sections 307, 402, 318, and 405 of the federal Clean Water
Act.
7.   “NPDES permit” means a permit issued by EPA (or by the State under
authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge
of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable
on an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
8.   “Pollutant” means dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, filter backwash, munitions, chemical wastes, biological
materials, toxic materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, and industrial, municipal, recreational,
and agricultural waste discharged into water or into the municipal separate
stormwater system.
9.   “Stormwater” means any flow occurring during or following any form of
natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snow
melt.
10.   “Stormwater discharge associated with industrial activity” means the
discharge from any conveyance which is used for collection and conveying
stormwater, and which is directly related to manufacturing, processing or raw
materials storage areas at an industrial plant. The term does not include
discharges from facilities or activities excluded from the NPDES program under
40 CFR Part 122. For the categories of industries identified in Paragraphs A
through K the term includes, but is not limited to, stormwater discharges from
industrial plant yards, immediate access roads, and rail lines used or traveled
by carriers of raw materials, manufactured products, waste material, or by-
products used or created by the facility; material handling sites; refuse
sites, sites used for the application or disposal of process waste waters (as
defined at 40 CFR Part 401); sites used for the storage and maintenance of
material handling equipment; sites used for residual treatment, storage, or
disposal; shipping and receiving areas; manufacturing buildings; storage areas
(including tank farms) for raw materials, and intermediate and finished
products; and areas where industrial activity has taken place in the past and
significant materials remain and are exposed to stormwater. For the purposes of
this definition material handling activities include storage, loading, and
unloading, transportation, or conveyance of any raw material, intermediate
product, final product, by-product or waste produce. The term excludes areas
located on plant lands separate from the plant’s industrial activities, such as
office buildings and accompanying parking lots as long as the drainage from the
excluded areas is not mixed with stormwater drained from the above-described
areas. Industrial facilities (including industrial facilities that are
federally, State, or municipally owned or operated that meet the description of
the facilities listed in Paragraphs A-K include those facilities designated
under the provisions of 40 CFR §122.26(a)(1)(v). The following categories of
facilities are considered to be engaging in “industrial activity”:
   A.   Facilities subject to stormwater effluent limitation guidelines, new
source performance standards, or toxic pollutant effluent standards under 40
CFR Subchapter N (except facilities with toxic pollutant effluent standards
which are exempted under Paragraph K).
   B.   Facilities classified within Standard Industrial Classification 24,
Industry Group 241 that are rock crushing, gravel washing, log sorting, or log
storage facilities operated in connection with silvicultural activities defined
in 40 CFR 122.27(b)(2)-(3) and Industry Groups 242 through 249 (except 265 and
267), 28 (except 283), 29, 311, 32 (except 323), 33, 3441, 373; (not included
are all other types of silviculture facilities).
   C.   Facilities classified as Standard Industrial Classifications 10 through
14 (mineral industry) including active or inactive mining operations (except
for areas of coal mining operations no longer meeting the definition of a
reclamation area under 40 CFR 434.11(1) because the performance bond issued to
the facility by the appropriate SMCRA authority has been released, or except
for areas of non-coal mining operations which have been released from
applicable State or federal reclamation requirements after December 17, 1990)
and oil and gas exploration, production, processing, or treatment operations,
or transmission facilities that discharge stormwater contaminated by contact
with or that has come into contact with, any overburden, raw material,
intermediate products, finished products, byproducts, or waste products located
on the site of such operations; (inactive mining operations are mining sites
that are not being actively mined, but which have an identifiable owner or
operator; inactive mining sites do not include sites where mining claims are
being maintained prior to disturbances associated with the extraction,
beneficiation, or processing of mined materials, nor sites where minimal
activities are undertaken for the sole purpose of maintaining a mining claim).
   D.   Hazardous waste treatment, storage, or disposal facilities, including
those that are operating under interim status or a permit under Subtitle C of
RCRA.
   E.   Landfills, land application sites, and open dumps that receive or have
received any industrial wastes (waste that is received from any of the
facilities described under this subsection) including those that are subject to
regulation under Subtitle D of RCRA.
   F.   Facilities involved in the recycling of materials, including metal
scrapyards, battery reclaimers, salvage yards, and automobile junkyards,
including but limited to those classified as State Industrial Classification
5015 and 5093.
   G.   Steam electric power generating facilities, including coal handling
sites.
   H.   Transportation facilities classified as Standard Industrial
Classifications 40, 41, 42 (except 4221-25), 43, 44, 45, and 5171 which have
vehicle maintenance shops, equipment cleaning operations, or airport deicing
operations. Only those portions of the facility that are either involved in
vehicle maintenance (including vehicle rehabilitation, mechanical repairs,
painting, fueling, and lubrication), equipment cleaning operations, airport
deicing operations, or which are otherwise identified, under Paragraphs A-G and
I-K of this section are associated with industrial activity.
   I.   Treatment works treating domestic sewage or any other sewage sludge or
wastewater treatment device or system, used in the storage treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of municipal or domestic sewage, including land
dedicated to the disposal of sewage sludge that are located within the confines
of the facility, with a design flow of 1.0 mgd or more, or required to have an
approved pretreatment program under 40 CFR Part 403. Not included are farm
lands, domestic gardens, or lands used for sludge management where sludge is
beneficially reused and which are not physically located in the confines of the
facility, or areas that are not in compliance with Section 405 of the CWA.
   J.   Construction activity including clearing, grading, and excavation,
except operations that result in the disturbance of less than five acres of
total land area. Construction activity also includes the disturbance of less
than five acres of total land area that is a part of a larger common plan of
development or sale if the larger common plan of development or sale if the
larger common plan will ultimately disturb five acres or more.
   K.   Facilities under Standard Industrial Classifications 20, 21, 22, 23,
2434, 25, 265, 267, 27, 283, 285, 30, 31 (except 311), 323, 34 (except 3441),
35, 36, 37 (except 373), 38, 39, and 4221-25.
(40 CFR 122.26(b)(14))
11.   “Statewide Urban Design and Specifications” (SUDAS) means a set of
Statewide specifications developed for uniform implementation and available
from Iowa State University.
12.   “Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan” (SWPPP) means a document which
describes the best management practices and activities to be implemented by a
person to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a premises and the
actions to eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater
conveyance systems, or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
13.   “Water in the State” means groundwater, percolating or otherwise, lakes,
bays, ponds, impounding reservoirs, springs, rivers, streams, creeks, wetlands,
marshes, inlets, canals inside the territorial limits of the State, and all
other bodies of surface water, natural or artificial, navigable or non-
navigable, and including the bed and banks of all watercourses and bodies of
surface water that are wholly or partially inside or bordering the State or
inside the jurisdiction of the State.
101.03   PERMITS.
No development or construction project shall be permitted without the submittal
and approval of a construction site runoff control plan and a post-development
stormwater management plan that is adequate to serve the development. Unless
there has been a determination by the Building Official and Maintenance
Superintendent that such plans are not necessary. The Building Official and
Maintenance Superintendent shall approve both the construction site runoff
control plan and a post-development stormwater management plan. In addition,
the stormwater plans shall also be provided to the Planning and Zoning
Commission as part of a commercial or industrial project approval process.
101.04   CONSTRUCTION SITE RUNOFF CONTROL.
A developer shall comply with all current minimum mandatory requirements for
SWPPPs promulgated by the State Department of Natural Resources in connection
with the issuance of a State NPDES General Permit No. 2. Projects less than one
acre must consult with Building Official and comply with City guidelines.
101.05   INSPECTIONS.
The Building Official shall inspect the construction site runoff control
measures at least every seven days for compliance, adequacy, effectiveness, and
condition. Deficiencies or failure to maintain the construction control
measures may result in a “stop work order” until the deficiency or maintenance
issue resolved to the satisfaction of the Inspector.
101.06   POST DEVELOPMENT RUNOFF CONTROL.
1.   All areas within the proposed parcel(s) shall be developed to comply with
Statewide Urban Design Standards (SUDAS) and shall manage stormwater quality
volume of 1.25 inches by infiltration processes according to the Iowa
Stormwater Management Manual.
2.   The plan must be designed to prevent the post-development rate of runoff
from the subdivision or site plan development from exceeding the predevelopment
rate of runoff for a five-year to a 100-year, 24-hour storm as defined by the
Iowa Stormwater Management Manual.
3.   Adequate overland relief with a proper easement established for storms
larger than a 100-year storm as defined by the Iowa Stormwater Management
Manual shall be provided.
4.   The design is to be completed and signed by a licensed engineer.
101.07   WATER QUALITY CRITERIA.
1.   Post-development runoff shall be captured and treated by water quality
best management practices (BMP), as recognized by the SUDAS and the Iowa
Stormwater Management Manual, to prevent or minimize water quality impacts from
land development. The applicant shall use the below information to comply with
this criterion:
   A.   Structural and non-structural practices shall be designed to capture
and treat the Water Volume (WQv). The WQv shall be computed as specified in the
Iowa Stormwater Management Manual.
   B.   This criterion shall be met using practices from the Stormwater
Technology section in the Iowa Stormwater Management Manual. BMPs or
combinations of BMPs shall be selected that achieve the highest pollutant load
reduction for the pollutants of concern.
2.   The design is to be completed and signed by a licensed engineer.
3.   The developer and contractor shall provide an adequate means or method for
the control of construction waste. The control measure must ensure that solid
building materials, chemicals, concrete truck wash out, and sanitary waste are
contained and disposed of in an approved manner.
101.08   START OF CONSTRUCTION.
No construction, excavating, clearing, grubbing, or other soil disturbing
activity requiring a State NPDES permit shall be allowed until a copy of the
State permit is provided with the application for a City permit and the City
approves the application.
101.09   PLAN APPROVALS.
1.   If necessary, the stormwater plan provided to the City shall incorporate a
means to accommodate or redirect existing stormwater that may be entering the
development or project site from adjacent property(s) or streets. The Planning
and Zoning Commission and Building Official shall approve the accommodation for
the stormwater from adjacent areas.
2.   The stormwater plan for a development or project may not negatively impact
an adjacent property or street.
101.10   ANNUAL INSPECTION.
The Building Official shall inspect the post-development runoff control
measures annually for compliance, adequacy, effectiveness, and condition.
101.11   PENALTIES.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
municipal infraction. The City, at its discretion, may perform maintenance on a
stormwater detention facility or swale such as to remove standing water,
replace grass, mow, perform insect control, and remove sediment. Costs of the
maintenance will be billed back to the landowner. A 24-hour notice will be
given to the landowner prior to the City performing the required maintenance.
CHAPTER 105
SOLID WASTE CONTROL
 
105.01 Purpose                    105.06 Separation of Yard Waste Required
105.02 Definitions                105.07 Littering Prohibited
105.03 Sanitary Disposal Required 105.08 Toxic and Hazardous Waste
105.04 Health and Fire Hazard     105.09 Waste Storage Containers
105.05 Open Burning Restricted    105.10 Prohibited Practices
105.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters in this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Solid
Waste Control and Collection is to provide for the sanitary storage,
collection, and disposal of solid waste and, thereby, to protect the citizens
of the City from such hazards to their health, safety, and welfare as may
result from the uncontrolled disposal of solid waste.
105.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters the following terms are defined:
1.   “Collector” means any person authorized to gather solid waste from public
and private places.
2.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit, or drop.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[1])
3.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located within a
structure and forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or
are intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
4.   “Garbage” means all solid and semisolid, putrescible animal and vegetable
waste resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing, serving, and
consuming of food or of material intended for use as food, and all offal,
excluding useful industrial by-products, and includes all such substances from
all public and private establishments and from all residences.
(567 IAC 100.2)
5.   “Landscape waste” means any vegetable or plant waste except garbage. The
term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves,
grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings.
(567 IAC 20.2)
6.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials, or
debris not exceeding 10 pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume. Litter
includes but is not limited to empty beverage containers, cigarette butts, food
waste packaging, other food or candy wrappers, handbills, empty cartons, or
boxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[2])
7.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person residing
in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating, or transacting business in any
premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities,
liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.
8.   “Refuse” means putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including but not
limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residues, street cleanings,
market and industrial solid waste, and sewage treatment waste in dry or
semisolid form.
(567 IAC 100.2)
9.   “Residential premises” means a single-family dwelling and any multiple
family dwelling up to and including eight separate dwelling units.
10.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises as a
result of residential activities. The term includes landscape waste grown on
the premises or deposited thereon by the elements, but excludes garbage, tires,
trade wastes, and any locally recyclable goods or plastics.
(567 IAC 20.2)
11.   “Rubbish” means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible and
non-combustible waste, such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind.
(567 IAC 100.2)
12.   “Sanitary disposal” means a method of treating solid waste so that it
does not produce a hazard to the public health or safety or create a nuisance.
(567 IAC 100.2)
13.   “Sanitary disposal project” means all facilities and appurtenances
(including all real and personal property connected with such facilities) that
are acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved,
extended, maintained, or operated to facilitate the final disposition of solid
waste without creating a significant hazard to the public health or safety, and
which are approved by the Director of the State Department of Natural
Resources. “Sanitary disposal project” does not include a pyrolysis or
gasification facility as defined in Section 455B.301 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
14.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar discarded
solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such materials
resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic activities.
Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined by Section 321.1 of the Code of
Iowa. Solid waste does not include any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
   A.   Hazardous waste regulated under the Federal Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.
   B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of Iowa,
except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific wastes
have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.
   C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
   D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to acceptable
State or federal standards.
   E.   Steel slag which is a product resulting from the steel manufacturing
process and is managed as an item of value in a controlled manner and not as a
discarded material.
   F.   Material that is legitimately recycled pursuant to Section 455D.4A of
the Code of Iowa.
   G.   Post-use polymers or recoverable feedstocks that are any of the
following:
      (1)   Processed at a pyrolysis or gasification facility.
      (2)   Held at a pyrolysis or gasification facility prior to processing to
ensure production is not interrupted.
15.   “Toxic and hazardous waste” means waste materials, including (but not
limited to) poisons, pesticides, herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological
waste, flammable or explosive materials, and similar harmful waste that
requires special handling and that must be disposed of in such a manner as to
conserve the environment and protect the public health and safety.
(567 IAC 100.2)
16.   “Yard waste” means any debris such as grass clippings, leaves, garden
waste, brush, and trees. Yard waste does not include tree stumps.
105.03   SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
It is the duty of each owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of all refuse
accumulating on the owner’s premises before it becomes a nuisance. Any such
accumulation remaining on any premises for a period of more than 15 days shall
be deemed a nuisance and the City may proceed to abate such nuisances in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 50 or by initiating proper action in
district court.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 657)
105.04   HEALTH AND FIRE HAZARD.
It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises, improved
or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste that
constitute a health, sanitation or fire hazard.
105.05   OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.
No person shall allow, cause, or permit open burning of combustible materials
where the products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passing
through a chimney or stack, except that open burning is permitted in the
following circumstances:
(567 IAC 23.2 and 100.2)
1.   Disaster Rubbish. The open burning of rubbish, including landscape waste,
for the duration of the community disaster period in cases where an officially
declared emergency condition exists, provided that the burning of any
structures or demolished structures is conducted in accordance with 40 CFR
Section 61.145.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“a”)
2.   Flare Stacks. The open burning or flaring of waste gases, provided such
open burning or flaring is conducted in compliance with applicable rules of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“c”)
3.   Recreational Fires. Open fires for cooking, heating, recreation, and
ceremonies, provided they comply with the limits for emission of visible air
contaminants established by the State Department of Natural Resources. Rubber
tires shall not be burned in a recreational fire.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“e”)
4.   Training Fires. Fires set for the purpose of conducting bona fide training
of public or industrial employees in firefighting methods, provided that the
training fires are conducted in compliance with rules established by the State
Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“g”)
5.   Pesticide Containers and Seed Corn Bags. The disposal by open burning of
paper or plastic pesticide containers (except those formerly containing organic
forms of beryllium, selenium, mercury, lead, cadmium, or arsenic) and seed corn
bags resulting from farming activities occurring on the premises if burned in
accordance with rules established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“h”)
6.   Controlled Burning of a Demolished Building. The controlled burning of a
demolished building by the City, subject to approval of the Council, provided
that the controlled burning is conducted in accordance with rules and
limitations established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“j”)
7.   Variance. Any person wishing to conduct open burning of materials not
permitted herein may make application for a variance to the Director of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[2])
105.06   SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.
All yard waste shall be separated by the owner or occupant from all other solid
waste accumulated on the premises and shall be placed in acceptable containers
and set out collection. Yard waste bundles shall not exceed four feet in
length, two feet in diameter, 50 pounds in weight, or as otherwise specified in
current contract. Yard waste shall be collected from residential premises once
each week from April 1 to November 30.
105.07   LITTERING PROHIBITED.
No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized collection
and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles provided for such
purpose. When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle, the driver of the motor
vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case where doubt exists as to
which occupant of the motor vehicle actually discarded the litter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.363)
105.08   TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.
No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection any toxic or hazardous waste. Such materials shall be transported
and disposed of as prescribed by the Director of the State Department of
Natural Resources.  
(567 IAC 100.2)
(567 IAC 102.13[2] and 400 IAC 27.14[2])
105.09   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or renting any premises,
dwelling unit or any place where refuse accumulates shall provide and at all
times maintain in good order and repair portable containers for refuse in
accordance with the following:
1.   Container Specifications. Waste storage containers shall comply with the
following specifications:
   A.   Residential. Residential waste containers, whether they are reusable,
portable containers or heavy-duty disposable garbage bags, shall not be more
than 35 gallons in nominal capacity, and shall be leak-proof and waterproof.
The total weight of any container and contents shall not exceed 50 pounds.
Disposable containers shall be kept securely fastened and shall be of
sufficient strength to maintain integrity when lifted, and reusable containers
shall be in conformity with the following:
      (1)   Be fitted with a fly-tight lid that shall be kept in place except
when depositing or removing the contents of the container.
      (2)   Have handles, bails, or other suitable lifting devices or features.
      (3)   Be of a type originally manufactured for the storage of residential
waste with tapered sides for easy emptying.
      (4)   Be of lightweight and sturdy construction.
   B.   Galvanized metal containers, rubber or fiberglass containers, and
plastic containers that do not become brittle in cold weather may be used.
2.   Location of Containers for Collection. Containers for the storage of solid
waste awaiting collection shall be placed outdoors at some easily accessible
place by the owner or occupant of the premises served by 6:00 a.m. on the
regularly scheduled collection days. However, no containers shall be placed at
the curb side for collection earlier than 6:00 p.m. on the night before the
regularly scheduled collection day and no container shall remain at the curb
side later than 10:00 p.m. on the day of collection.
3.   Nonconforming Containers. Solid waste placed in containers that are not in
compliance with the provisions of this section will not be collected.
105.10   PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
It is unlawful for any person to:
1.   Unlawful Use of Containers. Deposit refuse in any solid waste containers
not owned by such person without the written consent of the owner of such
containers.
2.   Interfere with Collectors. Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors be those of the
City, or those of any other authorized waste collection service.
3.   Incinerators. Burn rubbish or garbage except in incinerators designed for
high temperature operation, in which solid, semisolid, liquid, or gaseous
combustible refuse is ignited and burned efficiently, and from which the solid
residues contain little or no combustible material, as acceptable to the
Environmental Protection Commission.
4.   Scavenging. Take or collect any solid waste that has been placed out for
collection on any premises, unless such person is an authorized solid waste
collector, a member of a law enforcement agency, or other authorized personnel.
CHAPTER 106
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
 
106.01 Collection Service      106.07 Collector’s Permit
106.02 Collection Vehicles     106.08 Collection Fees
106.03 Loading                 106.09 Lien for Nonpayment
106.04 Frequency of Collection 106.10 Curbside Recycling Program
106.05 Bulky Rubbish           106.11 Hours of Collection
106.06 Right of Entry
 
106.01   COLLECTION SERVICE.
The City shall provide by contract for the collection of solid waste, except
bulky rubbish as provided in Section 106.05, from residential premises only.
The owners or operators of commercial, industrial, or institutional premises
shall provide for the collection of solid waste produced upon such premises.
106.02   COLLECTION VEHICLES.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of garbage
and similar putrescible waste or solid waste containing such materials shall be
leak-proof, durable and of easily cleanable construction. They shall be cleaned
to prevent nuisances, pollution, or insect breeding and shall be maintained in
good repair.
(567 IAC 104.9)
106.03   LOADING.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of any solid
waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents will not
fall, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be covered to prevent blowing or loss
of material. Where spillage does occur, the material shall be picked up
immediately by the collector or transporter and returned to the vehicle or
container and the area properly cleaned.
106.04   FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
All solid waste shall be collected from residential premises at least once each
week and from commercial, industrial, and institutional premises as frequently
as may be necessary, but not less than once each week.
106.05   BULKY RUBBISH.
Bulky rubbish that is too large or heavy to be collected in the normal manner
of other solid waste may be collected by the collector upon request in
accordance with procedures established by the Council.
106.06   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property for
the purpose of collecting solid waste, as required by this chapter; however,
solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or other residential
buildings.
106.07   COLLECTOR’S PERMIT.
No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting, processing
or disposing of solid waste other than waste produced by that person within the
City without first obtaining from the City an annual permit in accordance with
the following:
1.   Application. Application for a solid waste collector’s permit shall be
made to the Clerk and provide the following:
   A.   Name and Address. The full name and address of the applicant, and if a
corporation, the names and addresses of the officers thereof.
   B.   Equipment. A complete and accurate listing of the number and type of
collection and transportation equipment to be used.
   C.   Collection Program. A complete description of the frequency, routes and
method of collection and transportation to be used.
   D.   Disposal. A statement as to the precise location and method of disposal
or processing facilities to be used.
2.   Insurance. No collector’s permit shall be issued until and unless the
applicant, in addition to all other requirements set forth, shall file and
maintain with the City evidence of satisfactory public liability insurance
covering all operations of the applicant pertaining to such business and all
equipment and vehicles to be operated in the conduct thereof in the following
minimum amounts:
      Bodily Injury:   $100,000.00 per person.
            $300,000.00 per occurrence.
      Property Damage:   $ 50,000.00
Each insurance policy required hereunder shall include as a part thereof
provisions requiring the insurance carrier to notify the City of the
expiration, cancellation or other termination of coverage not less than 10 days
prior to the effective date of such action.
3.   Permit Fee. A permit fee in the amount of $100.00 shall accompany the
application. In the event the requested permit is not granted, the fee paid
shall be refunded to the applicant.
4.   Permit Issued. If the Council upon investigation finds the application to
be in order and determines that the applicant will collect, transport, process,
or dispose of solid waste without hazard to the public health or damage to the
environment and in conformity with law and ordinance, the requested permit
shall be issued to be effective for a period of one year from the date
approved.
5.   Permit Renewal. An annual permit may be renewed simply upon payment of the
required fee, provided the applicant agrees to continue to operate in
substantially the same manner as provided in the original application, and
provided the applicant furnishes the Clerk with a current listing of vehicles,
equipment, and facilities in use.
6.   Permit Not Transferable. No permit authorized by this chapter may be
transferred to another person.
7.   Owner May Transport. Nothing herein is to be construed so as to prevent
the owner from transporting solid waste accumulating upon premises owned,
occupied or used by such owner, provided such refuse is disposed of properly in
an approved sanitary disposal project.
8.   Grading or Excavation Excepted. No permit is required for the removal,
hauling, or disposal of earth and rock material from grading or excavation
activities; however, all such materials shall be conveyed in tight vehicles,
trucks or receptacles so constructed and maintained that none of the material
being transported spills upon any public right-of-way.
106.08   COLLECTION FEES.
The collection and disposal of solid waste as provided by this chapter are
declared to be beneficial to the property served or eligible to be served and
there shall be levied and collected fees for the same, in accordance with the
following:
(Goreham vs. Des Moines, 1970, 179 NW 2nd, 449 [Iowa 1970])
1.   Residential Rates. The monthly fee for solid waste collection and disposal
service, used or available, for each residential premises shall be as follows:
   A.   Solid Waste Collection Service   $20.00
1.   2.   Payment of Bills. All fees are due and payable under the same terms
and conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained
in Section 92.03. Solid waste collection service may be discontinued in
accordance with the provisions contained in Section 92.04 if the combined
service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions contained in Section
92.07 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
106.09   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section 92.06 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner
of the premises served, and any lessee or tenant thereof are jointly and
severally liable for fees for solid waste collection and disposal. Fees
remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the property or
premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for
collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
106.10   CURBSIDE RECYCLING PROGRAM.
The City shall provide for the collection of recyclable material in accordance
with the provisions of the contract between the City and the collector. All
recyclable material shall be separated and prepared for collection in
accordance with the rules and regulations as established by the collector.
106.11   HOURS OF COLLECTION.
All collection of solid waste shall be conducted in accordance with and subject
to the provisions of this chapter and shall be performed between the hours of
6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
CHAPTER 110
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
 
110.01 Franchise Granted               110.08 Force Majeure
110.02 Term                            110.09 Hold Harmless
110.03 Governing Rules and Regulations 110.10 Non-Waiver
110.04 Construction and Maintenance of 110.11 Repeal of Conflicting Ordinances
Facilities
110.05 Extension of Facilities         110.12 Default
110.06 Relocation of Facilities        110.13 Franchise Fee
110.07 Confidential Information
 
110.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
The City hereby grants a nonexclusive franchise to Aquila, Inc, d/b/a Aquila
Networks, a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called “Grantee”), its lessees,
successors, and assigns. Grantee is hereby granted the right, privilege,
franchise, permission, and authority to lay, construct, install, maintain,
operate, and extend in, along, over, or across the present and future streets,
alleys, avenues, bridges, public rights-of-way, and public places as are now
within the present or future limits of the City, a natural gas distribution
system and all facilities necessary for the purpose of supplying natural gas or
processed gas for all purposes to the inhabitants of the City and consumers in
the vicinity thereof, and for the distribution of natural gas from or through
the City to points beyond the limits thereof. Such facilities include (but are
not limited to) all mains, services, pipes, conduits, and appliances necessary
or convenient for transmitting, transporting, distributing, and supplying
natural gas for all purposes for which it may be used, and to do all other
things necessary and proper in providing natural gas service to the inhabitants
of the City and in carrying on such business.
110.02   TERM.
The right and privileges granted by this chapter shall remain in effect for a
period of 25 years from the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter.† 6
 
Notes
6 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 602, adopting a natural gas franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on January 21, 2008.
110.03   GOVERNING RULES AND REGULATIONS.
1.   The franchise is granted subject to all conditions, limitations, and
immunities now provided for, or as hereafter amended, and applicable to the
operations of a public utility, by State or federal law. The rates to be
charged by Grantee for service within the present or future corporate limits of
the City and the rules and regulations regarding the character, quality, and
standards of service to be furnished by Grantee shall be under the jurisdiction
and control of such regulatory body or bodies as may, from time to time, be
vested by law with authority and jurisdiction over the rates, regulations and
quality and standards of service to be supplied by Grantee. Provided, however,
should any judicial, regulatory or legislative body, having proper
jurisdiction, take any action that precludes Grantee from recovering from its
customers any cost associated with services provided hereunder, then the
Grantee and City shall renegotiate the terms of this chapter in accordance with
the action taken, so as to allow Grantee to be made whole economically. In
determining the rights and duties of the Grantee, the terms of this chapter
shall take precedence over any conflicting terms or requirements contained in
any other ordinance enacted by the City.
2.   If an energy supplier is unable to furnish an adequate supply of energy
due to an emergency, an order or decision of a public regulatory body, or other
acts beyond the control of the Grantee, then the Grantee shall have the right
and authority to adopt reasonable rules and regulations limiting, curtailing,
or allocating extensions of service or supply of energy to any customers or
prospective customers, and withholding the supply of energy to new customers,
provided that such rules and regulations are uniform as applied to each class
of customers or prospective customers, and are non-discriminatory as between
communities receiving service from the Grantee.
110.04   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES.
Any pavements, sidewalks or curbing taken up and any and all excavations made
shall be done in such a manner as to cause only such inconvenience to the
inhabitants of the City and to the general public as is reasonably necessary;
and repairs and replacements shall be made promptly by Grantee, leaving such
properties in as good as condition as existed immediately prior to excavation
to the reasonable satisfaction of the City. Grantee agrees that for the term of
the franchise, it will use its best efforts to maintain facilities and
equipment sufficient to meet the current and future energy requirements of the
City, its inhabitants and industries. While maintaining its facilities and
equipment, Grantee shall obtain permits as required by ordinance, except that
in emergency situations, Grantee shall take immediate unilateral actions as it
determines are necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; in
which case, Grantee shall notify the City as soon as reasonably possible. The
City will give Grantee reasonable notice of plans for street improvements where
paving or resurfacing of a permanent nature is involved that affect Grantee’s
facilities. The notice shall contain the nature and character of the
improvements, the rights-of-way upon which the improvements are to be made, the
extent of the improvements and the time when the City will start the work, and
if more than one right-of-way is involved, the order in which this work is to
proceed. The notice shall be given to the Grantee a sufficient length of time,
considering seasonable working conditions, in advance of the actual
commencement of the work to permit the Grantee to make any additions,
alterations, or repairs to its facilities.
110.05   EXTENSION OF FACILITIES.
Upon receipt and acceptance of a valid application for service, Grantee shall,
subject to its own economic feasibility criteria, make reasonable extensions of
its distribution facilities to serve customers located within the current or
future corporate limits of the City.
110.06   RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
If the City elects to change the grade of or otherwise alter any street, alley,
avenue, bridge, public right-of-way or public place for a public purpose,
Grantee, upon reasonable notice from the City, shall remove and relocate its
facilities or equipment situated in the public rights-of-way, if such removal
is necessary to prevent interference and not merely for the convenience of the
City, at the cost and expense of Grantee. If the City orders or requests
Grantee to relocate its facilities or equipment for the primary benefit of a
commercial or private project, or as a result of the initial request of a
commercial or private developer or other non-public entity, and such removal is
necessary to prevent interference and not merely for the convenience of the
City or other right-of-way user, Grantee shall receive payment for the cost of
such relocation as a precondition to relocating its facilities or equipment.
The City shall consider reasonable alternatives in designing its public works
projects so as not arbitrarily to cause Grantee unreasonable additional expense
in exercising its authority under this section. The City shall also provide a
reasonable alternative location for Grantee’s facilities. The City shall give
Grantee written notice of vacating of a public right-of-way. Vacating of a
public right-of-way shall not deprive the Grantee of its right to operate and
maintain existing facilities, until the reasonable cost of relocating the same
are first paid to the Grantee. Any person or corporation desiring to move a
building or other structure along, or to make any unusual use of any street,
alley, avenue, bridge, public right­ of-way or public place which shall
interfere with the facilities or equipment of the Grantee, shall first give
notice to the City and the Grantee and pay a sum sufficient to cover the
expense and damage incident to the moving of Grantee’s facilities and
equipment. Grantee, its successors and assigns, shall connect its mains to all
qualified applicants for gas under the provisions of this chapter, constructing
such service connections from the main to the structure, up to 175 feet,
without charge to the applicant. In urban renewal areas established pursuant to
law, Grantee agrees, at its sole cost and expense, to disconnect, sever from
its system and abandon or salvage, at its option, all existing gas distribution
mains, services and appurtenances necessary to the clearing of such areas,
under urban renewal plans so long as such areas are or will be, pursuant to the
urban renewal plan, devoted to a public purpose; and to furnish in replatted
and rebuilt urban renewal areas new or replacement mains and services connected
to Grantee’s gas distribution system, at the expense of Grantee so long as such
areas are devoted to a public purpose; provided, however, if any State or
federal funds should be available which could be obtained by the City or
Grantee to defray the expense or costs of such changes, adjustment,
installations, or relocations of Grantee’s gas distribution system (including,
but not restricted to, relocations caused by highway construction within the
urban renewal area), the City shall assist Grantee in all efforts to secure the
same, as long as City’s credits would not thereby be diminished.
110.07   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
The City acknowledges that certain information it might request pursuant to
this chapter may be of a proprietary and confidential nature. If Grantee
requests that any information provided by Grantee to the City be kept
confidential due to such proprietary or commercial value, the City and its
employees, agents, and representatives shall maintain the confidentiality of
that information, to the extent allowed by law. If the City is requested or
required by legal or administrative process to disclose any such confidential
information, the City shall promptly notify Grantee of such request or
requirement so that Grantee may seek an appropriate protective order or other
relief. The City shall use all reasonable efforts to ensure that the
confidentiality of Grantee's confidential information is maintained.
110.08   FORCE MAJEURE.
It shall not be a breach or default under this chapter if either party fails to
perform its obligations hereunder due to Force Majeure. Force Majeure includes,
but is not limited to, the following: (i) physical events such as acts of God,
landslides, lightning, earthquakes, fires, freezing, storms, floods, washouts,
explosions, breakage or accident or necessity of repairs to machinery,
equipment or distribution or transmission lines; (ii) acts of others such as
strikes, work-force stoppages, riots, sabotage, insurrections or wars; (iii)
governmental actions such as necessity for compliance with any court order,
law, statute, ordinance, executive order, or regulation promulgated by a
governmental authority having jurisdiction; and any other causes, whether of
the kind herein enumerated or otherwise not reasonably within the control of
the affected party to prevent or overcome. Each party shall make reasonable
efforts to avoid Force Majeure and to resolve such event as promptly as
reasonably possible once it occurs in order to resume performance; provided,
however, this provision shall not obligate a party to settle any labor strike.
110.09   HOLD HARMLESS.
Grantee, during the term of the franchise, agrees to save harmless the City
from and against all claims, demands, losses and expenses, including attorney
fees and costs, arising directly out of the negligence of Grantee, its
employees or agents, in the constructing, operating, and maintaining of
distribution and transmission facilities or appliances of Grantee; provided,
however, Grantee need not save harmless the City from claims, demands, losses
and expenses arising out of the negligence of the City, its employees, or
agents.
110.10   NON-WAIVER.
Any waiver of any obligation or default under this chapter shall not be
construed as a waiver of any future defaults, whether of like or different
character.
110.11   REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
This chapter constitutes the entire agreement between the City and the Grantee
relating to the franchise, and the same shall supersede all prior ordinances
pertaining to the franchise agreement, and any terms and conditions of such
prior ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed.
110.12   DEFAULT.
If Grantee shall be in default in the performance of any of the terms and
conditions of this chapter and continues in default for more than 30 days after
receiving notice from the City of such default, the City may, by ordinance duly
passed and adopted, terminate all rights granted under this chapter. The notice
of default shall specify the manner in which it is claimed the Grantee is in
default. Such notice shall be in writing and served by registered or certified
mail.
110.13   FRANCHISE FEE.
If, during the term of the franchise, there shall be enacted by the Iowa
General Assembly a valid taxing statute authorizing the City to collect a tax
on the gas revenues received by Grantee from its customers in the City, then if
such tax is levied by the City, said Grantee will include such tax as a
separate item on its customers’ bills and remit the sums collected to the City
under the terms and provisions of such enacted statute.
CHAPTER 111
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
 
111.01 Franchise Granted                         111.05 System Requirements
111.02 Construction Maintenance; Indemnification 111.06 Nonexclusive
111.03 Meters; Service Lines                     111.07 Service Provided
111.04 Emergencies                               111.08 Term of Franchise
 
111.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
There is hereby granted to the Omaha Public Power District, hereinafter
referred to as the “Company,” its successors and assigns, the right and
franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain and operate in the City, works
and plants for the manufacture and generation of electricity and a distribution
system for electric light, heat and power and the right to erect and maintain
the necessary poles, lines, wires, conduits, and other appliances for the
transmission of electric current along, under and upon the streets, avenues,
alleys and public places in the City; also the right to erect and maintain upon
the streets, avenues, alleys and public places, transmission lines through the
City, to supply individuals, corporations, communities and municipalities both
inside and outside of the City with electric, light, heat, and power for the
period of 25 years;† 7  also the right to eminent domain as provided in Section
364.2 of the Code of Iowa.
 
Notes
7 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 533, adopting an electric franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on May 21, 2002.
111.02   CONSTRUCTION MAINTENANCE; INDEMNIFICATION.
The poles, wires, and appliances shall be placed and maintained so as not to
unnecessarily interfere with the travel on said streets, alleys and public
places in the City or unnecessarily interfere with the proper use of the same,
including ordinary drainage or with the sewers, underground pipe and other
property of the City, and the Company and its successors and assigns shall hold
the City free and harmless from all damages arising from any negligence of the
Company in the erection or maintenance of said system.
111.03   METER; SERVICE LINES.
The Company, its successors and assigns, shall furnish and install all meters
and service wires to buildings at its own expense and the City expressly
reserves the right of the Council to carry out any and all powers and duties as
provided by law.
111.04   EMERGENCIES.
In case of fire or other emergencies, the poles, wires and street fixtures of
the Company may be cut and moved by order of the Mayor or Fire Chief. The City
shall also have the right to place on the poles of the Company wires for fire
alarm system, providing however, that the placing of said wires does not
interfere with the proper use and maintenance of the Company’s wires.
111.05   SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
The system authorized by this chapter shall be modern and up-to-date and shall
be of sufficient capacity to supply all reasonable demands of the City and the
inhabitants thereof and shall be kept in a modem up-to-date condition.
111.06   NONEXCLUSIVE.
The franchise granted by this chapter shall not be exclusive.
111.07   SERVICE PROVIDED.
Service to be rendered by the Company under this franchise shall be continuous
24-hour service each day of the week unless prevented from so doing by fire,
acts of God, unavoidable accidents or casualties, and in such event service
shall be resumed as quickly as is reasonably possible.
111.08   TERM OF FRANCHISE.
The term of the franchise granted by this chapter and the rights granted
thereunder shall continue for the period of 25 years from and after its
acceptance by the Company.
CHAPTER 114
CABLE TELEVISION REGULATIONS
114.01 Purpose and Scope              114.14 Maps, Plats, and Reports
114.02 Definitions                    114.15 Emergency Use of Facilities
114.03 Compliance with Applicable Law 114.16 Change of Control of Grantee
114.04 Performance Standards          114.17 Inspection of Records
114.05 Operation and Maintenance;     114.18 Supervision and Inspection
Complaints
114.06 Program Alteration Prohibited  114.19 Filings and Communications with
                                      Regulatory Agencies
114.07 Removal of Existing Antenna    114.20 Discrimination Prohibited
114.08 Safety Requirements            114.21 Other Business Activities
                                      Prohibited
114.09 Conditions on Street Use       114.22 Hold Harmless
114.10 Placement and Use of Poles     114.23 Insurance
114.11 Removal of Equipment Upon      114.24 Bonds
Expiration
114.12 Service Rules and Regulations  114.25 Payment of Costs
114.13 Rates
114.01   PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate cable television systems within the
City which operate pursuant to City franchise and to so regulate consistent
with Federal Communications Commission rules and regulations and other
applicable statutes, ordinances or regulations.
114.02   DEFINITIONS.
Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context clearly indicates a different
intention, the following words and phrases, for the purpose of this chapter,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
1.   “Cable television system” means any facility that, in whole or in part,
receives directly or indirectly over the air and amplifies or otherwise
modifies the signals transmitting programs broadcast by one or more television
or radio stations and distributes such signals, and other signals originated or
supplied by Grantee or others, by wire or cable, to subscribing members of the
public who pay for such services. Such term does not include any facility that
serves fewer than 50 subscribers, or any such facility that serves only the
residents of one or more apartment dwellings under common ownership, control or
management, and commercial establishments located on the premises of such an
apartment house.
2.   “Channel” means a three MHz band for transmission of visual and audio
signals for television.
3.   “Converter” means a device capable of providing more than the number of
channels on a standard television receiver.
4.   “Distortion” means the departure, during transmission or amplification,
from the received signal waveform from that of the original transmitted
waveform.
5.   “Existing connection”" means the connection of the cable or wire to a
television or radio receiver when the house drop has previously been installed.
6.   “FCC” means the Federal Communications Commission.
7.   “Franchise” means a legal contract between the City and a person which
contract contains terms and conditions for construction and operating a cable
television system.
8.   “Ghost images” means weak or shadowy images in the received picture,
offset from the primary image.
9.   “Grantee” means a person holding a franchise to operate a cable television
system.
10.   “House drop” means the wire or cable that connects each building or home
to the main (trunk) cable.
11.   “New connection” means the installation of a house drop and the
connection of the cable or wire to a television or radio receiver.
12.   “Outlet” means the point of connection of the cable or wire to a
television or radio receiver.
13.   “Subscriber” means a person who purchases cable television services.
114.03   COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAW.
Grantee shall at all times comply with the rules and regulations of the FCC and
shall also comply with all other applicable statutes, ordinances and
regulations. FCC rules and regulations shall in all cases be controlling if any
part of this chapter or any cable television franchise is in conflict with any
FCC rules and regulations.
114.04   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
A grantee shall produce a picture in black and white or in color that is
undistorted, free from ghost images and accompanied by proper sound on typical
standard production television sets in good repair. A grantee shall also
transmit signals of adequate strength to produce good pictures with good sound
at all outlets throughout the City without causing cross modulation in the
cables or interfering with other electrical or electronic systems.
114.05   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE; COMPLAINTS.
In addition to the requirements already imposed, a grantee shall perform the
following with regard to the operation and maintenance of a cable television
system:
1.   Maintain an office in the Metropolitan Omaha-Council Bluffs area which
shall be open during all normal business hours. Grantee shall also have a
listed telephone number and be so operated that complaints and requests for
repairs or adjustments may be received at any time.
2.   Limit failures of the system to a minimum and locate and correct all
malfunctions involving the house drop and all other malfunctions between the
trunk line and the television or radio receiver within 24 hours following
notice by a subscriber, whenever possible.
3.   Insure the availability of a sufficient number of repairmen between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. daily.
4.   Keep service interruptions involving the production and distribution
systems as short as practical and, insofar as possible, schedule such
interruptions during periods of minimum use of the system and precede them by
notice.
5.   Upon termination of service to any subscriber, promptly remove all its
facilities and equipment from subscriber’s premises upon request without
charge.
6.   Be capable of distributing color television signals. When signals are
received in color they shall be distributed in color.
All complaints to the City shall be forwarded to the Mayor. The Mayor shall
forward the complaint to the grantee, and the grantee shall satisfy the
complaint or advise the Mayor of its refusal or inability to do so within a
reasonable time. If the grantee satisfies the complaint, it shall so notify the
Mayor. When a complaint has not been satisfied, the Mayor shall notify the
complainant that the complainant has 30 days from the receipt of the notice to
file a formal complaint with the Council. Upon receipt of a formal complaint,
the Council or its designated agent shall ascertain the facts and shall have
the power to enforce its decision, if against grantee, by all actions
hereunder, including the revocation of the franchise.
114.06   PROGRAM ALTERATION PROHIBITED.
All programs of broadcasting stations carried by a grantee shall be carried in
their entirety as received, with announcements and advertisements and without
additions.
114.07   REMOVAL OF EXISTING ANTENNA.
A grantee shall in no way tamper with or remove an existing television antenna
without the subscriber’s consent.
114.08   SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
A grantee shall at all times employ reasonable care in the installation and
maintenance of its cable television system in accordance with commonly accepted
good engineering methods and practices. A grantee shall install and maintain
its wires, cables, fixtures and other equipment in accordance with the
requirements of Article 820 and Section 230.24(b) of the National Electric
Code. All structures, lines, equipment or connections in, over, under or upon
the streets, sidewalks, alleys and public ways or places of the City shall at
all times be kept and maintained in a safe condition, free from nuisance, and
in good working order and repair and shall not in any way interfere with any
installations of the City of any public utility serving the City.
114.09   CONDITIONS ON STREET USE.
1.   A-1 transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment erected
by the grantee within the City shall be located so as not to interfere with the
proper use of the streets, alleys and other public ways and places, and to
cause minimum interference with the rights or reasonable convenience of
property owners who adjoin any of the streets, alleys or other public ways and
places and not to interfere with existing public utility installations. In all
areas of the City where all the cables, wires or other like facilities of
public utilities are placed underground, the grantee shall place its cables,
wires and other like facilities underground to the maximum extent existing
technology permits. The grantee shall furnish to and file with the City maps,
plats and permanent records of the locations and character of all facilities
constructed, including underground facilities.
2.   In the case of any excavation or disturbance of pavement, sidewalks,
driveways or other surfacing, the grantee shall be subject to all applicable
City ordinances. The grantee shall, at its own expense and in the manner
provided by the City, replace and restore all paving, sidewalks, driveway or
other surface of the street, alley, or public way or place disturbed.
3.   If, at any time during the period of the franchise, the City shall
lawfully elect to alter or change the grade or location of any street, alley or
public way, the grantee shall, upon reasonable notice by the City, remove,
relay and relocate its poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes,
and other fixtures at its own expense, and in each instance shall comply with
the requirements of the City.
4.   The grantee shall not place poles, conduits or other fixtures above or
below the ground where the same will interfere with any gas, electric,
telephone fixtures, water hydrants or other utility; and all such poles,
conduits or other fixtures placed in any street shall be so placed as to comply
with all requirements of the City.
5.   The grantee shall, on the request of any person, after permission has been
granted by the City, temporarily move its wires or fixtures to permit the
moving of buildings. The expense of such temporary removal shall be paid by the
person requesting the same. The grantee shall be given not less than 48 hours’
advance notice.
6.   The grantee shall have the authority to trim trees upon and overhanging
streets, alleys, sidewalks and public places of the City so as to prevent the
branches of such trees from coming in contact with the wires and cables of the
grantee. All trimming is to be done under the supervision and direction of the
City and at the expense and liability of the grantee.
114.10   PLACEMENT AND USE OF POLES.
1.   Where poles or other wire-holding structures already serving the City are
available for use by any grantee, but grantee does not make arrangements for
such use, the City may require a grantee to use such poles and structures if
the City determines that the public convenience would be enhanced thereby and
if the terms of the use available to the grantee are just and reasonable.
2.   Where the City or a public utility serving the City desires to make use of
the poles or other wire-holding structures of a grantee, but agreement with a
grantee cannot be reached, the City may require the grantee to permit such use
for such consideration and upon such terms as the City shall deem to be just
and reasonable, if the City determines that the use would enhance the public
convenience and would not unduly interfere with a grantee’s operations.
114.11   REMOVAL OF EQUIPMENT UPON EXPIRATION.
Upon the termination or cancellation of this cable television franchise,
grantee shall remove its poles, cable television transmission and distribution
systems, and all other appurtenances from the streets, sidewalks and public
ways of the City, and shall restore the same to their original condition. If
grantee refuses to remove such items or fails to remove such items in a
reasonable time after notification by the City, the City shall have the right
and authority to remove such poles, cable television transmission and
distribution systems, and other appurtenances from the City streets, sidewalks
and public ways.
114.12   SERVICE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
A grantee shall have the right to prescribe reasonable service rules and
regulations regarding access channels not inconsistent with the provisions of
the grantee's franchise, this chapter, or of any other ordinances of the City
and not inconsistent with the laws of the State and the United States. Such
rules shall be filed with the City before submission to the FCC.
A grantee shall also submit to the City the form of its service agreements
between grantee and its subscribers for approval by the City and shall furnish
for approval any amendments or alterations to the service agreement.
114.13   RATES.
All rates for service shall be reasonable, compensatory and nondiscriminatory.
Except as may otherwise be provided in a franchise, a grantee shall have the
right, privilege and authority to change the rates and charges.
114.14   MAPS, PLATS, AND REPORTS.
A grantee shall submit to the Building Official maps and plats showing all
existing and proposed cable television installations in the City. A grantee
shall submit upon request all business records or reports to the City.
Furthermore, a grantee shall make periodic reports, but not less than annually,
to the City concerning cable television operations and shall also furnish to
the City an annual audit of its accounts by certified public accountants.
114.15   EMERGENCY USE OF FACILITIES.
In the event of any emergency or disaster, grantee shall, upon the request of
the Mayor, make its facilities available to the City for emergency use during
the emergency or disaster.
114.16   CHANGE OF CONTROL OF GRANTEE.
Prior approval of the Council shall be required where ownership or control of
more than 25 percent of the right of a grantee is acquired by a person or
several persons acting in concert, none of whom already own or control 25
percent or more of such right of control, singularly or collectively. Any such
acquisition occurring without prior approval of the Council shall constitute a
violation of a grantee’s franchise.
114.17   INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
The City shall have the right, power and authority to inspect the records of
any grantee at the premises of such grantee during the normal business hours of
any working day, or at any other reasonable time and place provided that
grantee is given no less than seven days’ notice.
114.18   SUPERVISION AND INSPECTION.
The City shall have the right to supervise any construction or installation
work performed by any grantee in the City and make such inspections as it finds
necessary to insure compliance with the terms of any cable television
franchise, this chapter, or other pertinent provisions of the law.
114.19   FILINGS AND COMMUNICATIONS WITH REGULATORY AGENCIES.
Copies of all petitions, applications, communications and reports submitted by
any grantee to the FCC, Securities and Exchange Commission, or any other
federal or State regulatory commission or agency having jurisdiction in regard
to any matters affecting cable television shall also be submitted
simultaneously to the Council.
114.20   DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
A grantee shall not, as to rates, charges, services, service facilities, rules
and regulations, or in any other respect, make or grant any undue preference or
advantage to any person, or subject any person to prejudice or disadvantage.
Nothing in this section, however, shall be deemed to prohibit promotional
campaigns to stimulate subscriptions to the system or deemed to prohibit the
charging of special rates so long as that rate is reasonable, lawful and has
received the prior approval of the Council after notice and hearing. A grantee
shall not discriminate against any person on the basis of race, disability,
religion, creed, color, sex, national origin or ancestry. Furthermore, a
grantee shall also take affirmative action to recruit employees from members of
minority groups.
114.21   OTHER BUSINESS ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
A grantee shall not engage in the business of selling, repairing or installing
television receivers, radio receivers or accessories for such receivers within
the City during the term of this cable television franchise, except as provided
in grantee's franchise or as provided in this chapter.
114.22   HOLD HARMLESS.
A grantee shall at all times defend, indemnify, protect and hold harmless the
City from and against any and all liability, losses and damage to property or
bodily injury or death to any person, including payments made under worker’s
compensation laws, which may arise out of or be caused by the erection,
construction, replacement, removal, maintenance or operation of grantee's cable
television system and caused by any act or failure to act on the part of
grantee, its agents. officers, servants, or employees. A grantee shall hold the
City harmless against any damages resulting from legal action which may be
brought against it in connection with the establishment or operation of a
grantee's cable television system in the City and shall defend, at its own
expense, any action brought against the City by reason of the erection,
construction, replacement, removal, maintenance or operation of a grantee’s
cable television system.
114.23   INSURANCE.
A grantee shall promptly, after the granting of grantee's franchise, provide
liability insurance for personal injuries or death growing out of any one
accident or other cause in a minimum sum of $100,000.00 for one person, and
$500,000.00 aggregate for each accident. A grantee shall also provide insurance
in the amount of $100,000.00 for property damage resulting from any one
accident. A grantee shall maintain such insurance with insurance underwriters
authorized to do business in the State of Iowa satisfactory to the City. All
policies shall name the City, its employees, servants, agents, and officers as
additional named insured parties. In addition, the City shall receive at least
10 days’ prior written notice of any cancellation or change in any said
insurance policy. A grantee shall furnish the City with a certificate of
insurance from grantee’s carrier indicating that there is such insurance
coverage as herein provided for, and if requested by the City, shall submit to
the City two certified copies of said policies.
114.24   BONDS.
1.   Performance Bonds. Upon acceptance of franchise, a grantee shall furnish
the City a surety bond in the sum of $50,000.00, which bond shall indemnify the
City against any loss occasioned by the default of the grantee in the
construction of the system. Upon grantee’s activating the system, this bond
shall be canceled and exonerated. The bond shall be issued by a surety company
qualified to do business in the State.
2.   Surety Bonds. Grantee shall furnish to the City a surety bond in the sum
of $5,000.00 or in an amount at least equal to the sum of the franchise fee
paid to the City in the immediately preceding year, whichever is greater, and
the bond shall commence at the date of the grantee’s placing the system into
operation. The bond shall be issued by a surety company qualified to do
business in the State. The bond shall be conditioned to insure payment of any
franchise fee to the City and to insure faithful performance of the Grantee’s
franchise under the terms of this chapter.
114.25   PAYMENT OF COSTS.
In the granting of any cable television franchise, the City shall be governed
by the applicable provisions of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa or such other
enactments of the General Assembly which might hereafter amend or supersede
said chapter. Furthermore, any person asking the Council to initiate the
submission of the question of granting a cable television franchise to the
electors of the City or any person petitioning the Council to submit the cable
television franchise question shall pay the costs incurred in holding such
franchise election.
CHAPTER 120
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS
 
120.01 License or Permit Required 120.05 Prohibited Sales and Acts
120.02 General Prohibition        120.06 Persons Under Legal Age
120.03 Investigation              120.07 Amusement Devices
120.04 Action by Council          120.08 Dancing In Licensed Premises
120.01   LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, or offer or keep for sale,
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a liquor control
license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122, and 123.171)
120.02   GENERAL PROHIBITION.
It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer, or keep for sale, possess,
or transport alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer except upon the terms, conditions,
limitations, and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa,
and a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil penalty may be
imposed for a violation thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39, and 123.50)
120.03   INVESTIGATION.
Upon receipt of an application for a retail alcohol license, the Clerk may
forward it to the Police Chief, who shall then conduct an investigation and
submit a written report as to the truth of the facts averred in the
application. The Fire Chief may also inspect the premises to determine if they
conform to the requirements of the City. The Council shall not approve an
application for a license for any premises that does not conform to the
applicable law and ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.30)
120.04   ACTION BY COUNCIL.
The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of a retail alcohol
license, shall endorse its approval or disapproval on the application, and
shall forward the application with the necessary fee and bond, if required, to
the Iowa Department of Revenue.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32[2])
120.05   PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
A person holding a retail alcohol license and the person’s agents or employees
shall not do any of the following:
1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic beverage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[1])
2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage on the premises covered by the
license, or permit its consumption thereon between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and
6:00 a.m. on any day of the week.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2b])
3.   Sell alcoholic beverages to any person on credit, except with a bona fide
credit card. This provision does not apply to sales by a club to its members,
to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests, or to retail sales
by the managing entity of a convention center, civic center, or events center.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2c])
4.   Employ a person under 18 years of age in the sale or serving of alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises where sold, except as follows:
   A.   Definitions. For use in this subsection the following terms are defined
as follows:
      (1)   “Bar” means an establishment where one may purchase alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises and in which the serving of food is
only incidental to the consumption of those beverages.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 142D.2[1])
      (2)   “Restaurant” means eating establishments, including private and
public school cafeterias, which offer food to the public, guests, or employees,
including the kitchen and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere, and including a bar area within a restaurant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 142D.2[17])
   B.   This subsection shall not apply if the employer has, on file, written
permission from the parent, guardian, or legal custodian of a person 16 or 17
years of age for the person to sell or serve alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises where sold. However, a person 16 or 17 years of age
shall not work in a bar as defined in Paragraph A.
      (1)   The employer shall keep a copy of the written permission on file
until the person is either 18 years of age or no longer engaged in the sale of
or serving alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
      (2)   If written permission is on file in accordance with Paragraph B, a
person 16 or 17 years of age may sell or serve alcoholic beverages in a
restaurant as defined above in Paragraph A during the hours in which the
restaurant serves food.
   C.   A person 16 or 17 years of age shall not sell or serve alcoholic
beverages under this subsection unless at least two employees 18 years of age
or older are physically present in the area where alcoholic beverages are sold
or served.
   D.   If a person employed under this subsection reports an incident of
workplace harassment to the employer or if the employer otherwise becomes aware
of such an incident, the employer shall report the incident to the employee’s
parent, guardian, or legal custodian and to the Iowa Civil Rights Commission,
which shall determine if any action is necessary or appropriate under Chapter
216 of the Code of Iowa.
   E.   An employer that employs a person under this subsection shall require
the person to attend training on prevention and response to sexual harassment
upon commencing employment.
   F.   Prior to a person commencing employment under this subsection, the
employer shall notify the employer’s dramshop liability insurer, in a form and
time period prescribed by the Director, that the employer is employing a person
under this subsection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2f])
5.   In the case of a retail wine or beer permittee, knowingly allow the mixing
or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to wine, beer, or any other
beverage in or about the permittee’s place of business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2i])
6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2a])
7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2j])
8.   Keep on premises covered by a retail alcohol license any alcoholic liquor
in any container except the original package purchased from the Iowa Department
of Revenue and except mixed drinks or cocktails mixed on the premises for
immediate consumption. However, mixed drinks or cocktails that are mixed on the
premises and are not for immediate consumption may be consumed on the licensed
premises, subject to rules adopted by the Iowa Department of Revenue.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2d])
9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or receptacle
used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or adulterate, by the
addition of any substance, the contents or remaining contents of an original
package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly possess any original
package that has been reused or adulterated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2e])
10.   Allow any person other than the licensee or employees of the licensee to
use or keep on the licensed premises any alcoholic liquor in any bottle or
other container that is designed for the transporting of such beverages, except
as allowed by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2g])
11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine that is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a vaporized
form.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2k])
120.06   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
1.   No person or club holding a retail alcohol license which authorizes
consumption on the premises, and no agent or employee of any such person shall
allow any person under the age for lawful consumption or possession of
alcoholic beverages to enter or remain in the licensed or permitted
establishment after 9:00 p.m. unless:
   A.   The licensee or permittee applies for and qualifies for an exception
certificate from the Police Chief as follows:
      (1)   A licensee or permittee whose primary business purpose is not the
sale of alcoholic beverages, wine or beer may qualify for an exception upon
submission of a verified statement from a certified public accountant or an
accountant which establishes that more than 50 percent of the licensee’s or
permittee’s gross sales are from the sale of goods or services other than for
the sale of alcoholic beverages, wine or beer which shall not include income
from cover charges, entertainment fees, drink mixes or nonalcoholic beverages.
      (2)   In addition to the statement mentioned in Subparagraph (1) of this
section, proof of qualification may include State and federal tax records for
the previous year, articles of incorporation, and receipts from specific
vendors which itemize goods purchased related to the applicant’s primary
business purpose from the previous six months as requested by the Police Chief.
      (3)   The Council may issue an exception certificate if the licensee or
permittee has satisfied the requirements in this subsection. An exception
certificate shall be effective for the duration of the alcoholic liquor control
license or wine or beer permit.
   B.   The licensee or permittee applies for a special event exception from
the Council, which may, at its discretion, allow the holder to provide
entertainment to persons under legal age as follows:
      (1)   A licensee or permittee may qualify for a special event exception
when an application is submitted to the Clerk at least 45 business days prior
to the proposed special event. Such application shall include the name and
address of the licensed or permitted establishment, the type of event for which
an exception is applied, the proposed date for the event and the time of the
event.
      (2)   All alcoholic liquor, wine or beer is removed or stored so that it
is not available for sale or consumption during the extended period of the
special event.
      (3)   A special event exception shall be valid through the date of the
special event or for the duration of the alcoholic liquor control license or
wine or beer permit, whichever is first in time.
      (4)   Failure to comply with the terms of this special event exception
shall result in the revocation or denial of such an exception application for
one year.
      (5)   For special events not exceeding five days in duration where a
street closure has been authorized by the Council and a temporary liquor
control license has been issued, the Council may issue a special exception for
the event, such exception to be limited to outdoor areas covered by the
temporary liquor control license. The Council’s discretion may include but is
not limited to past experience with policing the same event, staffing, and any
special difficulties in policing the proposed event.
   C.   The licensee or permittee posts a current exception certificate at the
main entrance in the view of patrons of the licensed or permitted
establishment.
   D.   No more than four exception certificates per calendar year may be
issued under these provisions.
2.   No person or club holding a retail alcohol license which authorizes
consumption on the premises shall fail to post notices at all entrances to the
licensed or permitted premises in the view of patrons of the licensed or
permitted establishment that persons under legal age are not allowed in the
premises after 9:00 p.m. unless the licensee or permittee has a current
exception certificate posted under this section.
After 9:00 p.m., no person under the age for lawful consumption or possession
of alcoholic beverages shall enter into or remain on he premises of a licensed
or permitted establishment which authorizes consumption on the premises which
does not have a valid exception certificated posted under this section.
120.07   AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
The following provisions pertain to electrical or mechanical amusement devices
possessed and used in accordance with Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa. (Said
devices are allowed only in premises with a retail alcohol license, as
specifically authorized in said Chapter 99B.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.57)
1.   As used in this section, “registered electrical or mechanical amusement
device” means an electrical or mechanical device required to be registered with
the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals, as provided in Section 99B.53 of
the Code of Iowa.
2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to participate in the
operation of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device.
3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing a registered electrical or
mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing a
registered electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 21 to participate in the operation of a registered
electrical or mechanical amusement device.
4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the operation of
a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under the
age of 21.
120.08   DANCING IN LICENSED PREMISES.
Dancing is authorized in connection with the operation of a beer, wine, or
liquor business under a permit or license, provided that:
1.   The floor space used for dancing purposes therein contains at least 100
square feet, all of which is on the same general floor level as the place where
the beer, wine, or liquor is dispensed;
2.   The space to be used for dancing is in the same room as or in a room
adjacent to and opening directly from the place where beer, wine or liquor is
dispensed; and
3.   The floor space shall not be obstructed or crossed, in any part or
portion, by partitions or other obstructions of any kind except necessary
structural posts, pillars or similar supports.
No permittee or licensee, except clubs operating under club permits, shall be
entitled to the benefit of the authorization provided in this section unless
such permittee or licensee first obtains a public dance license as provided in
Chapter 128 of this Code of Ordinances, and any dancing allowed by such
permittee or licensee who has not first obtained such license shall be deemed a
violation.
CHAPTER 121
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS
 
121.01 Definitions             121.06 Refunds
121.02 Permit Required         121.07 Persons Under Legal Age
121.03 Application             121.08 Self-Service Sales Prohibited
121.04 Fees                    121.09 Permit Revocation
121.05 Issuance and Expiration
121.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)
1.   “Alternative nicotine product” means a product, not consisting of or
containing tobacco, that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing, or
by any other means. “Alternative nicotine product” does not include cigarettes,
tobacco products, or vapor products, or a product that is regulated as a drug
or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of tobacco,
or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and irrespective
of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored, adulterated, or mixed
with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper or cover made of paper
or any other material. However, cigarette shall not be construed to include
cigars.
3.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are sold, stored, or kept for
the purpose of sale or consumption by a retailer.
4.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes, or offers for sale
for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for consumption,
cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products, irrespective of
the quantity or amount or the number of sales, or who engages in the business
of selling tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products to ultimate consumers.
5.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display, placement, or
storage from which a person purchasing the product may take possession of the
product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the retailer or employee of
the retailer, in removing the product from a restricted access location.
6.   “Tobacco products” means the following: cigars; little cigars; cheroots;
stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other
smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and other
chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and sweepings
of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such manner as to
be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or for both chewing
and smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.
7.   “Vapor product” means any noncombustible product, which may or may not
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic
circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of
shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other
substance. “Vapor product” includes an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any
cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which may or may
not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device. “Vapor product” does not include a product regulated as a
drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter
V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
121.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
1.   Retail Cigarette Permits. It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes, alternative nicotine products,
or vapor products at retail and no retailer shall distribute, sell, or solicit
the sale of any cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products
within the City without a valid permit for each place of business. The permit
shall, at all times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be
easily seen by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13)
2.   Retail Tobacco Permits. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products at any place of business without first having
received a permit as a retailer for each place of business owned or operated by
the retailer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A)
A retailer who holds a retail cigarette permit is not required to also obtain a
retail tobacco permit. However, if a retailer only holds a retail cigarette
permit and that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the retailer shall
not sell any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products, during such time.
121.03   APPLICATION.
A completed application on forms furnished by the State Department of Revenue
or on forms made available or approved by the Department and accompanied by the
required fee shall be filed with the Clerk. Renewal applications shall be filed
at least five days prior to the last regular meeting of the Council in June. If
a renewal application is not timely filed, and a special Council meeting is
called to act on the application, the costs of such special meeting shall be
paid by the applicant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.04   FEES.
The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
 
FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:    FEE:
July, August, or September     $ 75.00
October, November, or December $ 56.25
January, February, or March    $ 37.50
April, May, or June            $ 18.75
121.05   ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.
Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, a permit shall be
issued. Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for
which it is issued and shall be nonassignable. All permits expire on June 30 of
each year. The Clerk shall submit a duplicate of any application for a permit
to the Iowa Department of Revenue within 30 days of issuance of a permit.
121.06   REFUNDS.
A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.07   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
A person shall not sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes to any
person under 21 years of age. The provision of this section includes
prohibiting a person under 21 years of age from purchasing tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, and cigarettes from a
vending machine. If a retailer or employee of a retailer violates the
provisions of this section, the Council shall, after written notice and
hearing, and in addition to the other penalties fixed for such violation,
assess the following:
1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty in
the amount of $300.00. Failure to pay the civil penalty as ordered under this
subsection shall result in automatic suspension of the permit for a period of
14 days.
2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer shall be
assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 or the retailer’s permit
shall be suspended for a period of 30 days. The retailer may select its
preference in the penalty to be applied under this subsection.
3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 60 days.
5.   For a fifth violation within a period of four years, the retailer’s permit
shall be revoked.
The Clerk shall give 10 days’ written notice to the retailer by mailing a copy
of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the application for a
permit. The notice shall state the reason for the contemplated action and the
time and place at which the retailer may appear and be heard.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22, and 453A.36[6])
121.08   SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.
Except for the sale of cigarettes through a cigarette vending machine as
provided in Section 453A.36[6] of the Code of Iowa, a retailer shall not sell
or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, or cigarettes through the use of a self-service display.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)
121.09   PERMIT REVOCATION.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by the
Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or
any rule adopted thereunder. If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be
issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person
for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has
expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown
to the Council. The Clerk shall report the revocation or suspension of a retail
permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within
30 days of the revocation or suspension.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)
CHAPTER 122
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
122.01 Purpose                            122.11 Time Restriction
122.02 Definitions                        122.12 Revocation of License
122.03 License Required                   122.13 Notice
122.04 Application for License            122.14 Hearing
122.05 License Fees                       122.15 Record and Determination
122.06 Bond Required                      122.16 Appeal
122.07 License Issued                     122.17 Effect of Revocation
122.08 Display of License                 122.18 Rebates
122.09 License Not Transferable           122.19 License Exemptions
122.10 Shouting, Loudspeaker Systems, and 122.20 Charitable and Nonprofit
Other Noises                              Organizations
122.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to protect residents of the City against fraud,
unfair competition, and intrusion into the privacy of their homes by licensing
and regulating peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants.
122.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Peddler” means any person carrying goods or merchandise who sells or
offers for sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise from house to
house or upon the public street.
2.   “Solicitor” means any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from
house to house or upon the public street any contribution or donation or any
order for goods, services, subscriptions, or merchandise to be delivered at a
future date.
3.   “Transient merchant” means any person who engages in a temporary or
itinerant merchandising business and in the course of such business hires,
leases, or occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who operates out
of a vehicle that is parked anywhere within the City limits. Temporary
association with a local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer, or conduct of
such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any
local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer does not exempt any person from
being considered a transient merchant.
122.03   LICENSE REQUIRED.
Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting, or in the business of a transient
merchant in the City without first obtaining a license as herein provided is in
violation of this chapter.
122.04   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
An application in writing shall be filed with the Clerk for a license under
this chapter. Such application shall set forth the applicant’s name, permanent
and local address, and business address if any. The application shall also set
forth the applicant’s employer, if any, and the employer’s address, the nature
of the applicant’s business, the last three places of such business, and the
length of time sought to be covered by the license. Upon the receipt of such
application, the Clerk shall refer the same to the Police Chief, who shall make
such investigation of the character and reputation of the persons who will
conduct the business within the City, as the Police Chief deems necessary for
the protection of the public good.
122.05   LICENSE FEES.
The following license fees shall be paid to the Clerk prior to the issuance of
any license.
1.   Solicitors and Peddlers    $25.00 per week;
2.   Transient Merchants   $50.00 per week.
Any period of seven calendar days or less is considered one week.
122.06   BOND REQUIRED.
Before a license under this chapter is issued to a transient merchant, an
applicant shall provide to the Clerk evidence that the applicant has filed a
bond with the Secretary of State in accordance with Chapter 9C of the Code of
Iowa.
122.07   LICENSE ISSUED.
Based on the results of the investigation as to the character and business
reputation of the persons who will conduct the business, the Police Chief shall
recommend approval or disapproval of the application. If the Police Chief
recommends disapproval of the application, the reasons therefor shall be
stated. If, as a result of the investigation, the Police Chief finds that the
character and business responsibility of all persons conducting the business
are satisfactory, the Police Chief shall endorse approval of the application.
Upon receipt of the Police Chief’s recommendation for approval and the required
license fee, the Clerk shall issue the license.
122.08   DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
Each solicitor or peddler shall keep such license in possession at all times
while doing business in the City and shall, upon the request of prospective
customers, exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with all requirements
of this chapter. Each transient merchant shall display publicly such merchant’s
license in the merchant’s place of business.
122.09   LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application.
122.10   SHOUTING, LOUDSPEAKER SYSTEMS, AND OTHER NOISES.
No licensee hereunder or any person in the licensee’s behalf shall shout, blow
on a horn, or use any other noise-making device for the purpose of advertising
or otherwise announcing or proclaiming wares or business activities except as
the same may be permissible under any other ordinance of the City or stature of
the State.
122.11   TIME RESTRICTION.
All peddler’s and solicitor’s licenses shall provide that said licenses are in
force and effect only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and sunset.
122.12   REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the Clerk may
revoke any license issued pursuant to this chapter for the following reasons:
1.   Fraudulent Statements. The licensee has made fraudulent statements in the
application for the license or in the conduct of the business.
2.   Violation of Law. The licensee has violated this chapter or has otherwise
conducted the business in an unlawful manner.
3.   Endangered Public Welfare, Health, or Safety. The licensee has conducted
the business in such manner as to endanger the public welfare, safety, order,
or morals.
The Clerk shall send the written notice to the licensee at the licensee’s local
address. The notice shall contain particulars of the complaints against the
licensee, the ordinance provisions or State statutes allegedly violated, and
the date, time, and place for hearing on the matter.
122.13   NOTICE.
The Clerk shall notify the licensee at the licensee’s local address not less
than 10 days before the date set for a hearing on the possible revocation of a
license. Such notice shall contain particulars of the complaints against the
licensee, the ordinance provisions or State statutes allegedly violated, and
the date, time, and place for the hearing on the matter.
122.14   HEARING.
The Clerk shall conduct a hearing at which both the licensee and any
complainants shall be present to determine the truth of the facts alleged in
the complaint and notice. Should the licensee, or authorized representative,
fail to appear without good cause, the Clerk may proceed to a determination of
the complaint.
122.15   RECORD AND DETERMINATION.
The Clerk shall make and record findings of fact and conclusions of law, and
shall revoke a license only when upon review of the entire record the Clerk
finds clear and convincing evidence of substantial violation of this chapter or
State law.
122.16   APPEAL.
If the Clerk revokes or if the Police Chief refuses to approve an application
for a license, the Clerk shall make a part of the record the reasons for such
revocation or refusal. The licensee, or the applicant, shall have a right to a
hearing before the Council at its next regular meeting. The Council may
reverse, modify, or affirm the decision of the Clerk or Police Chief by a
majority vote of the Council members present and the Clerk shall carry out the
decision of the Council.
122.17   EFFECT OF REVOCATION.
Revocation of any license shall bar the licensee from being eligible for any
license under this chapter for a period of one year from the date of the
revocation.
122.18   REBATES.
Any licensee, except in the case of a revoked license, shall be entitled to a
rebate of part of the fee paid if the license is surrendered before it expires.
The amount of the rebate shall be determined by dividing the total license fee
by the number of days for which the license was issued and then multiplying the
result by the number of full days not expired. In all cases, at least $5.00 of
the original fee shall be retained by the City to cover administrative costs.
122.19   LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
The following are excluded from the application of this chapter.
1.   Newspapers. Persons delivering, collecting for, or selling subscriptions
to newspapers.
2.   Club Members. Members of local civic and service clubs, Boy Scout, Girl
Scout, 4-H Clubs, Future Farmers of America, and similar organizations.
3.   Local Residents and Farmers. Local residents and farmers who offer for
sale their own products.
4.   Students. Students representing the Council Bluffs School District
conducting projects sponsored by organizations recognized by the school.
5.   Route Sales. Route delivery persons who only incidentally solicit
additional business or make special sales.
6.   Resale or Institutional Use. Persons customarily calling on businesses or
institutions for the purposes of selling products for resale or institutional
use.
7.   Minor Businesses. An on-site transactional business traditionally operated
exclusively by a person under the age of 18, operated on an occasional basis
for no more than 89 calendar days in a calendar year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[13])
122.20   CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
Authorized representatives of charitable or nonprofit organizations operating
under the provisions of Chapter 504 of the Code of Iowa desiring to solicit
money or to distribute literature are exempt from the operation of Sections
122.04 and 122.05. All such organizations are required to submit to the Clerk
in writing the name and purpose of the cause for which such activities are
sought, names and addresses of the officers and directors of the organization,
the period during which such activities are to be carried on, and whether any
commissions, fees, or wages are to be charged by the solicitor and the amount
thereof. If the Clerk finds that the organization is a bona fide charity or
nonprofit organization, the Clerk shall issue, free of charge, a license
containing the above information to the applicant. In the event the Clerk
denies the exemption, the authorized representatives of the organization may
appeal the decision to the Council, as provided in Section 122.16 of this
chapter.
CHAPTER 123
AGGRESSIVE SOLICITATION
 
123.01 Definitions          123.03 Citation
123.02 Illegal Solicitation 123.04 Violation
123.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter:
1.   “Aggressive manner” includes all of the following:
   A.   Touching or causing physical contact with the person solicited.
   B.   Blocking or attempting to block the passage of the person solicited.
   C.   Continuing to solicit after a refusal by the person solicited.
   D.   Following behind, ahead of, or alongside a person who walks away from
the solicitor after being solicited.
   E.   Using obscene, profane, or abusive language or gestures toward the
person solicited.
   F.   Using a sign to solicit, including a sign that includes obscene,
profane, or abusive language.
2.   “Automated teller machine” or “ATM” means a device linked to a financial
institution’s account records, which is able to carry out transactions,
including, but not limited to: account transfers, deposits, cash withdrawals,
and balance inquiries.
3.   “Solicit” means to request an immediate donation of money or other thing
of value from another person, regardless of the solicitor’s purpose or intended
use of the money or other thing of value. The solicitation may be, without
limitation, by the spoken, written, or printed word or by other means of
communication.
123.02   ILLEGAL SOLICITATION.
It is unlawful for any person:
1.   To solicit in an aggressive manner or in a manner that will impair orderly
movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic or otherwise create unreasonable
health and safety concerns.
2.   To solicit within 10 feet of any building.
3.   To solicit within 15 feet of a crosswalk.
4.   To solicit within 20 feet of an automated teller machine.
5.   To solicit within 10 feet of a mobile vendor.
6.   To solicit within 15 feet of another solicitor.
123.03   CITATION.
Except for soliciting in an aggressive manner, no person shall be cited under
Section 123.02 unless the person engages in conduct prohibited by said
subsection after having been notified by a peace officer that the conduct
violates this Code.
123.04   VIOLATION.
Any violation of this chapter shall be punishable as a simple misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 124
HOUSE MOVERS
 
124.01 House Mover Defined 124.07 Permit Issued
124.02 Permit Required     124.08 Public Safety
124.03 Application         124.09 Time Limit
124.04 Bond Required       124.10 Removal by City
124.05 Insurance Required  124.11 Protect Pavement
124.06 Permit Fee          124.12 Overhead Wires
124.01   HOUSE MOVER DEFINED.
A “house mover” means any person who undertakes to move a building or similar
structure upon, over or across public streets or property when the building or
structure is of such size that it requires the use of skids, jacks, dollies, or
any other specialized moving equipment.
124.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the activity of house mover as
herein defined without a valid permit from the City for each house, building,
or similar structure to be moved.
124.03   APPLICATION.
Application for a house mover’s permit shall be made in writing to the Clerk on
a form provided by the City. The application shall include:
1.   Name and Address. The applicant’s full name and address and, if a
corporation, the names and addresses of its principal officers.
2.   Building Location. An accurate description of the present location and
future site of the building or similar structure to be moved.
3.   Routing Plan. A routing plan approved by the Mayor, Street Superintendent,
and public utility officials. The route approved shall be the shortest route
compatible with the greatest public convenience and safety.
124.04   BOND REQUIRED.
The applicant shall post with the Clerk a penal bond in the minimum sum of
$5,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue such bonds in the
State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for any damage done to
the City or to public property, and payment of all costs incurred by the City
in the course of moving the building or structure.
124.05   INSURANCE REQUIRED.
Each applicant shall also file a certificate of insurance indicating that the
applicant is carrying public liability insurance in effect for the duration of
the permit covering the applicant and all agents and employees for the
following minimum amounts:
1.   Bodily Injury – $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
2.   Property Damage – $50,000.00 per accident.
124.06   PERMIT FEE.
A permit fee of $0.00 shall be payable at the time of filing the application
with the Clerk. A separate permit shall be required for each house, building or
similar structure to be moved.
124.07   PERMIT ISSUED.
Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and insurance certificate, and
payment of the required fee, the Clerk shall issue a permit. A separate permit
shall be required for each house, building, or similar structure to be moved.
124.08   PUBLIC SAFETY.
At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon any street,
alley, sidewalk, or public property, the permittee shall maintain flag persons
at the closest intersections or other possible channels of traffic to the
sides, behind, and ahead of the building or structure. At all times when the
building or structure is at rest upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or public
property the permittee shall maintain adequate warning signs or lights at the
intersections or channels of traffic to the sides, behind, and ahead of the
building or structure.
124.09   TIME LIMIT.
No house mover shall permit or allow a building or similar structure to remain
upon any street or other public way for a period of more than 12 hours without
having first secured the written approval of the City.
124.10   REMOVAL BY CITY.
In the event any building or similar structure is found to be in violation of
Section 124.09, the City is authorized to remove such building or structure and
assess the costs thereof against the permit holder and the surety on the permit
holder’s bond.
124.11   PROTECT PAVEMENT.
It is unlawful to move any house or building of any kind over any pavement,
unless the wheels or rollers upon which the house or building is moved are at
least one inch in width for each 1,000 pounds of weight of such building. If
there is any question as to the weight of a house or building, the estimate of
the City as to such weight shall be final.
124.12   OVERHEAD WIRES.
The holder of any permit to move a building shall see that all telephone, cable
television, and electric wires and poles are removed when necessary and
replaced in good order and shall be liable for the costs of the same.
CHAPTER 125
JUNK AND SALVAGE YARDS
 
125.01 Definitions             125.07 Access Roads
125.02 License Required        125.08 Enclosure Required
125.03 License Fee             125.09 Sanitary Premises
125.04 Premises Inspection     125.10 Compliance With Other Provisions
125.05 Validity; Renewal       125.11 Purchase From Minor Unlawful
125.06 License Nontransferable
125.01   DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, words, and phrases are
deemed to have the following definitions:
1.   “Junk dealer” means any person who alone or through agents engages in the
business of buying selling, receiving, collecting, or dealing in old iron,
lead, brass, steel, copper or other metals, bottles, rags, or paper.
2.   “Junk or salvage vehicle” means any vehicle, or portion thereof, not in
running or operable condition or not licensed for the current year as provided
by law.
3.   “Salvage operator” means any person who engages in the business of a junk
dealer, as defined in this section, or who engages in the business of operating
a wrecking yard or salvage yard, as defined in this section.
4.   “Salvage yard” or “wrecking yard” means any location in the City where
used automobiles or other large articles are dismantled, scrapped or junked, or
the same are bought or sold for the purpose of dismantling the same for their
parts or for the purpose of converting the same into scrap or junk.
125.02   LICENSE REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of being a salvage
operator, as defined in this chapter, without having first obtained a license
from the City to do so. Any person desiring to engage in the business of
salvage operator in the City must first make application for a license to do
so, on a form to be furnished for such purpose by the office of the Clerk. The
application shall contain the following information:
1.   The name and place of residence of the applicant, as well as the business
address, if any.
2.   If the applicant is a firm, partnership, corporation, or other legal
entity, the names and addresses of all associates, partners or officers thereof
shall be set forth. If the applicant is a foreign corporation, adequate proof
of authority to conduct business within the State must be attached to or
included in the application.
3.   The address of the proposed business location of the applicant where such
salvage operations are to be conducted, giving the street address, legal
description and the total area in square feet available for use in such
operation.
4.   A statement as to whether retail sales will be made on the premises
wherein such salvage operations are to be conducted.
125.03   LICENSE FEE.
The annual fee for a salvage operator’s license shall be $250.00 which shall
accompany the application therefor at the time it is filed in the office of the
Clerk. In the event the application is denied by the Council, the sum of
$250.00 shall be returned to the applicant within 30 days from the date of such
denial. The application shall be filed with the Clerk not less than 10 days
prior to any Council meeting held wherein the same shall be considered, in the
manner hereinafter set forth. The fee may be prorated for the initial
application upon approval of the Council.
125.04   PREMISES INSPECTION.
Subsequent to the filing of the application for a salvage operator’s license,
the Clerk shall refer the same to the Fire Chief and the Building Official,
each of whom shall cause the premises proposed to be used in such salvage
operations to be inspected, and following such inspections, each shall submit
written recommendations to the Council in connection therewith. Thereafter, the
Council shall at either the next regular meeting or at a special meeting either
grant or deny the application.
125.05   VALIDITY; RENEWAL.
The license issued under the terms of this chapter shall be valid for a term of
one year and shall expire on December 31 of the year in which same has been
issued. Request by the licensee for renewal thereof shall be subject to the
same procedure as that prescribed for initial issuance. The fee for such
renewal shall be $100.00 for the ensuing year.
125.06   LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE.
A salvage operator’s license shall be required for each separate location at
which salvage operations are proposed to be conducted, and the fee required
shall be commensurate therewith. The license shall be nontransferable, and in
the event of the discontinuance of such operations by the licensee, either
voluntarily or involuntarily, no refund for the unused portion of the period
for which same was issued shall be granted.
125.07   ACCESS ROADS.
There shall be on site access road or paths to provide adequate entrances and
exits for fire and emergency vehicles.
125.08   ENCLOSURE REQUIRED.
The operations of a wrecking yard or salvage yard. shall be carried on within a
fully enclosed building, except that such operations may be conducted outside a
building but within the premises of the licensee, provided the premises are
fully surrounded and enclosed by a fence not less than eight feet high,
constructed of solid covered fencing materials. The fence may be constructed on
the property line. The requirement as to the type and kind of fencing shall not
be applicable to fencing surrounding the premises of a wrecking yard or salvage
yard in existence at the time of the enactment of the ordinance codified by
this chapter; provided, however, that at such time as the repair to an existing
fence shall exceed 25 percent of the total fence in place, such repair shall be
in accordance with and meet the requirements of this section as to such fence
construction. It is unlawful for any junk, salvage vehicles, wrecking materials
or equipment to be stored or parked on any portion of the City’s public street
right-of-way or parking area thereof, or for the same to be stored or parked
outside on private property unless in a fully enclosed building or fence as
prescribed in this section.
125.09   SANITARY PREMISES.
The holder of a license granted under the terms of this chapter shall maintain
the premises in and upon which such person’s business operations are conducted
in as sanitary a manner and condition as are reasonable and consistent
therewith, but in no event shall the licensee permit or suffer any condition to
exist which by its nature constitutes a health or safety hazard to surrounding
property or persons.
125.10   COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
The provisions of this chapter in no way relieve the holder of a license issued
under this chapter from compliance with other provisions, rules or regulations
of the City, to which the licensee may be subject, nor shall said person be
relieved from the necessity of procuring such other licenses as may be required
by the City by reason of the nature and extent of the operations of the
licensee.
125.11   PURCHASE FROM MINOR UNLAWFUL.
It is unlawful for any salvage operator, as defined in this chapter, to
purchase any goods or materials or vehicles of any kind or nature whatsoever
from a minor without having secured the written consent of one of the parents
or the legal guardian of the minor.
CHAPTER 126
MASSAGE PARLORS
126.01 Definitions                    126.14 Change Of Location
126.02 Permit Required                126.15 Employees
126.03 Exceptions                     126.16 Inspections
126.04 Application and Fee            126.17 Place of Business
126.05 Contents of Application        126.18 Hours of Operation
126.06 Facilities Necessary           126.19 Name of Business
126.07 Permit Procedures              126.20 Revocation and Suspension
126.08 Inspection of Premises         126.21 Sale Or Transfer
126.09 Issuance of Permit             126.22 Applicability
126.10 Appeal                         126.23 Unlawful Activities
126.11 Permit Not Transferable        126.24 Practice Without Permit Unlawful
126.12 Display of Permit              126.25 Responsibility of Owner
126.13 Validity and Renewal of Permit 126.26 Nuisance Declared
126.01   DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of the provisions regulating bath, sauna baths, massage
establishments and similar businesses set forth in this chapter, the following
words and phrases have the meanings set forth in this section, unless it is
apparent from the context that a different meaning is intended:
1.   “Lewd” means acts of masturbation, homosexuality, sexual intercourse or
physical contact with a person’s clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area,
buttocks or, if the person is female, breast.
2.   “Massage” means a method of procedures upon the external parts of the
body, consisting of rubbing, stroking, kneading or tapping with the hand or any
instrument.
3.   “Massage establishment” means an establishment having a fixed place of
business where any person engages in, conducts or carries on or permits to be
engaged in, conducted or carried on, any business of giving Turkish, Russian,
Swedish, vapor, sweat, electric, salt, or any other kind or character of baths,
where alcohol rub, fomentation, baths, manipulation of the body or similar
procedures are given.
4.   “Massage technician” or “technician” means any person, male or female, who
administers to another person, for any form of consideration, a massage alcohol
rub, fomentation, bath or electric massage procedure, manipulation of the body
or other similar procedure.
126.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry on or to permit to
be engaged in, conducted or carried on, in or upon any premises within the
City, the business of a massage establishment or to render, or permit to be
rendered massage services at a location removed from a massage establishment
within the City in the absence of a permit issued pursuant to the provisions
set forth in this chapter.
126.03   EXCEPTIONS.
The requirements of this chapter shall have no application and no effect upon
and shall not be construed as applying to any persons who are required to be
licensed by the Iowa State Department of Health under Chapters 147 - 158 of the
Code of Iowa. Persons who administer massage in conjunction with and on behalf
of a school athletic department need not secure the permit required in Section
126.02 in order to perform such function for the school athletic department.
126.04   APPLICATION AND FEE.
Any person desiring to obtain a permit to operate a massage establishment shall
make application to the Clerk, who shall refer all such applications to the
Police Chief for an investigation and recommendation. A nonrefundable fee of
$150.00 shall accompany the submission of each application, to defray in part
the costs of investigation and report. Any person desiring to obtain a permit
to perform massage services or to act as a massage technician’s aide shall make
application to the Clerk, who shall refer all such applications to the Police
Chief for an investigation and recommendation. A nonrefundable fee of $35.00
shall accompany the submission of each application, to defray in part the costs
of investigation and report. A permit to perform massage services does not
authorize the operation of a massage establishment. Any person permitted to
perform massage services who desires to operate a massage establishment must
separately apply for a permit therefor.
126.05   CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
Any applicant for a permit shall submit the following information:
1.   The full name and present address of applicant;
2.   The two previous addresses immediately prior to the present address of
applicant, and the dates of residence at each;
3.   Written statements of at least five bona fide adult residents of the City
that the applicant is of good moral character;
4.   Written proof that the applicant is over the age of 18;
5.   Applicant's height, weight, color of eyes, and hair;
6.   Two recent color portrait photographs at least two inches by two inches,
taken within the last six months;
7.   Business, occupation or employment history of the applicant for the three
years immediately preceding the date of the application;
8.   The business license history of the applicant; whether such person, in
previously operating in the City or another city or state under license has had
such license revoked or suspended, the reason therefor, and the business
activity or occupation subsequent to such action of suspension or revocation;
9.   All convictions and the reasons therefor;
10.   A certificate from a medical doctor stating that the applicant has within
30 days immediately prior thereto been examined and found to be free of any
contagious or communicable disease;
11.   Such other identification and information as the Police Department may
require in order to discover the truth of the matters specified as required to
be set forth in the application.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to deny to the Police
Department of the City the right to take the fingerprints and additional
photographs of the applicant, nor shall anything contained in this chapter be
construed to deny the right of the department to confirm the height and weight
of the applicant.
126.06   FACILITIES NECESSARY.
No permit to conduct a massage establishment shall be issued unless an
inspection by the City reveals that the establishment complies with each of the
following minimum requirements:
1.   A recognizable and legible sign shall be posted at the main entrance,
identifying the establishment as a massage establishment.
2.   Minimum lighting shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 146, and in
addition, at least one artificial light of not less than 40 watts shall be
provided in each room or enclosure where massage services are performed on
patrons.
3.   Minimum ventilation shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 146.
4.   Adequate equipment for disinfecting and sterilizing instruments used in
performing the acts of massage shall be provided.
5.   Hot and cold running water shall be provided at all times.
6.   Closed cabinets shall be provided which cabinets shall be utilized for the
storage of clean linen.
7.   In any establishment in which massage services are rendered only to
members of the same sex at any one time, such persons of the same sex may be
placed in a single separate room or the operators of the massage establishment
may elect to place such persons of the same sex in separate enclosed rooms or
booths having adequate ventilation to an area outside the room or booth while
massage services are being performed.
8.   Adequate bathing, dressing, locker, and toilet facilities shall be
provided for patrons. A minimum of one tub or shower, one dressing room
containing a separate locker for each patron to be served, which locker shall
be capable of being locked, and a minimum of one toilet and one wash basin
shall be provided by every massage establishment; provided, however, if male
and female patrons are to be served simultaneously at the establishment, a
separate massage room or rooms, separate dressing facilities and separate
toilet facilities shall be provided for male and female patrons.
9.   All walls, ceiling, floors, pools, showers, bathtubs, steam rooms, and all
other physical facilities for the establishment must be in good repair and
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. Wet and dry heat rooms, steam or
vapor rooms or steam or vapor cabinets, shower compartments, and toilet rooms
shall be thoroughly cleaned each day the business is in operation. Bathtubs
shall be thoroughly cleaned after each use.
10.   Clean and sanitary towels and linens shall be provided for each patron of
the establishment. No common use of towels or linens shall be permitted.
11.   A minimum of one separate wash basin shall be provided in each massage
establishment for the use of employees of any such establishment, which basin
shall provide soap or detergent and hot and cold running water at all times and
shall be located within or as close as practicable to the area devoted to the
performing of massage services. In addition, there shall be provided at each
wash basin sanitary towels placed in permanently installed dispensers.
12.   Proof of compliance with all applicable provisions of this Code of
Ordinances shall be provided.
126.07   PERMIT PROCEDURES.
Any applicant for a permit to operate a massage establishment, pursuant to
these provisions, shall personally appear at the Police Department and produce
proof to the Police Department that the $150.00 application fee has been paid
to the Clerk, and thereupon the applicant shall present to the Police
Department the application containing the information described in Section
126.05. The Police Chief shall have a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days,
within which to investigate the application and the background of the
applicant. Based on such investigation the Police Chief shall render a
recommendation as to the approval or denial of the permit to the Mayor. Any
applicant for a permit to perform massage services or to act as a massage
technician’s aide, pursuant to these provisions, shall personally appear at the
Police Department of the City and produce proof to the Police Department that
the $35.00 application fee has been paid to the Clerk, and thereupon the
applicant shall present to the Police Department the application containing the
information described in Section 126.05. The Police Chief shall have a
reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days, within which to investigate the
application and the background of the applicant. Based on such investigation
the Police Chief or representative shall render a recommendation as to the
approval or denial of the permit to the Mayor.
126.08   INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
The Building Official and the Fire Department shall inspect the premises
proposed to be devoted to the massage establishment and shall make separate
recommendations to the Mayor concerning compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
126.09   ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
The Mayor, after receiving the recommendations of the Building Official and
Fire Department, shall grant a permit to the establishment if all requirements
for a massage establishment described in this chapter are met and shall issue a
permit to all persons who have applied to perform massage services or to act as
aides unless it appears that any such person has deliberately falsified the
application or unless it appears that the record of such person reveals a
conviction of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude.
126.10   APPEAL.
Any person denied a permit pursuant to these provisions by the Mayor may appeal
to the Council in writing within 10 days from the action, stating reasons why
the permit should be granted. The Council may grant or deny the permit and such
decision shall be final upon the applicant. Also, the Council may elect on its
own motion to review any determination of the Mayor granting or denying a
permit. The Council shall hear the appeal not less than seven or more than 21
days following the filing of the appeal.
126.11   PERMIT NOT TRANSFERABLE.
All permits issued under this chapter are nontransferable; provided, however, a
change of location of a massage establishment may be permitted pursuant to the
provisions of Section 126.14.
126.12   DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
Every person to whom or for which a permit has been granted shall display the
permit in a conspicuous place so that the same may be readily seen by persons
entering the premises where the massage, bath, or treatment is given.
126.13   VALIDITY AND RENEWAL OF PERMIT.
A permit shall be valid for a period of one year, unless suspended or revoked
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. The fee for renewal shall be
$100.00.
126.14   CHANGE OF LOCATION.
A change of location of any premises may be approved by the Police Chief and
the Building Official, provided all ordinances and regulations of the City are
complied with and the change of location fee of $50.00 is paid with the City.
126.15   EMPLOYEES.
It is the responsibility of the holder of the permit for the massage
establishment or the employer of any persons purporting to act as massage
technicians to ensure that each person employed as a massage technician shall
first have obtained a valid permit pursuant to this chapter. No registered
massage technician aide may independently practice the acts of massage, but
said person may, as a massage technician aide, assist a technician in the acts
constituting the practice of massage under the immediate personal supervision
and employment of a registered massage technician, but such aide may assist
only while the massage technician is personally present with the patron, and
such aide may not perform massage services. Any massage technician aide shall
comply with the requirements of Section 126.05.
126.16   INSPECTIONS.
The Building Official and Fire Department shall from time to time and at least
twice each year make an inspection of each massage establishment in the City
for the purpose of determining that the provisions of this chapter are complied
with.
126.17   PLACE OF BUSINESS.
A person holding a permit under this chapter may perform the functions of a
massage technician only in a massage establishment for which a permit has been
secured according to the provisions of this chapter. Violations of this
provision shall constitute a simple misdemeanor.
126.18   HOURS OF OPERATION.
A massage establishment shall not be operated between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 9:00 a.m. Violation of this provisions shall constitute a simple
misdemeanor.
126.19   NAME OF BUSINESS.
No person authorized to do business as provided in this chapter shall operate
under any name or conduct business under any designation not specified in the
permit.
126.20   REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION.
No permit shall be revoked until after a hearing has been held before the
Council to determine just cause for such revocation; provided, however, the
Mayor may order any permits suspended pending such hearing, and it is unlawful
for any person to carry on the business of a massage technician or to operate
as a massage establishment depending upon the particular type of permit which
has been suspended until the suspended permit has been reinstated by the
Council. Notice of such hearing shall be given in writing and served at least
five days prior to the date of the hearing thereon. The notice shall state the
grounds of the complaint against the holder of such permit, or against the
business carried on by the permittee at the massage establishment and shall
state the time and place where such hearing will be held. The notice shall be
served upon the permit holder by delivering the same to such person or by
leaving such notice at the place of business or residence of the permit holder
in the custody of a person of suitable age and discretion. In the event the
permit holder cannot be found, and the service of such notice cannot be made in
the manner provided in this section, a copy of such notice shall be mailed,
postage fully prepaid, addressed to the permit holder at the place of business
or residence at least five days prior to the date of such hearing.
126.21   SALE OR TRANSFER.
Upon the sale or transfer of any interest in a massage establishment, the
permit shall be null and void. A new application shall be made by a person
desiring to own or operate the massage establishment. A fee of $5.00 shall be
payable for each such application involving sale or other transfer of any
interest in an existing massage establishment. The provisions of this chapter
shall apply to any person applying for a massage establishment permit for
premises previously used as such establishment. Any such sale or transfer of
any interests in an existing massage establishment or any application for an
extension or expansion of the building or other place of business of the
massage establishment shall require inspection and shall require compliance
with the provisions of this chapter.
126.22   APPLICABILITY.
The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all persons and
businesses described in this chapter whether the described activities were
established before or after June 14, 1976.
126.23   UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES.
It is unlawful for any person to massage any other person or give or administer
any bath or baths in such a manner as to commit a lewd act. Any violation of
this provision shall be deemed grounds for the revocation of the permit granted
under this chapter.
126.24   PRACTICE WITHOUT PERMIT UNLAWFUL.
Every person, except those persons who are specifically exempt by this chapter,
whether acting as an individual, owner, employee of the owner, operator or
employee of the operator or whether acting as a mere helper for the owner,
employee or operator or whether acting as a participant or worker in any way
who gives massages or conducts a massage establishment or room, or who gives or
administers or who practices the giving or administering of steam baths,
electric light baths, electric tub baths, shower baths, sponge baths, vapor
baths, fomentation, sun baths, mineral baths, alcohol rubs, Russian, Swedish,
or Turkish baths, or any other type of baths, salt glows or any type of therapy
or who does or practices any of the other things or acts mentioned in this
chapter without first obtaining a permit to do so from the City or shall
violate any provisions of this chapter is guilty of a simple misdemeanor.
126.25   RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
Any owner, operator, manager or permittee in charge or in control of a massage
establishment who knowingly employs a person performing as a massage technician
as defined in this chapter who is not in possession of a valid permit or who
allows such an employee to perform, operate or practice within such a place of
business is guilty of a simple misdemeanor.
126.26   NUISANCE DECLARED.
Any massage establishment operated, conducted or maintained contrary to the
provisions of this chapter shall be and the same is declared to be unlawful and
a public nuisance and the Attorney may, in addition to or in lieu of
prosecuting a criminal action under this chapter, commence an action or
actions, proceeding or proceedings, for the abatement, removal and enjoinment
thereof, in the manner provided by law; and shall take such other steps and
shall apply to such court or courts as may have jurisdiction to grant such
relief as will abate or remove such massage establishment and restrain and
enjoin any person from operating, conducting or maintaining a massage
establishment contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
CHAPTER 127
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS
127.01 Definitions                 127.10 Right to Hearing; Prompt Judicial
                                   Review; Provisional License
127.02 Classifications             127.11 Transfer of License
127.03 License Required; Temporary 127.12 Hours of Operation
License
                                   127.13 Regulations Regarding the
127.04 Issuance of License         Exhibition of Sexually Explicit Films on
                                   the Premises
127.05 Fees                        127.14 Loitering; Exterior Lighting, and
                                   Monitoring Requirements
127.06 Periodic Inspection         127.15 Applicability to Existing
                                   Businesses
127.07 Expiration of License       127.16 Live Public Nudity on Premises
127.08 Cause for Suspension        127.17 Scienter Requirement to Prove
                                   Violation or Liability
127.09 Cause for Revocation        127.18 Siting Criteria
127.01   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter, the words and phrases defined in the sections
hereunder shall have the meanings therein respectively ascribed to them unless
a different meaning is clearly indicated by the context.
1.   “Adult arcade” means any place to which the public is permitted or invited
wherein coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or
fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
2.   “Adult bookstore,” “adult novelty store,” or “adult video store” means a
commercial establishment that has a significant or substantial portion of its
stock in trade or derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues
or devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display space
to the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of any one or more of the
following:
   A.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or photographs,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or other visual
representations that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas;”
   B.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for use or
marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
The terms “adult bookstore,” “adult novelty store,” or “adult video store” also
include a commercial establishment that regularly maintains one or more “adult
arcades.”
3.   “Adult cabaret” means a nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle
club, or business or entity that is operated with the emphasis on observation
or viewing of nude or semi-nude performances - whether the performers receive
compensation or not and whether or not alcoholic beverages are served - that
regularly feature persons who appear nude or semi-nude.
4.   “Adult motel” means a motel, hotel, or similar commercial establishment
that:
   A.   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, other photographic reproductions, or live
performances that are characterized by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas;” and that
advertises the availability of such material by means of a sign visible from
the public right-of-way, or by means of any on- or off-premises advertising,
including but not limited to newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or leaflets,
radio, or television; or
   B.   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than
10 hours; or
   C.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room for
a period of time that is less than 10 hours.
5.   “Adult motion picture theater” means a commercial establishment in which
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”
are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
6.   “Controlling interest” means the power, directly or indirectly, to direct
the operation, management, or policies of a business or entity, or to vote 20
percent or mar of any class (or combination of multiple classes that aggregate
in amount of 20 percent or greater) of voting shares of a business. The
ownership, control, or power to vote 20 percent or more of any class of voting
shares of a business (or a combination of multiple classes that aggregate in an
amount of 20 percent or greater) shall be presumed, subject to rebuttal, to be
the power to direct the management, operation or policies of the business.
7.   “Distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on” means the dominant or
principal theme of the object described by such phrase. For instance, when the
phase refers to films that are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
upon the exhibition or description of “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas,” the films so described are those whose dominant
or principal character and theme are the exhibition or description of
“specified anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities.” Similarly, when
the phrase refers to a performance that is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis upon the exhibition or showing of “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas,” the performance so described is one whose
dominant or principal character and theme are the exhibition or showing of
“specified anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities.”
8.   “Employ,” “employee,” and “employment” describe and pertain to any person
who performs any service on the premises of a sexually oriented business, on a
full­ time, part-time, or contract basis, whether or not the person is
denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent, or otherwise.
“Employee” does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
9.   “Establish” or “establishment” means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a new
business.
   B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business; or
   C.   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other existing
sexually oriented business.
10.   “Licensee” means a person in whose name a license to operate a sexually
oriented business has been issued, as well as the individual or individuals
listed on an application for a sexually oriented business license. In case of
an “employee,” it means the person in whose name the sexually oriented business
employee license has been issued.
11·   “Nudity” or “state of nudity” means the showing of the human male or
female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less
than a fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female breast with less
than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple and areola.
12.   “Operate” or “cause to operate” means to cause to function or to put or
keep in a state of doing business. “Operator” means any person on the premises
of a sexually oriented business who is authorized to exercise overall
operational control of the business or who causes to function or who puts or
keeps in operation the business. A person may be found to be operating or
causing to operate a sexually oriented business whether or not that person is
an owner, part owner or licensee of the business.
13.   “Regularly features” or “regularly shows” means a consistent or
substantial course of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited
constitute a substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part
of the ongoing business of the sexually oriented business.
14.   “Semi-nude” or “state of semi-nudity” means a state of dress in which
opaque clothing covers no more than the genitals, anus, anal cleft, cleavage,
pubic area, vulva, as well as the nipple and areola of the female breast, as
well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or devices. This
definition does not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female
breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other
wearing apparel provided that the areola and nipple are not exposed in whole or
in part.
15.   “Semi-nude model studio” means any place in which a person regularly
appears in a state of semi-nudity and is provided money or any other form of
consideration to be so observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculpted,
photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons. It is a defense to
prosecution for any violation of this chapter that a person appearing in a
state of semi-nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   A.   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
   B.   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   C.   In a structure:
      (1)   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a semi-nude person is available for viewing;
and
      (2)   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class.
16.   “Sexually oriented entertainment activity” means the sale, rental, or
exhibition, for any form of consideration, of books, films, videocassettes,
magazines, periodicals, or live performances that are characterized by any
emphasis on the exposure or display of “specific sexual activity” or “specific
anatomical areas.”
17.   “Specified anatomical areas” means human genitals, pubic region, anus,
cleft of the buttock or the nipple or areola of the female breast.
18.   “Specified criminal activity” means any of the following offenses:
   A.   Dissemination and exhibition of obscene materials to minors, as defined
by Section 728.2 of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   Admitting minors to premises where obscene matter is exhibited as
defined by Section 728.3 of the Code of Iowa.
   C.   Rental of sale or sale of hard-core pornography as defined by Section
728.4 of the Code of Iowa. 
   D.   Public indecent exposure in certain establishments as defined by
Section 728.5 of the Code of Iowa.
   E.   Sexual exploitation of a minor as defined by Section 728.12 of the Code
of Iowa.
   F.   Sexual abuse as defined by Section 709.2-4 of the Code of Iowa.
   G.   Lascivious acts with a child as defined by Section 709.8 of the Code of
Iowa.
   H.   Indecent exposure as defined by Section 709.9 of the Code of Iowa.
   I.   Contact a minor as defined by Section 709.12 of the Code of Iowa.
   J.   Extortion as defined by Section 711.4 of the Code of Iowa.
   K.   Prostitution, pimping, pandering, or leasing premises for prostitution
as defined by Section 725.1-4 of the Code of Iowa.
   L.   Criminal attempt.
   M.   Conspiracy or solicitation to commit any of the preceding offenses or
offenses in other jurisdictions that, if the acts would have constituted any of
the preceding offenses if the acts had been committed in the State, for which:
      (1)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense; or
      (2)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later
date if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
      (3)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall not affect the
disqualification of the applicant.
19.   “Specified sexual activity” means any of the following:
   A.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, including intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation or sodomy; or
   B.   Fondling, caressing, or other erotic touching either by the individual
or anyone else of the “specific anatomical areas” specified herein; or
   C.   Exposure of the “specific anatomical areas;” or
   D.   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in Paragraphs A, B, or C above.
20.   “Transfer of ownership or control” (of a sexually oriented business)
means any of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease, or sub-lease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of shares that constitute a controlling interest in the
business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device that
transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control.
21.   “Video room” means the room, booth, or area where a patron of sexually
oriented business would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film,
videocassette, or other video reproduction.
127.02   CLASSIFICATIONS.
Sexually oriented businesses shall be classified as follows:
1.   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores, adult video stores;
2.   Adult cabarets;
3.   Adult motels;
4.   Adult motion picture theaters;
5.   Semi-nude model studios.
127.03   LICENSE REQUIRED; TEMPORARY LICENSE.
1.   It is unlawful for any person to operate a sexually oriented business in
the City without a valid sexually oriented business license.
2.   It is unlawful for any person to be an “employee,” as defined in this
chapter, of a sexually oriented business in the City without a valid sexually
oriented business employee license.
3.   An applicant for a sexually oriented business license or a sexually
oriented business employee license shall file in person at the office of the
Building Official a completed application made on a form provided by the
Building Official. The application shall be signed by the applicant and
notarized. An application shall be considered complete when it contains the
information required in Paragraphs A through F as follows:
   A.   The applicant’s full true name and any other names used in the
preceding five years.
   B.   Current business address or another mailing address of the applicant.
   C.   Written proof of age, in the form of a copy of a birth certificate and
a picture identification document issued by a governmental agency.
   D.   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
business name, location, legal description, mailing address, and phone number
of the sexually oriented business.
   E.   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
name and business address of the statutory agent or other agent authorized to
receive service of process.
   F.   A statement of whether the applicant has been convicted or has pled
guilty or nolo contendere to any “specified criminal activity” as defined in
this chapter, and if so, the specific criminal activity involved, including the
date, place and jurisdiction of each, as well as the dates of conviction and
release from confinement, where applicable.
The information provided pursuant to Paragraphs A through F of this subsection
shall be supplemented in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested,
to the Building Official within 10 working days of a change of circumstances
that would render the information originally submitted false, incomplete or
reasonably misleading.
4.   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared but shall be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. Applicants who are
required to comply with Sections 127.14 and 127.17 shall submit a diagram
meeting the requirements of those sections.
5.   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, such person shall sign the application for a license as applicant.
If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each officer, director, general partner, each other person who will
manage, supervise, or control the premises, and each other person who will
participate in decisions relating to management and control of the business
shall sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under Section 127.05 and each applicant shall be considered a
licensee if a license is granted.
6.   The information provided by an applicant in connection with an application
for a license under this chapter shall be maintained by the Building Official
on a confidential basis, except that such information may be disclosed to law
enforcement agencies in connection with a law enforcement or public safety
function, or as may be required by governing law or court order.
127.04   ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
1.   Upon the filing of a completed application under Section 127.04(3) for a
sexually oriented business license, the Building Official shall immediately
issue a temporary license to the applicant, which temporary license shall
expire upon the final decision of the City to deny or grant the license. Within
20 days of the initial filing date of the completed application, the Building
Official shall issue a license to the applicant or issue to the applicant a
letter of intent to deny the application. The Building Official shall approve
the issuance of a license unless:
   A.   An applicant is less than 18 years of age.
   B.   An applicant has failed to provide information as required by Section
127.04 for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form.
   C.   The license application fee required by Section 127.06 has not been
paid.
   D.   An applicant has been found guilty of a violation of Section 127.07(1),
Section 127.10(2), 127.17(2) or 127.17(3) of this chapter within the previous
year.
   E.   The sexually oriented business premises is not in compliance with the
interior configuration requirements of this chapter or is not in compliance
with locational requirements established in this chapter and the applicable
Zoning Code provisions.
   F.   An applicant has been convicted of a “specified criminal activity,” as
defined in this chapter.
2.   Upon the filing of a completed application for a sexually oriented
business employee license, the Building Official shall issue a temporary
license to the applicant, which temporary license shall expire upon the final
decision of the City to deny or grant the license. Within 20 days of the
initial filing date of the receipt of a completed application, the Building
Official shall either issue a license or issue a written notice of intent to
deny a license to the applicant. The Building Official shall approve the
issuance of a license unless one or more of the following is found to be true.
   A.   An applicant is less than 18 years of age.
   B.   An applicant has failed to provide information required by Section
127.04 for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form.
   C.   The license application fee required by Section 127.06 has not been
paid.
   D.   An applicant has been shown to have committed a violation of Section
127.07(1), Section 127.10(2), or Section 127.17(1), (1-3) of this chapter
within the previous year.
   E.   An applicant has been convicted of a “specified criminal activity” as
defined in this chapter.
3.   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the person to
whom it is granted, the number of the license issued to the licensee, the
expiration date, and, if the license is for a sexually oriented business, the
address of the sexually oriented business. The sexually oriented business
license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the
sexually oriented business so that it may be easily read at any time. A
sexually oriented business employee shall keep the employee’s license on his or
her person or on the premises where the licensee is then working or performing
and shall produce such license for inspection upon request by a law enforcement
officer or other City official performing functions connected with the
enforcement of this chapter.
127.05   FEES.
A filing fee in accordance with the following fee schedule shall be charged for
each application for initial license and annual renewals to assist in deferring
the cost of the administrative review. The applicant shall be held responsible
for submitting the required fees upon submission of the completed application.
No action shall be taken on any application until the required fee is paid in
full. The fee schedule is as follows:
1.   Sexually Oriented Business License, Initial License   $300.00
2.   Sexually Oriented Business License, Annual Renewal   $300.00
3.   Sexually Oriented Business Employee’s License,
   Initial License   $100.00
4.   Sexually Oriented Business Employee’s License,
   Annual Renewal   $100.00
Whether the request is granted or denied, the applicant shall not be entitled
to a refund of the fee paid.
127.06   PERIODIC INSPECTION.
1.   Sexually oriented businesses and sexually oriented business employees
shall permit agents of the City to inspect from time to time on an occasional
basis the portions of the sexually oriented business premises where patrons are
permitted, for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the specific regulations
of this chapter, during those times when the sexually oriented business is
occupied by patrons or is open for business. A licensee’s knowing or
intentional refusal to permit such an inspection shall constitute a violation
of this section for purposes of license denial, suspension or revocation. This
section shall be narrowly construed by the City to authorize reasonable
inspections of the licensed premises pursuant to this chapter, but not to
authorize a harassing or excessive pattern of inspections.
2.   The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an adult motel
that are currently being rented by a customer for use as a permanent or
temporary habitation (of a duration of longer than 10 consecutive hours).
127.07   EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
1.   Each license shall remain valid for a period of one calendar year from the
date of issuance unless otherwise suspended or revoked. Such license may be
renewed only by making application and payment of a fee as provided in Section
127.04 and Section 127.06.
2.   Application for renewal should be made at least 90 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 90 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the license will not be affected.
127.08   CAUSE FOR SUSPENSION.
1.   The City shall issue a written letter of intent to suspend a sexually
oriented business license for a period not to exceed 30 days if the sexually
oriented business licensee has violated this chapter or has knowingly allowed
an employee to violate this chapter.
2.   The City shall issue a written letter of intent to suspend a sexually
oriented business employee license it the employee has violated this chapter.
127.09   CAUSE FOR REVOCATION.
1.   The City shall issue a letter of intent to revoke a sexually oriented
business license or a sexually oriented business employee license if the
respective licensee commits two or more violations within a 12-month period.
2.   The City shall issue written intent to revoke a sexually oriented business
license or a sexually oriented business employee license if:
   A.   The licensee has knowingly given false information in the application
for a sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented business
employee license.
   B.   The licensee has knowingly allowed or engaged in possession, use, or
sale of controlled substances on the premises.
   C.   The licensee has knowingly allowed or engaged in prostitution on the
premises.
   D.   The licensee knowingly operated the sexually oriented business during a
period of time when the license was suspended.
   E.   The licensee has knowingly allowed or engaged in any specified sexual
activity in or on the licensed premises.
   F.   The licensee has knowingly allowed or engaged in behavior that
negatively affects the health, safety or welfare of the residents of the City
or otherwise in violation of this chapter.
3.   A business licensee shall be liable for the acts of an employee only
pursuant to the standard established in Section 127.18.
4.   When, after the notice and hearing procedure described in Section 127.11,
the Building Official revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for two
years and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license
or sexually oriented business employee license for two years from the date
revocation becomes effective, provided that, if the conditions of Section
127.11(3) are met, a provisional license will be granted pursuant to that
section. If, subsequent to, revocation the Building Official finds that the
basis for the revocation based on Paragraph A of Subsection 2 has been
corrected or abated, the applicant shall be granted a license if at least 90
days have elapsed since the date the revocation became effective. If the
license was revoked under Paragraphs B, C, D, or E of Subsection 2 of this
section, an applicant may not be granted another license until at least two
years have elapsed.
127.10   RIGHT TO HEARING; PROMPT JUDICIAL REVIEW; PROVISIONAL LICENSE.
1.   If facts exist that warrant the denial, suspension or revocation of a
license under this chapter, the Building Official shall notify the applicant or
licensee (respondent) in writing of the intent to deny, suspend or revoke the
license, including the grounds thereof, by personal delivery or by certified
mail. The notification shall be directed to the most current business address
or other mailing address on file with the Building Official for the respondent.
Within 10 working days of the receipt of such notice, the respondent may submit
a request to the Building Official for a hearing before the Council to refute
the grounds alleged by the City for denial, suspension or revocation of the
license.
2.   Within five days of the receipt of respondent’s written response, the
Building Official shall notify respondent in writing of the hearing date on
respondent’s denial, suspension or revocation proceeding. Such hearing date
must be held within 20 working days of the receipt of respondent’s written
response. The Council shall conduct said hearing, at which respondent shall
have the opportunity to present respondent’s arguments, be represented by
counsel if desired (at the respondent’s own expense), present evidence and
witnesses on his or her behalf, and cross examine any of the City’s witnesses.
The Building Official shall be represented by counsel and shall bear the burden
of proving the grounds for denying, suspending or revoking the license. The
hearing shall take no longer than two days, unless extended to meet the
requirements of due process and the proper administration of justice. The
Council shall issue a written decision within five business days after the
hearing. If the decision is to deny, suspend or revoke the license, it shall
state the reasons for such action, and the denial, suspension or revocation
shall become final for purposes of appeal immediately, but shall not take
effect or be enforced until 30 days thereafter. If the decision is to grant the
license, the City shall immediately issue a license to the respondent.
3.   An applicant or licensee (aggrieved party) whose application for a license
has been denied or whose license has been suspended or revoked shall have the
right to challenge or appeal such action or seek a declaration of rights
concerning such action concerning this chapter. Upon factual grounds or
constitutional grounds or both, to a court of law within 30 days after issuance
of the Council’s written decision. Upon the filing of any court action to
appeal, challenge, restrain or otherwise enjoin or seek a declaration of rights
concerning this chapter or the City’s denial, suspension or revocation of a
license issued pursuant to this chapter, the City shall immediately issue the
aggrieved party a provisional license. The City shall supply the court with any
documents, reports or transcripts relevant to the lawsuit within 15 days after
receiving notice of the lawsuit. The provisional license shall allow the
aggrieved party to operate or continue operation of the sexually oriented
business or to be employed or continue employment as a sexually oriented
business employee, and will expire only upon the court’s entry of a judgment on
the merits of the aggrieved party’s action to appeal, challenge, restrain or
otherwise enjoin or seek a declaration of rights concerning this chapter or the
City’s denial, suspension or revocation of a license under this chapter.
4.   If, in the alternative, the aggrieved party does not wish to bear the
burden of initiating a court action, such person may, within 30 days after the
Council’s written decision is issued, elect to require the City to file a
declaratory action in a court of competent jurisdiction, seeking a declaration
that the denial, suspension or revocation is valid and that this chapter is
constitutionally sound. Such an election must be made in writing and be
delivered to the Attorney’s Office within 30 days of issuance of the Council’s
written decision. Upon the delivery of the election notice to the Attorney’s
Office, the City shall immediately issue the aggrieved party a provisional
license. The provisional license shall allow the aggrieved party to operate or
continue operation of the sexually oriented business or to be employed or
continue employment as a sexually oriented business employee and will expire
only upon the court’s entry of a judgment on the merits of the validity of this
chapter and the City’s denial, suspension or revocation decision.
5.   This section shall be liberally construed to permit the uninterrupted
operation of the sexually oriented business or the uninterrupted employment of
the sexually oriented business employee under the terms and conditions of this
chapter during the course of any court action challenging this chapter or an
adverse licensing decision under this chapter until the court of law rules upon
all of the aggrieved party’s factual or constitutional claims.
127.11   TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the sexually oriented
business license application.
127.12   HOURS OF OPERATION.
No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, shall be or remain
open for business between 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on a weekday, or between 2:00
a.m. on Sunday and 6:00 a.m. on the following Monday; however, a sexually
oriented business that holds a liquor license or retail beer permit entitling
the holder to sell alcoholic liquor or beer on Sunday may remain open between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on the following Monday.
127.13   REGULATIONS REGARDING THE EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS ON THE
PREMISES.
1.   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, that exhibits on the premises in a viewing
room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette or
other video characterized by an emphasis and the display of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas” shall comply with the requirements
contained in Section 127.04 of this chapter.
2.   It is unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to knowingly
fail to fulfill that duty.
127.14   LOITERING; EXTERIOR LIGHTING, AND MONITORING REQUIREMENTS.
It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually oriented business to:
1.   Post conspicuous signs stating that no loitering is permitted on such
property;
2.   Designate one or more employees to monitor the activities of persons on
such property by visually inspecting such property at least once every two
hours or inspecting such property by use of video cameras and monitors; and
3.   Provide lighting of the exterior premises to provide for visual inspection
or video monitoring to prohibit loitering. If used, video cameras and monitors
shall operate continuously at all times that the premises is open for business.
The monitors shall be installed within a manager’s station or at a cash
register where an employee is regularly present. It is unlawful for a person
having a duty under this section to knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
127.15   APPLICABILITY TO EXISTING BUSINESSES.
The provisions of this chapter apply to the activities of all sexually oriented
businesses and sexually oriented business employees described herein, whether
such businesses or activities were established or commenced before, on, or
after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
127.16   LIVE PUBLIC NUDITY ON PREMISES.
1.   It is a violation of this chapter for a licensee required to obtain a
sales tax permit to knowingly or intentionally violate Section 728.5 of the
Code of Iowa. It is a violation for any person to knowingly or intentionally,
in a sexually oriented business, appear in a state of nudity.
2.   It is a violation of this chapter for any employee to knowingly and
intentionally appear semi-nude in a sexually oriented business unless the
employee, while semi-nude, is at least six feet from any patron or customer and
on a stage at least two feet from the floor.
3.   It is a violation of this chapter for an employee, while semi-nude in a
sexually oriented business, to knowingly or intentionally receive any pay or
gratuity directly from any patron or customer or for any patron or customer to
knowingly or intentionally pay or give any gratuity directly to any employee,
while said employee is semi-nude in a sexually oriented business.
4.   It is a violation of this chapter for an employee, while semi-nude in a
sexually oriented business, to knowingly or intentionally touch a customer or
the clothing of a customer or for a customer to knowingly and intentionally
touch an employee or the clothing of an employee, while said employee is semi-
nude in a sexually oriented business.
5.   A sign in a form to be prescribed by the Building Official and summarizing
the provisions of Subsections 1 through 4 of this section shall be posted near
the entrance of the sexually oriented business in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to patrons upon entry into the inside of the building.
127.17   SCIENTER REQUIREMENT TO PROVE VIOLATION OR LIABILITY.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter, an
act by an employee that constitutes grounds for suspension or revocation of
that employee’s license shall be imputed to the sexually oriented business
licensee for purposes of finding a violation of this chapter, or for purposes
of license denial, suspension, or revocation, only if an officer, director, or
general partner, or a person who managed, supervised, or controlled the
business premises, knew or reasonably should have known that such act was
occurring and failed to prevent such act. It shall be a defense to liability
under this chapter that the person to whom the violation is imputed was
powerless to prevent the act.
127.18   SITING CRITERIA.
1.   A person commits a violation of this chapter if that person operates or
causes to be operated a sexually oriented business in any zoning district other
than defined and described in the Unified Land Development Code.
2.   A person commits an offense if the person operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business within 2,000 feet of:
   A.   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building that is used primarily
for religious worship and related religious activities.
   B.   A public or private educational facility, including child day care
facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens, elementary schools,
private schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools, middle schools,
high schools, vocational schools, secondary schools, continuation schools,
special education schools, junior colleges, and universities; (“school”
includes any school grounds, but does not include facilities used primarily for
another purpose and only incidentally as a school);
   C.   A public park, public playground, public plaza or cemetery; or
   D.   Another sexually oriented business.
3.   A person commits an offense if the person operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business within 500 feet of a residential “R”
district, as defined in the Unified Land Development Code.
4.   For the purpose of Subsection 2 of this section, measurement shall be made
in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from
the nearest property line of the premises where a sexually oriented business is
conducted to the nearest property line of the premises of a use listed in such
subsection. The presence of a County, City or other political subdivision
boundary shall be irrelevant for purposes of calculating and applying the
distance requirements of this section.
5.   For purpose of Paragraph D of Subsection 2 of this section, the distance
between any two sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight
line, without regard to the intervening structures or objects or political
boundaries, from the closest exterior wall of the structure in which each
business is located.
6.   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on the effective date of
the ordinance codified in this chapter† 8  that is in violation of Subsections
1 through 4 of this section shall be deemed a nonconforming use. The
nonconforming use will be permitted to continue for a period not to exceed one
year from the date of enactment of this chapter, unless sooner terminated for
any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30 days or more. Such
nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended or altered except
that the use may be changed to a conforming use. If two or more sexually
oriented businesses are within 2,000 feet of one another and otherwise in a
permissible location, the sexually oriented business that was first established
and continually operating at a particular location is the conforming use and
the later established business is nonconforming.
7.   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is not
rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the sexually oriented business license, of a use listed in
Subsection 2 of this section within 2,000 feet of the sexually oriented
business. This provision applies only to the renewal of a valid license and
does not apply when an application is made for a license after the applicant’s
previous license has expired or been revoked.
 
Notes
8 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Chapter 127 was originally adopted by Ordinance No. 563 on
  December 27, 2004.
CHAPTER 128
PUBLIC DANCES
 
128.01 Compliance Required    128.07 Display Of License
128.02 License Required       128.08 Standards For Dance Premises
128.03 License Application    128.09 Description of Premises
128.04 License Fee            128.10 Disorderly Conduct
128.05 Restrictions           128.11 Hours of Operation
128.06 License Not Assignable 128.12 Suspension or Revocation of License
128.01   COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
Any dance held within the City to which the public may gain admission, with or
without payment of a fee, shall be subject to supervision and regulation as
required by this chapter.
128.02   LICENSE REQUIRED.
No person shall conduct, host, organize or sponsor a dance open to the public
without first obtaining a license as provided in this chapter. This chapter,
however, shall not be deemed to apply to dance clubs with a specific membership
or to persons conducting dance classes.
128.03   LICENSE APPLICATION.
All applicants for a public dance license shall apply in writing to the Clerk.
The Clerk shall forward the application to the appropriate departments for
inspections. All applications shall be made in the name of the owner of the
business, whether an individual, a partnership, or a corporation, and shall
contain the following:
1.   The full name, residence address, business address, date of birth and
social security number of the applicant, and when the applicant is a
partnership or corporation, of the partners and officers.
2.   If the applicant is a corporation, the name of the corporation shall be
set forth exactly as shown in its articles of incorporation, together with the
names and residence addresses of each of the officers, directors and each
stockholder holding more than 10 percent of the stock of the corporation. If
the applicant is a partnership, the application shall set forth the name and
the residence address of each of the partners, including limited partners. If
one or more of the partners is a corporation, the subsections of this section
pertaining to a corporate application apply.
3.   The name and address of the owner of the building where such dance will be
located.
Upon receipt of departmental inspections and if the Clerk finds that the
applicant has fully complied with all requirements of this chapter and all
applicable ordinances and codes regulating fire, buildings, health and zoning,
and that the applicant is of good moral character, the Clerk shall approve the
application and shall authorize the issuance of a license to conduct public
dances.
128.04   LICENSE FEE.
A license fee of $50.00 per dance shall be collected prior to the issuance of a
license, to all for-profit businesses.
128.05   RESTRICTIONS.
Every annual or occasional license authorized under this chapter shall be
limited to a single property or place designated in the license. No dance shall
be held by the licensee at any place other than so designated. For the purpose
of this chapter, a single property or place shall include the dance room, check
room, lounge or other room constituting a suite in connection therewith.
128.06   LICENSE NOT ASSIGNABLE.
The licenses granted under this chapter shall be personal to the licensee and
shall not be assignable.
128.07   DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
No public dance shall be conducted unless the license required therefor is
conspicuously displayed on the walls of the place designated therein so that
all persons visiting the premises may readily see it.
128.08   STANDARDS FOR DANCE PREMISES.
1.   The premises for any public dance shall provide for actual dancing a floor
space of at least 100 square feet. The room where dancing is conducted shall be
illuminated to a minimum of two foot-candles, as measured by a photometer at a
plane 30 inches above the floor, at any point in the room. Such building or
structure shall also be equipped with two exits that will furnish ample
protection in case of fire, and all materials used for interior decoration
shall be fire resistant or so chemically treated as to be fire resistant.
2.   The premises of a beer or wine permit holder or liquor license holder,
where public dancing is permitted, shall be subject to other structural
requirements as may be required by the provisions of this Code of Ordinances† 9
or State law.
 
Notes
9 † EDITOR’S NOTE: See Section 120.08 for additional regulations for dances on
  premises where Alcoholic Beverages are sold.
128.09   DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
The premises used for a public dance shall be described in the license by
street name and number or other definite description.
128.10   DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
No dance licensee or employee or agent thereof shall permit such licensed
premises to become disorderly. The term “disorderly” as used in this section
shall have the meaning contained in Section 40.03 of this Code of Ordinances.
128.11   HOURS OF OPERATION.
No person shall permit any public dance to remain open or permit any public
dancing between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday,
and between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on Sunday.
128.12   SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
Any license issued pursuant to this chapter may be suspended or revoked for
violations of this chapter or any other chapter of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 129
INTRUSION ALARMS
 
129.01 Definitions                  129.06 Term of Permit and Renewal
129.02 Alarm System Requirements    129.07 Inspection of Alarm System
Generally
129.03 Permits Required             129.08 False Alarm Fees
129.04 Applications; Fee For Permit 129.09 Suspension of Permits
129.05 Issuance of Permit           129.10 Reinstatement After Suspension
129.01   DEFINITIONS.
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1.   “Agent” means a natural person who is designated by the principal to be
responsible for premises protected by an alarm system during the principal’s
absence or unavailability.
2.   “Alarm business” means the business of any person selling, monitoring,
leasing, maintaining, servicing, repairing, altering, replacing, moving or
installing any alarm system or causing to be sold, leased, maintained,
serviced, repaired, altered, replaced, moved or installed any alarm in or on
any building, structure or facility.
3.   “Alarm system” means any assembly of equipment, mechanical or electrical,
arranged to designate the occurrence of an entry or attempted entry into the
area protected by the system, resulting in a signal to which the police would
be expected to respond.
4.   “Alarm user” means the person in control of any building, structure or
facility who purchases, leases, contracts for or otherwise obtains an alarm
system and thereafter contracts with or hires an alarm business to monitor or
service the alarm device.
5.   “Annunciator” means that part of an alarm system which communicates the
fact that the system has been triggered.
6.   “False alarm” means an alarm signal eliciting an urgent response by police
when a situation requiring an urgent response does not, in fact, exist, but
does not include an alarm signal caused by violent conditions of nature or
other extraordinary circumstances not reasonably subject to control by the
alarm business or alarm user. The burden of proving that such alarm was not a
false alarm shall be on the alarm business or alarm user.
7.   “Local alarm system” means an alarm system which, when activated, causes
an audible or visual signaling device to be activated and is intended to be
seen or heard by others outside of the protected premises.
8.   “Permit term” means a 12-month period beginning on the date of issuance of
the alarm permit and ending 12 calendar months thereafter.
9.   “Principal” means the person whose premises are protected by an alarm
system. In the event that a building having more than one tenant is protected
by a single alarm system, the term “principal” means the building owner.
129.02   ALARM SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY.
1.   No alarm system shall be installed, used or maintained in violation of any
of the requirements of this chapter.
2.   The holder of an alarm system permit shall be responsible for training and
retraining all employees, family members and other persons who may make regular
use of the protected premises and who may, in the normal course of their
activities, be in a position to accidentally trigger a sensor. Such training
shall include procedures and practices to avoid accidental alarms and steps to
follow in the event the system is accidentally triggered.
3.   The holder of an alarm system permit shall be responsible, at all times,
for the proper maintenance and repair of the system and for the repair or
replacement of any component, method of installment, design feature or like
condition which may give rise to a false alarm.
4.   Each alarm system shall be so programmed that each audible annunciator
will automatically silence within 15 minutes after being activated and will not
sound again unless a new act or circumstance triggers a sensor.
5.   No test of an alarm system incorporating an audible annunciator shall be
conducted between the hours of 8:00 p.m. of any day and 7:00 a.m. of the
following day.
6.   The application for an alarm system permit shall list the name and phone
number of three agents having access to the premises who may be notified and
assist the police in the event the alarm is activated.
129.03   PERMITS REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person to use or operate any alarm system without a
current, valid permit therefor.
129.04   APPLICATIONS; FEE FOR PERMIT.
1.   Each application for an alarm system permit or renewal shall be made on a
form prescribed by the Clerk and shall contain the following information:
   A.   The name, address, and telephone number of the principal of the
protected premises.
   B.   The type of premises (home, office, variety store, etc.) and any
business name by which the premises is known.
   C.   The address of the protected premises, including if it is in a
residential, commercial, or industrial complex (office building, apartment
house, shopping center, etc.), and any name by which the complex is commonly
known.
   D.   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers, including home phone
numbers, of three agents.
2.   The fee for the permit shall be as established by resolution of the
Council.
129.05   ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
Upon receipt by the Clerk of the permit application and fee, the Police Chief
or an individual designated by the Police Chief shall undertake whatever
investigation deemed necessary with respect to the permit. If it appears to the
Police Chief that the proposed system will comply with the provisions of this
chapter, the Clerk shall issue to the applicant a permit setting forth the
expiration date of the permit. The City shall not, by the issuance of any alarm
system permit, be obligated to respond or accord any priority to an alarm from
such system.
129.06   TERM OF PERMIT AND RENEWAL.
1.   Alarm system permits shall be for a one-year period from and after the
date of their issuance; permits may be renewed for a consecutive additional
permit term in the same manner as original permits were obtained.
2.   An alarm system permit shall automatically terminate upon any change of
principal or protected premises. No permit shall be transferred to another
principal or protected premises. No refunds will be given on termination or
suspension of any permit for any reason.
3.   Renewal permits shall be dated on the date of issue.
129.07   INSPECTION OF ALARM SYSTEM.
Prior to issuing an alarm system permit, and at any time thereafter during the
term thereof, the Police Chief may inspect any alarm system for which a permit
is required.
129.08   FALSE ALARM FEES.
As a condition of any alarm system permit issued under the provisions of this
chapter, the permittee shall pay to the City within 30 days of invoice for any
false alarm generated by the permittee’s alarm system a fee in an amount
established by resolution of the Council.
129.09   SUSPENSION OF PERMITS.
The following shall be grounds for suspension by the Police Chief of any permit
issued pursuant to this chapter.
1.   Any false or incomplete statement made on the permit application;
2.   Failure to pay a false alarm fee within the time required by Section
129.08;
3.   Installation or use of any alarm system in violation of any requirement of
this chapter;
4.   Failure to provide current information as required in this chapter.
If the Police Chief determines that there is cause for the suspension of a
permit, the Police Chief shall mail a notice of suspension to the principal,
stating that the suspension will be effective 15 days after the date of
mailing.
129.10   REINSTATEMENT AFTER SUSPENSION.
Except as otherwise provided herein, a principal whose alarm system permit has
been suspended may have a permit reinstated upon payment of a reinstatement fee
in an amount established by resolution of the Council.
CHAPTER 135
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE
135.01 Removal of Warning Devices 135.09 Excavations
135.02 Obstructing or Defacing    135.10 Property Owner’s Responsibility for
                                  Maintenance
135.03 Placing Debris On          135.11 Failure to Maintain
135.04 Playing In                 135.12 Dumping of Snow
135.05 Traveling On Barricaded    135.13 Driveway Culverts
Street or Alley
135.06 Use for Business Purposes  135.14 Maintenance of Parking or Terrace
135.07 Washing Vehicles           135.15 Failure to Maintain Parking or
                                  Terrace
135.08 Burning Prohibited
135.01   REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.
It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy, or carry
away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard, or other article or
things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected or placed thereupon for
the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places in said street
or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.02   OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.
It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface or injure any street or alley
in any manner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.03   PLACING DEBRIS ON.
It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or alley any
glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter,
offal, leaves, grass, or any other debris likely to be washed into the storm
sewer and clog the storm sewer, or any substance likely to injure any person,
animal, or vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)
135.04   PLAYING IN.
It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled, or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.05   TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.
It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street or
alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed thereon
by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer, or member
of the Fire Department.
135.06   USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
It is unlawful to park, store or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale, or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Police Chief.
135.07   WASHING VEHICLES.
It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street, or alley for
the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or any
vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business. This does
not prevent any person from washing or cleaning his or her own vehicle or
equipment when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.
135.08   BURNING PROHIBITED.
No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or other combustible material
in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.
135.09   EXCAVATIONS.
No person shall dig, excavate, or in any manner disturb any street, parking, or
alley except in accordance with the following:
1.   Permit Required. No excavation shall be commenced without first obtaining
a permit. A written application for such permit shall be filed with the City
and shall contain the following:
   A.   An exact description of the property, by lot and street number, in
front of or along which it is desired to excavate;
   B.   A statement of the purpose, for whom and by whom the excavation is to
be made;
   C.   The person responsible for the refilling of said excavation and
restoration of the street or alley surface; and
   D.   Date of commencement of the work and estimated completion date. Work
shall be started within one week after the date of issuance of the permit.
   E.   If an emergency arises in which it becomes necessary to make an
immediate excavation in order to that the public safety be preserved, then, in
that event, it shall not be necessary to secure a permit prior to making the
excavation; provided, however, the permit shall be secured immediately upon
termination of the emergency.
2.   Public Convenience. Streets and alleys shall be opened in the manner that
will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the uninterrupted
passage of water along the gutter on the street. On main thoroughfares there
shall at all times be sufficient traffic lanes open to permit a substantially
normal traffic flow. Unless this can be accomplished, the work shall be
performed only between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. or between midnight
and 7:00 a.m. In the event the work is of an emergency nature, the Maintenance
Department Supervisor may authorize the work done other hours and may request
assistance from the Police Department to direct traffic.
3.   Barricades, Fencing, and Lighting. Adequate barricades, fencing, and
warning lights meeting standards specified by the City shall be so placed as to
protect the public from hazard. Any costs incurred by the City in providing or
maintaining adequate barricades, fencing, or warning lights shall be paid to
the City by the permit holder/property owner.
4.   Bond Required. The applicant shall post with the City a penal bond in the
minimum sum of $10,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue such
bonds in the State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for any
damage done to the City or to public property, and payment of all costs
incurred by the City in the course of administration of this section. In lieu
of a surety bond, a cash deposit of $1,000.00 may be filed with the City.
5.   Insurance Required. Each applicant shall also file a certificate of
insurance indicating that the applicant is carrying public liability insurance
in effect for the duration of the permit covering the applicant and all agents
and employees for the following minimum amounts:
   A.   Bodily Injury - $300,000.00 per person; $500,000.00 per accident.
   B.   Property Damage - $50,000.00 per accident.
6.   Restoration of Public Property. Streets, sidewalks, alleys, and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to the
condition of the property prior to the commencement of the work, or in a manner
satisfactory to the City, at the expense of the permit holder or property
owner.
7.   Inspection. All work shall be subject to inspection by the City. Backfill
shall not be deemed completed, and no resurfacing of any improved street or
alley surface shall begin, until such backfill is inspected and approved by the
City. The permit holder/property owner shall provide the City with notice at
least 24 hours prior to the time when inspection of backfill is desired.
8.   Completion by the City. Should any excavation in any street or alley be
discontinued or left open and unfinished for a period of 24 hours after the
approved completion date, or in the event the work is improperly done, the City
has the right to finish or correct the excavation work and charge any expenses
for such work to the permit holder/property owner.
9.   Responsibility for Costs. All costs and expenses incident to the
excavation shall be borne by the permit holder or property owner. The permit
holder and owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by such excavation.
10.   Notification. At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
excavation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, the person
performing the excavation shall contact the Statewide Notification Center and
provide the center with the information required under Section 480.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
11.   Permit Fee. A permit fee of $100.00 shall be payable at the time of
filing the application with the City. A separate permit shall be required for
each excavation.
12.   Permit Issued. Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and
insurance certificate, and payment of any required fees, a permit shall be
issued.
13.   Permit Exemption. Utility companies are exempt from the permit
application requirement of this section. They shall, however, comply with all
other pertinent provisions and shall post with the City a yearly bond in the
amount of $10,000.00 to guarantee such compliance.
135.10   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain all property outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines upon public streets and shall keep
such area in a safe condition, free from nuisances, obstructions, and hazards.
In the absence of a curb, such property shall extend from the property line to
that portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner shall not be required to remove diseased trees or dead
wood on the publicly owned property or right-of-way. Maintenance includes, but
is not limited to, timely mowing, trimming trees and shrubs, and picking up
litter and debris. The abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused
by failure to maintain the publicly owned property or right-of-way.† 10
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
 
Notes
10 † EDITOR’S NOTE: See also Section 136.04 relating to property owner’s
   responsibility for maintenance of sidewalks.
135.11   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within a reasonable time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e])
135.12   DUMPING OF SNOW.
It is unlawful for any person to throw, push, or place or cause to be thrown,
pushed or placed, any ice or snow from private property, sidewalks, or
driveways onto the traveled way of a street or alley so as to obstruct gutters,
or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or alley or to create a
hazardous condition therein; except where, in the cleaning of large commercial
drives in the Business District it is absolutely necessary to move the snow
onto the street or alley temporarily, such accumulation shall be removed
promptly by the property owner or agent. Arrangements for the prompt removal of
such accumulations shall be made prior to moving the snow.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.13   DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.
The property owner shall, at the owner’s expense, install any culvert deemed
necessary under any driveway or any other access to the owner’s property, and
before installing a culvert, permission must first be obtained from the City.
In the event repairs are needed at any time with respect to culverts, it shall
be the responsibility of the property owner to make such repairs, and, in the
event the owner fails to do so, the City shall have the right to make the
repairs. If the property owner fails to reimburse the City for the cost of said
repairs, the cost shall be certified to the County Treasurer and specially
assessed against the property as by law provided.
135.14   MAINTENANCE OF PARKING OR TERRACE.
It shall be the responsibility of the abutting property owner to maintain all
property outside the lot and property lines and inside the curb lines upon the
public streets, except that the abutting property owner shall not be required
to remove diseased trees or dead wood on the public owned property or right-of-
way. Maintenance includes timely mowing, trimming trees and shrubs, and picking
up litter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
135.15   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN PARKING OR TERRACE.
If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under
Section 135.14 within a reasonable time, the City perform the required action
and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in the same
manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e])
CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
136.01 Purpose                               136.11 Interference with Sidewalk
                                             Improvements
136.02 Definitions                           136.12 Awnings
136.03 Removal of Snow, Ice, and             136.13 Encroaching Steps
Accumulations
136.04 Property Owner’s Responsibility for 136.14 Openings and Enclosures
Maintenance
136.05 City May Order Repairs                136.15 Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
136.06 Sidewalk Construction Ordered         136.16 Defacing
136.07 Permit Required                       136.17 Debris on Sidewalks
136.08 Sidewalk Standards                    136.18 Merchandise Display
136.09 Barricades and Warning Lights         136.19 Sales Stands
136.10 Failure to Repair or Barricade
136.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner
and to minimize the liability of the City.
136.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Broom finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping the
sidewalk when it is hardening.
2.   “Defective sidewalk” means any public sidewalk exhibiting one or more of
the following characteristics:
   A.   Vertical separations equal to three-fourths inch or more.
   B.   Horizontal separations equal to one inch or more.
   C.   Holes or depressions equal to three-fourths inch or more and at least
four inches in diameter.
   D.   Spalling over 50 percent of a single square of the sidewalk with one or
more depressions equal to one-half inch or more.
   E.   Spalling over less than 50 percent of a single square of the sidewalk
with one or more depressions equal to three-fourths inch or more.
   F.   A single square of sidewalk cracked in such a manner that no part
thereof has a piece greater than one square foot.
   G.   A sidewalk with any part thereof missing to the full depth.
   H.   A change from the design or construction grade equal to or greater than
three-fourths inch per foot.
3.   “Established grade” means that grade established by the City for the
particular area in which a sidewalk is to be constructed.
4.   “One-course construction” means that the full thickness of the concrete is
placed at one time, using the same mixture throughout.
5.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property abutting any
sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of notification
required herein. For all other purposes, “owner” includes the lessee, if any.
6.   “Portland cement” means any type of cement except bituminous cement.
7.   “Sidewalk” means all permanent public walks in business, residential or
suburban areas.
8.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction, repair,
replacement, or removal of a public sidewalk or the excavating, filling, or
depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection therewith.
9.   “Wood float finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by smoothing the
surface of the sidewalk with a wooden trowel.
136.03   REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, AND ACCUMULATIONS.
1.   Duty of Abutting Owner to Clean Sidewalk. The occupant of every building
or any part thereof in the City, fronting upon or lying along any sidewalk, or
the owner, agent or person in charge of any unoccupied building, lot or parcel
of ground fronting or lying as aforesaid, shall clear the entire sidewalk in
front of or lying along such building or lot of all snow and ice, as the case
may be, within 24 hours after the snow has fallen or ice formed, and shall
cause the same to be kept clear of such snow and ice. When it is not
practicable to take such snow and ice from such walk by reason of its being
frozen to the sidewalk, then such owner or holder shall sprinkle or spread some
suitable material upon same to prevent the same from being slippery and, then
subsequently remove the accumulation.
2.   Failure to Remove; Assessment of Costs. If the occupant, owner, agent, or
person in charge of any such building or lots neglects or refuses to comply
with this chapter, the City may at once proceed to clear said sidewalks of snow
and ice by City employees, agents or officers of the City, by contract or such
other agencies as it may select, under the supervision of the Maintenance
Supervisor or other officer, and may assess the cost and expense thereof
against each lot, lots or fraction thereof, not to exceed $1.00 per front foot,
fronting or lying along such sidewalk and an additional administrative fee of
$25.00 for each time a billing is sent to the responsible party. Adjacent
responsible parties sharing common sidewalks shall be billed on an appropriate
pro rata basis. Any individual who otherwise qualifies for reduction in trash
fees shall be entitled to a 66 percent reduction in the snow removal fee. The
costs shall be reported and shall become due and delinquent, bear the same rate
of interest and be collected at the same time and in the same manner as
provided for other special taxes in the City if not paid within 30 days of
billing.
136.04   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
It is the responsibility of the abutting property owners to repair, replace or
reconstruct, or cause to be repaired, replaced or reconstructed, all broken or
defective sidewalks and to maintain in a safe and hazard-free condition any
sidewalk outside the lot and property lines and inside the curb lines or in the
absence of a curb, any sidewalk between the property line and that portion of
the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
136.05   CITY MAY ORDER REPAIRS.
If the abutting property owner does not maintain sidewalks as required, the
Council may serve notice on such owner, by certified mail, requiring the owner
to repair, replace or reconstruct sidewalks within a reasonable time and if
such action is not completed within the time stated in the notice, the Council
may require the work to be done and assess the costs against the abutting
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2d and e])
136.06   SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDERED.
The Council may order the construction of permanent sidewalks upon any street
or court in the City and may specially assess the cost of such improvement to
abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 384 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)
136.07   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall remove, reconstruct, or install a sidewalk unless such person
has obtained a permit from the City and has agreed in writing that said
removal, reconstruction, or installation will comply with all ordinances and
requirements of the City for such work. A written application for such permit
shall be filed with the City and shall be accompanied by a permit fee of $0.00.
136.08   SIDEWALK STANDARDS.
Sidewalks repaired, replaced, or constructed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be of the following construction and meet the following
standards:
1.   Cement. Portland cement shall be the only cement used in the construction
and repair of sidewalks.
2.   Construction. Sidewalks shall be of one-course construction.
3.   Sidewalk Base. Concrete may be placed directly on compact and well-drained
soil. Where soil is not well drained, a three-inch sub-base of compact, clean,
coarse gravel or sand shall be laid. The adequacy of the soil drainage is to be
determined by the City.
4.   Sidewalk Bed. The sidewalk bed shall be so graded that the constructed
sidewalk will be at established grade.
5.   Length, Width and Depth. Length, width and depth requirements are as
follows:
   A.   Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide and four feet
thick, and each section shall be no more than four feet in length.
   B.   Business District sidewalks shall extend from the property line to the
curb. Each section shall be four inches thick and no more than six feet in
length.
6.   Location. Residential sidewalks shall be located with the inner edge (edge
nearest the abutting private property) on the property line, unless the Council
establishes a different distance due to special circumstances.
7.   Grade. Curb tops shall be on level with the centerline of the street,
which is the established grade.
8.   Elevations. The street edge of a sidewalk shall be at an elevation even
with the curb at the curb or not less than one-half inch above the curb for
each foot between the curb and the sidewalk.
9.   Slope. All sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch per foot toward the curb.
10.   Finish. All sidewalks shall be finished with a broom finish or wood float
finish.
11.   Curb Ramps and Sloped Areas for Persons with Disabilities. If a street,
road, or highway is newly built or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area
shall be constructed or installed at each intersection of the street, road, or
highway with a sidewalk or path. If a sidewalk or path is newly built or
reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area shall be constructed or installed at
each intersection of the sidewalk or path with a street, highway, or road. Curb
ramps and sloped areas that are required pursuant to this subsection shall be
constructed or installed in compliance with applicable federal requirements
adopted in accordance with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act,
including (but not limited to) the guidelines issued by the Federal
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 216C.9)
136.09   BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue, highway,
passageway or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or when any
sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places at
each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material deposited in
the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or flares, and to
keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect sufficient barricades
both at night and in the daytime to secure the same. The party or parties using
the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter shall be liable
for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any wrongful act
or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or employees or for any
misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of any failure to comply
with provisions hereof.
136.10   FAILURE TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.
It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk, or the
owner’s contractor or agent, to notify the City immediately in the event of
failure or inability to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect necessary barricades as required by this chapter.
136.11   INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or upon
any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove or
destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove,
destroy, mar, or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy, mar, remove, or
deface any notice provided by this chapter.
136.12   AWNINGS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any awning over any sidewalk
unless all parts of the awning are elevated at least eight feet above the
surface of the sidewalk and the roof or covering is made of duck, canvas or
other suitable material supported by iron frames or brackets securely fastened
to the building, without any posts or other device that will obstruct the
sidewalk or hinder or interfere with the free passage of pedestrians.
136.13   ENCROACHING STEPS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of the
Council.
136.14   OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.
It is unlawful for a person to:
1.   Stairs and Railings. Construct or build a stairway or passageway to any
cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose any
portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of the
Council.
2.   Openings. Keep open any cellar door, grating, or cover to any vault on any
sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect the public.
3.   Protect Openings. Neglect to properly protect or barricade all openings on
or within six feet of any sidewalk.
136.15   FIRES OR FUEL ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.
136.16   DEFACING.
It is unlawful for a person to scatter or place any paste, paint, or writing on
any sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
136.17   DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal,
or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
136.18   MERCHANDISE DISPLAY.
It is unlawful for a person to place upon or above any sidewalk, any goods or
merchandise for sale or for display in such a manner as to interfere with the
free and uninterrupted passage of pedestrians on the sidewalk; in no case shall
more than three feet of the sidewalk next to the building be occupied for such
purposes.
136.19   SALES STANDS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or keep any vending machine or stand for
the sale of fruit, vegetables or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.
CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS
 
137.01 Power to Vacate                137.04 Findings Required
137.02 Planning and Zoning Commission 137.05 Disposal of Vacated Streets or
                                      Alleys
137.03 Notice of Vacation Hearing     137.06 Disposal by Gift Limited
137.01   POWER TO VACATE.
When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of the
City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2a])
137.02   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
Any proposal to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds
shall be referred by the Council to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its
study and recommendation prior to further consideration by the Council. The
Commission shall submit a written report including recommendations to the
Council within 30 days after the date the proposed vacation is referred to the
Commission.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
137.03   NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.
The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the time
at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.
137.04   FINDINGS REQUIRED.
No street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:
1.   Public Use. The street, alley, portion thereof, or any public ground
proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and therefore,
its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified.
2.   Abutting Property. The proposed vacation will not deny owners of property
abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.
137.05   DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.
When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public ground,
the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 364.7, Code
of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)
137.06   DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.
The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental body
for a public purpose or to a fair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 174.15[2] and 364.7[3])
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted, vacating certain streets, alleys or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED            ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
249           March 7, 1977
250           March 7, 1977
251           March 7, 1977
252           April 4, 1977
261           September 26, 1977
276           March 26, 1979
283           January 12, 1981
349           January 17, 1984
357           March 19, 1985
378           May 20, 1986
379           May 20, 1986
432           August 16, 1989
468           October 14, 1992
649           December 21, 2015
651           April 18, 2016
662           November 19, 2018
CHAPTER 138
STREET GRADES
 
138.01 Purpose and Definition 138.03 Record Maintained
138.02 Established Grades
 
138.01   PURPOSE AND DEFINITION.
This chapter is designed to meet the requirements of the Code of Iowa for the
establishment of street grades. As used herein, “grade” means the longitudinal
reference lines, as established by ordinance of the Council, which designate
the elevation at which a street or sidewalk is to be built.
138.02   ESTABLISHED GRADES.
The grades of all streets, alleys, and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance, are hereby confirmed, ratified, and established as
official grades.
138.03   RECORD MAINTAINED.
The Clerk shall maintain a record of all established grades and furnish
information concerning such grades upon request.
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street or sidewalk grades and remain
in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
37            1939
 
CHAPTER 139
NAMING OF STREETS
 
139.01 Naming New Streets      139.04 Official Street Name Map
139.02 Changing Name of Street 139.05 Revision of Street Name Map
139.03 Recording Street Names
139.01   NAMING NEW STREETS.
New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
1.   Extension of Existing Street. Streets added to the City that are natural
extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the existing
street.
2.   Resolution. All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by resolution.
3.   Planning and Zoning Commission. Proposed street names shall be referred to
the Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation.
139.02   CHANGING NAME OF STREET.
The Council may, by resolution, change the name of a street.
139.03   RECORDING STREET NAMES.
Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the Clerk
shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County Auditor and County
Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)
139.04   OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map,
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: “This is to certify
that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in Section 139.04 of the
Code of Ordinances of Carter Lake, Iowa.”
139.05   REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.
If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the change has been approved by the Council with an entry on the
Official Street Name Map as follows: “On (date), by official action of the City
Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map:
(brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the Clerk.
CHAPTER 140
CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES
 
140.01 Exercise of Police Power 140.04 Access Controls Imposed
140.02 Definition               140.05 Access Approval
140.03 Right of Access Limited  140.06 Construction Of Barriers
140.01   EXERCISE OF POLICE POWER.
This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the City under
Chapter 306A, Code of Iowa, for the preservation of the public peace, health,
and safety and for the promotion of the general welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.1)
140.02   DEFINITION.
The term “controlled access facility” means a highway or street especially
designed for through traffic, and over, from or to which owners or occupants of
abutting land or other persons have no right or easement or only a controlled
right or easement of access, light, air, or view by reason of the fact that
their property abuts upon such controlled access facility or for any other
reason.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.2)
140.03   RIGHT OF ACCESS LIMITED.
No person has any right of ingress or egress to or from abutting lands onto or
across any controlled access facility, except at such designated points at
which access is permitted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.4)
140.04   ACCESS CONTROLS IMPOSED.
Ingress to, from, or across Iowa Primary Road No. 165, to or from abutting
lands, and egress to, from, or across the highway to or from abutting lands is
hereby prohibited, except as follows:
1.   1.   At such points designated and permitted by the Iowa Department of
Transportation, and upon such terms and conditions as may be specified from
time to time;
2.   2.   Access rights and rights-of-way acquired by the Iowa Department of
Transportation by purchase or condemnation;
3.   3.   Changes of physical features of the highway which are authorized by
the Council after approval has been secured by the Council from the Iowa
Department of Transportation.
140.05   ACCESS APPROVAL.
No access ways shall be granted or permitted by the City without the approval
of the Iowa Department of Transportation.
140.06   CONSTRUCTION OF BARRIERS.
The City authorizes the Iowa Department of Transportation to construct and
preserve, within limits of the highway, any physical barriers that it deems
necessary to prohibit or eliminate unlawful means of access to or use of the
highway facility by pedestrian or vehicular traffic or for any other purpose.
CHAPTER 141
RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMITS
141.01 Permit        141.10 Resolution of Council for Construction Of Sidewalks
Required
141.02 Definitions   141.11 Damage of Sidewalks and Notices
141.03 Emergencies   141.12 Preliminary Review
141.04 Permittee
Indemnity Agreement; 141.13 Permits; Issuance; Fee
Issuance Required
141.05 Insurance and 141.14 Specifications
Bond
141.06 Contractor    141.15 Notice of Commencement of Construction – Time For
Indemnity Agreement; Completion
Issuance Required
141.07 Additional    141.16 Inspection
Requirements
141.08 Permit        141.17 Expiration Date of Permit
Application
141.09 Reservation
of Right to Remove   141.18 Penalty
Driveway Approach
141.01   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person, firm, or corporation shall perform any regulated activity in the
City right-of-way without first obtaining the appropriate permit(s) from the
City to do so.
141.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined.
1.   “Regulated activity” means the following activity but not limited to the
following:
   A.   Bore;
   B.   Cut, remove, alter, obstruct, or construct any curbing, alley, driveway
approach, sidewalk, vehicular access, street or roadway;
   C.   Erect any structure, permanent or temporary;
   D.   Excavate any hole or trench;
   E.   Grading;
   F.   Hang cable;
   G.   Landscaping
   H.   Make any sanitary sewer or storm sewer connection or repair;
   I.   Obstruct any roadway or interfere with traffic or sight triangle;
   J.   Place any drainage tube;
   K.   Place any obstruction such as a dumpster or materials; and
   L.   Tunnel;
2.   “Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices” (MUTCD) means the latest
version of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
3.   “Work” means uninterrupted and continuous until its completion.
141.03   EMERGENCIES.
If an emergency arises which would require the performance of any of the
regulated activities to be performed immediately so as to protect the public
safety, then and in that event, it shall not be necessary to secure the permits
prior to performing the activity. However, all appropriate permits will be
obtained immediately upon the termination of the emergency condition. The
property owner for whose benefit the work is being performed and the contractor
shall hold harmless, indemnify, and defend the City against all claims and
suits arising out of the work performed.
141.04   PERMITTEE IDEMNITY AGREEMENT; ISSUANCE REQUIRED.
No person will be granted a permit under this chapter unless they have agreed
in writing to hold harmless, indemnify, and defend the City from any and all
suits and actions of every description that may be brought against said City on
account of property damage or personal injury, including death, received or
sustained by any person or persons through negligence of the permit holder,
their agents, and employees.
141.05   INSURANCE AND BOND.
No permits shall be issued for the regulated activities in the City right-of-
way such time that the applicant has provided proof of insurance and a bond to
the Public Works Department in amounts and coverages that either meet or exceed
the standards established by the Building Official.
141.06   CONTRACTOR INDEMNITY AGREEMENT; ISSUANCE REQUIRED.
If contractors and subcontractors are utilized in the performance of any of the
regulated activities, and they are not expressly covered by the insurance and
bond documents provided pursuant to Section 141.05 then such contractors and
subcontractors shall be required to provide their own proof of insurance and
bond prior to performing any of the regulated activities.
141.07   ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
For regulated activities being performed in the actual roadway portion of the
right-of-way, the additional requirements set out herein shall be met.
1.   For the purposes of this chapter the roadway portion of the right-of-way
is that portion which lies between the curbs. On rights of-way where there are
no curbs, it shall mean the roadway that is used or intended to be used for
travel and parking.
2.   The site will be barricaded in accordance with the MUTCD and the review
and approval of the Building Official.
3.   The site will be posted with a contractor identification sign visible from
all routes approaching the work. This sign shall include the name of the
contractor and a telephone number which will be answered 24 hours a day, seven
days a week. This sign shall be, at a minimum, one foot by two feet. The name
shall be in three-inch letters, and the phone number in one and one-half inch
letters.
4.   Street repair patches meeting City specifications shall be in place, and
the road will be open to traffic within 72 hours of the completion of the work.
5.   Temporary patches may be authorized in certain cases, but they must meet
City specifications and requirements.
6.   If the roadway is an arterial or collector street, a drawing illustrating
what and how traffic control devices will be utilized must be submitted the
City for review at least 72 hours prior to the commencement of the proposed
work.
141.08   PERMIT APPLICATION.
Prior to performing any regulated activity in the right-of-way, the owner of
the abutting property, or the person who is to perform the work, shall file an
application in the office of the Maintenance Department Supervisor. This
application shall contain the following information:
1.   The name of the property owner abutting the regulated activity;
2.   The street address or legal description of the parcel of land abutting the
regulated activity;
3.   The name and address of the contractor or other person who is to undertake
the regulated activity;
4.   The date work is scheduled to commence;
5.   A scale drawing attached to the application showing the proposed location
of the work, its relation to the abutting right-of-way, adjacent properties,
any driveway approaches, and the traveled way of the abutting street;
6.   All information required by other sections of this chapter; and
7.   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the Maintenance
Department Supervisor.
141.09   RESERVATION OF RIGHT TO REMOVE DRIVEWAY APPROACH.
The granting of a permit for the construction of a driveway approach and the
issuance of a certificate of completion shall in no way vest any right in the
permittee or in any person having any vested interest in the land to which said
approach may run, or in any person who may subsequently acquire any interest in
such land, to maintain such approach, and the City specifically reserves the
right and power to remove such approach or any part thereof if such removal is
deemed necessary as a matter of public convenience, necessity, or safety, or if
such removal becomes necessary in order to facilitate drainage upon or along
any street right-of-way or traveled way, or if such removal becomes necessary
in order to widen, change, or otherwise improve the traveled way or the right-
of-way of any street, alley, or other public thoroughfare. The cost of such
action under this section shall be borne by the City.
141.10   RESOLUTION OF COUNCIL FOR CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS.
The Council may by resolution order the construction of any sidewalk within the
City as a public improvement in accordance with the procedures of Chapter 384,
Division IV, of the Code of Iowa, and assess the cost of such construction as
provided for in the Code of Iowa.
141.11   DAMAGE OF SIDEWALKS AND NOTICES.
No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle or livestock upon any
portion of any sidewalk or approach thereto, while in the course of
construction, reconstruction or repair or upon any portion of any completed
sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove, destroy, mar, or deface any
sidewalk at any time, or destroy, mar, remove, or deface any notice provided
for by this chapter.
141.12   PRELIMINARY REVIEW.
Within 10 working days from the filing of an application, the Building Official
shall review the permit application for the proposed work and shall determine
upon its completion that it will conform to and be in accordance with all
specifications adopted herein. As in other portions of this Code, other
inspections, the Maintenance Department Supervisor may make or require any
other inspections or any other construction or work to ascertain compliance
with the provisions of this chapter and other laws which are enforced by the
Maintenance Department Supervisor. If it is necessary for the Maintenance
Department Supervisor to request a review of any plans submitted by an
applicant or if the Maintenance Department Supervisor needs to request the
services of special inspector at any phase of the construction, the cost of the
Maintenance Department Supervisor’s consultation with and any cost incurred by
the City for their services of such special inspector shall be passed on to the
applicant. If a bill is submitted to the applicant and contractor, and payment
is not made forthwith, the Maintenance Department Supervisor shall be entitled
to enforce this chapter as provided through fines, revocation of permit,
penalties or withholding the approval of the project until the bill is paid in
full. If the applicant or contractor believes the bill is unreasonable or
unnecessary, the contractor may appeal the Maintenance Department Supervisor s
position to the Council by written request within 10 days of the submission of
the bill by the Maintenance Department Supervisor to the applicant or
contractor. The Council shall grant a hearing on the request as soon as
practicable. If a special meeting is necessitated to determine the fair and
reasonableness of the bill, the applicant shall be required to pay the cost of
any special meeting of the Council. These extra fees incurred by the
Maintenance Department Supervisor may include but shall not be limited to
consultations with or reviews of plans by licensed engineers, architects and
surveyor.
141.13   PERMITS; ISSUANCE; FEE.
Upon completion of the preliminary review, if it is determined that the
proposed work will conform to and be in accordance with all specifications
adopted hereunder and otherwise will meet the requirements of all other laws
and regulations, such permit shall be issued in the name of the applicant.
1.   If it is determined that the proposed construction will not be in
conformity with this chapter or the provisions of any law or regulation, the
Maintenance Department Supervisor shall advise the applicant of any and all
changes which will be necessary, and the applicant will file with the
Maintenance Department Supervisor such amendments to their application as may
be necessary to incorporate such changes.
2.   At the discretion of the Maintenance Department Supervisor, such permit
may be issued with the required corrections incorporated into the permit.
3.   If such amendments are sufficient to show the necessary changes, the
Maintenance Department Supervisor shall issue such permit as provided in this
section.
4.   No permit shall be issued if the proposed construction will be in
violation of this chapter or any other law or regulation.
5.   In order to defray the cost of administering this chapter, a fee as set
forth in the prevailing schedule of fees shall be charged for each permit
issued.
6.   Whenever any work for which a permit is required by this chapter has been
commenced without first obtaining a permit, except as provided for in Section
141.03 above, the applicant will pay three times the established permit fee for
the proposed work.
141.14   SPECIFICATIONS.
All work shall be performed in accordance with the plans and specifications for
such work as are currently established by the Maintenance Department
Supervisor, and that may be established by the Maintenance Department
Supervisor in the manner outlined in Section 141.12.
141.15   NOTICE OF COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION – TIME FOR COMPLETION.
The permittee shall provide the Building Official with 24-hour notice prior to
the start of construction. Upon commencement of the work, permittee shall have
20 calendar days to complete the work unless an extension of time is granted by
the Maintenance Department Supervisor. Such extension may be granted upon
written application by the permittee and demonstration of sufficient cause for
the extension. Within 48 hours after completion of the work, permittee shall
notify the Maintenance Department Supervisor. The provisions in this section
are superseded by those in Section 141.16 which are more restrictive.
141.16   INSPECTION.
1.   Once construction is commenced, the Maintenance Department Supervisor may
periodically inspect the site to assess progress. An inspection is required
before the placement of concrete. The permittee must contact the Maintenance
Department Supervisor 24 hours in advance to arrange for this inspection.
Failure to do so could result in rejection of the work.
2.   If the Maintenance Department Supervisor finds that the construction is
not in conformance with the approved permit application and amendments, the
specifications, or any other law or regulation, they shall notify the permittee
in writing of items of noncompliance. The permittee shall have 10 days within
which to remedy all items of noncompliance.
141.17   EXPIRATION DATE OF PERMIT.
Each permit issued hereunder shall be valid for a period of 60 calendar days
from the date of issuance, and the work must be commenced under such permit
within that 60-day period. The Maintenance Department Supervisor shall have the
authority to waived.
141.18   PENALTY.
Any person found guilty of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
shall upon conviction be subject to the penalty provisions of this Code of
Ordinance found in Chapter 3. Each day that a violation is allowed to continue
shall constitute a separate and distinct violation. At the discretion of the
City Attorney, any violation of the provisions of this chapter may be pursued
as a municipal infraction according to the terms of this Code, in lieu of
criminal prosecution.
CHAPTER 145
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
 
145.01 Enforcement Officer          145.05 Conduct of Hearing
145.02 General Definition of Unsafe 145.06 Posting of Signs
145.03 Unsafe Building              145.07 Right to Demolish; Municipal
                                    Infraction
145.04 Notice to Owner              145.08 Costs
145.01   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
The Building Official is responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
145.02   GENERAL DEFINITION OF UNSAFE.
All buildings or structures that are structurally unsafe or not provided with
adequate egress, or that constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous
to human life, or that in relation to existing use constitute a hazard to
safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment, are, for the purpose of this
chapter, unsafe buildings. All such unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be
public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or
removal in accordance with the procedure specified in this chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657A.1 and 364.12[3a])
145.03   UNSAFE BUILDING.
“Unsafe building” means any structure or mobile home meeting any or all of the
following criteria:
1.   Various Inadequacies. Whenever the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, because of:
   A.   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
   B.   Faulty construction;
   C.   The removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the ground
necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
   D.   The deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or
   E.   Any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse.
2.   Manifestly Unsafe. Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or
any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used.
3.   Inadequate Maintenance. Whenever a building or structure, used or intended
to be used for dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay, damage,
faulty construction, or otherwise, is determined by any health officer to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such condition that it is likely
to cause sickness or disease.
4.   Fire Hazard. Whenever any building or structure, because of dilapidated
condition, deterioration, damage, or other cause, is determined by the Fire
Marshal or Fire Chief to be a fire hazard.
5.   Abandoned. Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
145.04   NOTICE TO OWNER.
The enforcement officer shall examine or cause to be examined every building or
structure or portion thereof reported as dangerous or damaged and, if such is
found to be an unsafe building as defined in this chapter, the enforcement
officer shall give to the owner of such building or structure written notice
stating the defects thereof. This notice may require the owner or person in
charge of the building or premises, within 48 hours or such reasonable time as
the circumstances require, to commence either the required repairs or
improvements or demolition and removal of the building or structure or portions
thereof, and all such work shall be completed within 90 days from date of
notice, unless otherwise stipulated by the enforcement officer. If necessary,
such notice shall also require the building, structure, or portion thereof to
be vacated forthwith and not reoccupied until the required repairs and
improvements are completed, inspected, and approved by the enforcement officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
1.   Notice Served. Such notice shall be served by sending by certified mail to
the owner of record, according to Section 364.12[3h] of the Code of Iowa, if
the owner is found within the City limits. If the owner is not found within the
City limits, such service may be made upon the owner by registered mail or
certified mail. The designated period within which said owner or person in
charge is required to comply with the order of the enforcement officer shall
begin as of the date the owner receives such notice.
2.   Hearing. Such notice shall also advise the owner that he or she may
request a hearing before the Council on the notice by filing a written request
for hearing within the time provided in the notice.
145.05   CONDUCT OF HEARING.
If requested, the Council shall conduct a hearing in accordance with the
following:
1.   Notice. The owner shall be served with written notice specifying the date,
time and place of hearing.
2.   Owner’s Rights. At the hearing, the owner may appear and show cause why
the alleged nuisance shall not be abated.
3.   Determination. The Council shall make and record findings of fact and may
issue such order as it deems appropriate.† 11
 
Notes
   † EDITOR’S NOTE: Suggested forms of notice and of a resolution and order of the
   Council for the administration of this chapter are provided in the APPENDIX to
11 this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use of this procedure. We
   recommend you review the situation with your attorney before initiating
   procedures and follow his or her recommendation carefully.
145.06   POSTING OF SIGNS.
The enforcement officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
building a notice to read: “DO NOT ENTER.
UNSAFE TO OCCUPY.
CITY OF CARTER LAKE, IOWA.” Such notice shall remain posted until the required
demolition, removal or repairs are completed. Such notice shall not be removed
without written permission of the enforcement officer and no person shall enter
the building except for the purpose of making the required repairs or of
demolishing the building.
145.07   RIGHT TO DEMOLISH; MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
In case the owner fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with the notice to
repair, rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove the building or structure or
portion thereof, the Council may order the owner of the building prosecuted as
a violator of the provisions of this chapter and may order the enforcement
officer to proceed with the work specified in such notice. A statement of the
cost of such work shall be transmitted to the Council. As an alternative to
this action, the City may utilize the municipal infraction process to abate the
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
145.08   COSTS.
Costs incurred under Section 145.07 shall be paid out of the City treasury.
Such costs shall be charged to the owner of the premises involved and levied as
a special assessment against the land on which the building or structure is
located, and shall be certified to the County Treasurer for collection in the
manner provided for other taxes. In addition, the City may take any other
action deemed appropriate to recover costs incurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
CHAPTER 146
BUILDING CODE
 
146.01 General Regulations              146.05 Adoption of the State Electrical
                                        Code
146.02 Adoption of the State Building   146.06 Adoption of the International
Code                                    Property Maintenance Code
146.03 Adoption of the State Plumbing   146.07 Amendments, Modifications,
Code                                    Additions, and Deletions to the 2018
                                        International Property Maintenance Code
146.04 Adoption of the State Mechanical
Code
146.01   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
Administration of this chapter shall be as provided in this chapter and in the
following sections of the codes named in this chapter and hereby adopted by
reference to provide procedures for local enforcement of the codes,
constituting the Building Code. The Administrative Official or their designee,
designated by the Council, shall be responsible for the enforcement of this
Building Code. The Administrative Official shall be accountable for the
issuance of all applicable permits under this Building Code, which shall
include Building Permits issued in compliance with the City’s Zoning Code. The
Administrative Official shall have the power to render interpretations of this
Building Code and to adopt and enforce rules and regulations supplemental to
this Building Code, subject to the approval of the Council, as they may deem
necessary in order to clarify the application of the provisions of this
Building Code. Such interpretations, rules, and regulations shall be in
conformity with the intent and purpose of this Building Code.
146.02   ADOPTION OF THE STATE BUILDING CODE.
Pursuant to published notice and public hearing, as required by law, the State
Building Code, as adopted by the State in Title 661, Chapter 301, of the Iowa
Administrative Code. Adoption of the State Building Code includes adoption of
the following specific set of International Codes as adopted, amended, and
modified by the State:
1.   International Building Code, 2015 Edition published by the International
Code Council, is hereby adopted in full, including any appendix chapters except
for such portions as are deleted, modified, or amended by the Iowa
Administrative Code, Title 661, Chapter 301. Additional modifications specific
to the City are as follows:
   A.   Amend Chapter 301.3(9) of the Iowa Administrative Code to read as
follows:
      “301.3(9)   Modify Section 109 of the International Building Code, 2015
Edition, to read as follows:
      109.1   Payment of Fees. A permit shall not be valid until the fees
prescribed by law have been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be
released until the additional fee, if any, has been paid.
      109.2   Schedule of Permit Fees. On buildings, structures, electrical,
gas, mechanical, and plumbing systems, or alteration requiring a permit, a fee
for each permit shall be paid as required, in accordance with the schedule
established by resolution of the Council.
      109.3   Building Permit Valuations. The applicant for a permit shall
provide an estimated permit value at the time of application. Permit valuations
shall include total value of work, including materials and labor, for which the
permit is being issued, such as electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing equipment
and permanent systems. If, in the opinion of the Building Official, the
valuation is underestimated on the application, the permit shall be denied,
unless the applicant can show detailed estimates to meet the approval of the
Building Official. Final Building Permit valuation shall be set by the Building
Official.
      109.4   Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance. Any person who commences
any work on a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing
system before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to a fee
established by the Council that shall be in addition to the required permit
fees.
      109.5   Related Fees. The payment of the fee for the construction,
alteration, removal, or demolition for work done in connection to or
concurrently with the work authorized by a Building Permit shall not relieve
the applicant or holder of the permit from the payment of other fees that are
prescribed by law.
      109.6   Refunds. The Council shall establish a refund policy, if any.
   AND
      Delete Sections 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, and 116 and all subsections
therein.”
2.   International Existing Building Code, 2015 Edition, published by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted in full, including any appendix
chapters except for such portions as are deleted, modified, or amended by the
Iowa Administrative Code, Title 661, Chapter 301. Additional modifications
specific to the City are as follows:
   A.   Amend Chapter 301.7(103A) of the Iowa Administrative Code by adding the
following:
      “Re-establishing Section 108 Fees to read as follows:
      108.1   Payment of Fees. A permit shall not be valid until the fees
prescribed by law have been paid. Nor shall an amendment to a permit be
released until the additional fee, if any, has been paid.
      108.2   Schedule of Permit Fees. On buildings, structures, electrical,
gas, mechanical, and plumbing systems, or alteration requiring a permit, a fee
for each permit shall be paid as required, in accordance with the schedule
established by resolution of the Council.
      108.3   Building Permit Valuations. The applicant for a permit shall
provide an estimated permit value at the time of application. Permit valuations
shall include total value of work, including materials and labor, for which the
permit is being issued, such as electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing equipment
and permanent systems. If, in the opinion of the Building Official, the
valuation is underestimated on the application, the permit shall be denied,
unless the applicant can show detailed estimates to meet the approval of the
Building Official. Final Building Permit valuation shall be set by the Building
Official.
      108.4   Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance. Any person who commences
any work on a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing
system before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to a fee
established by the Council that shall be in addition to the required permit
fees.
      108.5   Related Fees. The payment of the fee for the construction,
alteration, removal, or demolition for work done in connection to or
concurrently with the work authorized by a Building Permit shall not relieve
the applicant or holder of the permit from the payment of other fees that are
prescribed by law.
      108.6   Refunds. The Council shall establish a refund policy, if any.”
3.   International Residential Code, 2015 Edition, published by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted in full, including any appendix
chapters except for such portion as are deleted, modified, or amended by the
Iowa Administrative Code, Title 661, Chapter 301. Additional modifications
specific to the City are as follows:
   A.   Amend Chapter 301.8(103A) of the Iowa Administrative Code by adding the
following:
      “Re-establishing Section R108 Fees to read as follows:
      R108.1   Payment of Fees. A permit shall not be valid until the fees
prescribed by law have been paid. Nor shall an amendment to a permit be
released until the additional fee, if any, has been paid.
      R108.2   Schedule of Permit Fees. On buildings, structures, electrical,
gas, mechanical, and plumbing systems, or alteration requiring a permit, a fee
for each permit shall be paid as required, in accordance with the schedule
established by resolution of the Council.
      R108.3   Building Permit Valuations. The applicant for a permit shall
provide an estimated permit value at the time of application. Permit valuations
shall include total value of work, including materials and labor, for which the
permit is being issued, such as electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing equipment
and permanent systems. If, in the opinion of the Building Official, the
valuation is underestimated on the application, the permit shall be denied,
unless the applicant can show detailed estimates to meet the approval of the
Building Official. Final Building Permit valuation shall be set by the Building
Official.
      R108.4   Related Fees. The payment of the fee for the construction,
alteration, removal, or demolition for work done in connection to or
concurrently with the work authorized by a Building Permit shall not relieve
the applicant or holder of the permit from the payment of other fees that are
prescribed by law.
      R108.5   Refunds. The Council shall establish a refund policy, if any.”
      R108.6   Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance. Any person who commences
any work on a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing
system before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to a fee
established by the Council that shall be in addition to the required permit
fees.”
146.03   ADOPTION OF THE STATE PLUMBING CODE.
Pursuant to published notice and public hearing, as required by law, the State
Plumbing Code, as adopted by the State in Title 641, Chapter 25, of the Iowa
Administrative Code. Adoption of the State Plumbing Code includes adoption of
the following specific codes as adopted, amended, and modified by the State:
1.   Uniform Plumbing Code, 2015 Edition published by the International
Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, is hereby adopted in full,
including appendix chapters except for such portions as are deleted, modified,
or amended by the Iowa Administrative Code, Title 641, Chapter 25.
146.04   ADOPTION OF THE STATE MECHANICAL CODE.
Pursuant to published notice and public hearing, as required by law, the State
Mechanical Code, as adopted by the State in Title 641, Chapter 61, of the Iowa
Administrative Code. Adoption of the State Mechanical Code includes adoption of
the following specific codes as adopted, amended, and modified by the State:
1.   International Mechanical Code, 2021 Edition published by the International
Code Council, is hereby adopted in full, including appendix chapters except for
such portions as are deleted, modified, or amended by the Iowa Administrative
Code, Title 641, Chapter 61.
146.05   ADOPTION OF THE STATE ELECTRICAL CODE.
Pursuant to published notice and public hearing, as required by law, the State
Electrical Code, as adopted by the State in Title 661, Chapter 504, of the Iowa
Administrative Code. Adoption of the State Electrical Code includes adoption of
the following specific codes as adopted, amended, and modified by the State:
1.   National Electrical Code, 2020 Edition published by the National Fire
Protection Association, is hereby adopted in full, including appendix chapters
except for such portions as are deleted, modified, or amended by the Iowa
Administrative Code, Title 661, Chapter 504.
146.06   ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
Pursuant to published notice and public hearing, as required by law, the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted in full except for such portions
as may hereinafter be deleted, modified, or amended.
146.07   AMENDMENTS, MODIFICATIONS, ADDITIONS, AND DELETIONS TO THE 2018
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
The following amendments, modifications, additions, and deletions to the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition, are hereby made:
1.   Delete Section 101.1, Title, and replace with the following:
   “101.1 Title
   These regulations shall be known as the International Property Maintenance
Code of the City of Carter Lake, hereinafter referred to as this code.”
2.   Amend Section 103.5, Fees, to read as follows:
   “The fees for activities and services performed by the department in
carrying out its responsibilities under this code shall be as indicated in the
resolution of fees adopted by the Council.”
3.   Amend Section 104.6, Department Records, to read as follows:
   “The Building Official shall keep official records of all business and
activities of the department specified in the provisions of this code. Such
records shall be retained in the official records for the period of time
required by applicable law for retention of public records.”
4.   Amend Section 111.1, Application for Appeal, to read as follows:
   “Any person directly affected by a decision of the Building Official, or a
notice or order issued under this code shall have the right to appeal to the
Council.”
5.   Delete Section 111.2, Membership of Board.
6.   Amend Section 303.2, Enclosures, to read as follows:
   “Enclosures. Private swimming pools, hot tubs, and spas, capable of
containing water more than 24-inches in depth shall be completely surrounded by
a fence or barrier at least 48 inches in height above the finished ground level
measured on the side of the barrier away from the pool. Gates and doors in such
barriers shall be self-closing and self-latching. Where the self-latching
device is less than 54 inches above the bottom of the gate, the release
mechanism shall be located on the pool side of the gate. Self-closing and self-
latching gats shall be maintained such that the gate will positively close the
latch when released from an open position of six inches from the gatepost. No
existing pool enclosure shall be removed, replaced, or changed in a manner that
reduces its effectiveness as a safety barrier.”
7.   Amend Section 304.14, Insect Screens, to read as follows:
   “During the period of April 1 to October 31, every door, window, and other
outside opening required for ventilation of any habitable room, food
preparation area, food service areas, or any areas where products to be
included or utilized in food for human consumption are processed, manufactured,
packaged, or stored shall be supplied with approved tightly fitting screens of
not less than 16 mesh per inch (16 mesh per 25 mm) and every swinging door
shall have a self-closing device in good working condition.
   Exception: Screens shall not be required where other approved means, such as
air curtains or insect repellent fans, are employed.”
8.   Amend Section 304.3, Premises Identification, to read as follows:
   “Premises Identification. Buildings shall have approved address numbers
placed in accordance and in compliance with Chapter 150 of the City Code.”
9.   Amend Section 305.3, Interior Surfaces, to read as follows:
   “Interior Surfaces. All interior surfaces, including windows and doors,
shall be maintained in good, clean, and sanitary conditions, normal wear and
tear excepted. Peeling, chipping, flaking, or abraded paint shall be repaired,
removed, or covered, cracked or loose plaster, decayed wood, and other
defective surface conditions shall be corrected, normal wear and tear
excepted.”
10.   Amend Section 404.6, Efficiency Unit, by adding a new Subsection 5 to
read as follows:
   “5.   A unit that was registered with the City as rental property during the
calendar year 2002 that did not meet the standards of this section shall
continue to be deemed in compliance with this section, subject to the following
conditions:
      A.   It is occupied by no more than one person.
      B.   It has a clear floor area of not less than 150 square feet,
including the areas required by Subsections 2 and 3; and
      C.   The owner of the unit requested a certificate of compliance from the
City by March 1, 2003, and upon verification of the information the City issued
a certificate of compliance.”
11.   Amend Section 602.3, Heat Supply, to read as follows:
      “Heat Supply.
      Every owner and operator of any building who rents, leases, or lets one
or more dwelling units, rooming units, dormitories, or guestrooms on terms,
either expressed or implied, shall supply heat to maintain a temperature of not
less than 68 degrees F in all habitable rooms, bathrooms, and toilet rooms.
         Exceptions:
         1.   When the outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality, maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall
not be required, provided that the heating system is operating at its full
design capacity. The winter outdoor design temperature for the locality shall
be as indicated in the State Building Code as adopted in Section 146.02. In
order to attain compliance with the winter outdoor design temperature criteria,
listed portable heat appliances may be utilized to augment heating plants that
are deemed operational and safe but cannot attain the minimum standard for
conditioned space requirements.
         2.   Room temperature shall be measured at a distance of two feet in
from an exterior wall and at a height of three feet above the floor.”
CHAPTER 150
BUILDING NUMBERING
 
150.01 Definitions        150.03 Building Numbering Plan
150.02 Owner Requirements
150.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Owner” means the owner of the principal building.
2.   “Principal building” means the main building on any lot or subdivision
thereof.
150.02   OWNER REQUIREMENTS.
Every owner shall comply with the following numbering requirements:
1.   Obtain Building Number. The owner shall obtain the assigned number to the
principal building from the Building Official.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
2.   Display Building Number. The owner shall place or cause to be installed
and maintained on the principal building the assigned number in a conspicuous
place to the street in figures not less than four inches in height and of a
contrasting color with their background.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
3.   Failure to Comply. If an owner refuses to number a building as herein
provided, or fails to do so for a period of 30 days after being notified in
writing by the City to do so, the City may proceed to place the assigned number
on the principal building and assess the costs against the property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
150.03   BUILDING NUMBERING PLAN.
Building numbers shall be assigned in accordance with the building numbering
plan on file in the office of the Clerk.
CHAPTER 151
DWELLING IN BARNS, CAVES, OR OUTBUILDINGS
 
151.01 Occupying Certain Structures 151.03 Temporary Occupancy Permit
Prohibited
151.02 Exception
151.01   OCCUPYING CERTAIN STRUCTURES PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person to occupy, as a place of human habitation, except
as provided in Section 151.02, any so-called outbuilding, garage, barn, cave,
basement, or other unfinished structure or unfinished dwelling house within the
City.
151.02   EXCEPTION.
In cases of emergency caused by fire, flood, sickness, or other calamity,
temporary habitation of such buildings and structures may be had, provided a
permit has been obtained from the Building Official.
151.03   TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
The permit for temporary occupancy as a residence, as provided for in Section
151.02, shall not be for a period of more than 30 days, but the same may be
extended for 30-day periods, for good cause, by the Building Official. Such
permits and extensions thereof shall be issued without fees.
CHAPTER 152
TEMPORARY STRUCTURES
 
152.01 Definitions                        152.06 Compliance With Codes
152.02 Compliance With Chapter Provisions 152.07 Removal
152.03 Permit Required                    152.08 Exceptions
152.04 Permit Application                 152.09 Violations
152.05 Permit Fees                        152.10 Revocation of Permit
152.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
1.   “Storage container” means a portable, weather-resistant, commercially
leased or rented receptacle designed and used for the storage or shipment of
personal property, building materials, or merchandise. The term shall not
include yard waste containers, construction debris containers, or containers
having a storage capacity of less than 200 cubic feet.
2.   “Temporary portable storage container” means a large container used for
the temporary storage of commercial, industrial, or residential household
goods, and which does not contain a foundation or wheels for movement.
3.   “Temporary structure” means any shed, structure, building, trailer (which
includes but is not limited to semi-trailers and mobile home type trailers),
tent, or enclosure of any kind used for storage, commercial, or business or
residential purposes which any person or business intends to place on the same
lot with, or on any lot immediately adjacent to, any permanent structure used
for business or commercial or residential purposes, on a temporary basis.
152.02   COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER PROVISIONS.
No temporary structure shall be erected, constructed, placed, or otherwise
allowed to remain in place except as hereinafter provided. Permanent structures
need to follow all code ordinances, including accessory building codes and
ordinances. Any storage container that will be in place more than six months
must be a building and meet the requirements of Chapter 131 and this Code of
Ordinances.
152.03   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No temporary structure shall be erected, constructed, or placed upon any
commercial or business or residential property without first obtaining a permit
from the City. All permits are subject to approval by the Building Official.
Further, the Building Official may impose certain reasonable requirements as
may be required to keep the temporary structure from becoming unsightly to the
surrounding properties.
152.04   PERMIT APPLICATION.
Prior to seeking approval, an applicant shall file a permit application with
the Clerk. The permit application shall be on forms provided by the City and
shall contain the following information:
1.   The name and address of the person or business seeking the permit.
2.   A particular description of where the proposed temporary structure will be
erected, constructed, or placed; including a site plan with dimensions.
3.   The need for such structure, which need shall constitute an acceptable
purpose, such as storage during a construction or demolition project, short-
term storage for persons moving into a residence, etc.
4.   The period of time the proposed structure will be present on the property.
5.   A particular description, including the dimensions, of the temporary
structure to be erected, constructed, or placed upon the property.
152.05   PERMIT FEES.
Upon approval by the Clerk and Building Official and payment of any required
permit fee, the Clerk shall issue a permit to the applicant. The permit for a
residential or commercial property shall be in increments of 30 days and shall
authorize the erection, construction, or placement of a temporary structure on
the property described in the application. The cost of permits shall be as
follows:
1.   Commercial Property.
   A.   Initial permit (30 days)   $50.00
   B.   1st extension (days 31-60)   $50.00
   C.   2nd extension (days 61-90)   $50.00
2.   Residential Property.
   A.   Initial Permit (30 days)   $0.00
   B.   1st extension (days 31-60)   $20.00
   C.   2nd extension (days 61-90)   $40.00
   D.   3rd extension (days 91-120)   $60.00
   E.   4th extension (days 121-150)   $80.00
   F.   5th extension (days 151-180)   $100.00
Commercial properties shall be limited to a maximum of the initial permit plus
two 30-day extensions. Residential properties shall be limited to a maximum of
the initial permit plus five 30-day extensions. All fees for permits and permit
extensions must be paid prior to the expiration of the existing permit.
152.06   COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
Any such temporary structure erected, constructed, or placed upon a property
shall comply with all applicable provisions of this Code of Ordinances,
including fire, electrical, and building codes. Containers must be placed on a
hard surfaced area and shall be located on the owner’s lot. If it is not
currently on hard surface, it shall be placed on hard surface. No part of any
container shall be located on any public property or in the right-of-way. Any
temporary structure shall at all times be kept in good condition and shall not
be in a state of neglect, including (but not limited to) substantial paint
peeling, rust holes or accumulations or missing or broken parts. The temporary
structure shall not obstruct sightlines of driveways or intersections or impede
sidewalks.
152.07   REMOVAL.
Any such permitted temporary structure shall be removed from the property at
the expiration of the time period defined in the permit or upon revocation of
said permit.
152.08   EXCEPTIONS.
This chapter is not intended to be applicable to a location in a nonresidential
area whose main business is the sale or rental of storage containers.
152.09   VIOLATIONS.
A person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of
municipal infraction. Each day said violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense.
152.10   REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
A permit may be revoked by the City for a violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter or any other ordinances of the City or the laws of the State.
CHAPTER 154
HOUSING CODE
                                                             154.21 Notice to
                                                             Owner of Intent to
154.01 Purpose and Intent                                    Institute
                                                             Condemnation
                                                             Proceedings
                                                             154.22 Service of
154.02 Definitions                                           Notice of Intent
                                                             to Condemn
                                                             154.23
                                                             Condemnation of
154.03 Adoption of International Property Maintenance Code   Dwellings and
                                                             Rooming Houses As
                                                             Unfit for Human
                                                             Habitation
                                                             154.24 Vacation of
                                                             Placarded
154.04 Inspection By Building Official                       Dwellings,
                                                             Dwelling Units,
                                                             Rooming Houses,
                                                             and Rooming Units
                                                             154.25 Placard Not
154.05 Registration Required                                 to Be Removed
                                                             Until Defects Are
                                                             Eliminated
154.06 Program For Rental Inspection                         154.26 Placard Not
                                                             to Be Defaced
154.07 Certificate of Compliance                             154.27 Rents
                                                             Uncollectable
                                                             154.28 Person to
154.08 Complaints                                            Give Notice Prior
                                                             to Transfer of
                                                             Interest
154.09 Right of Entry                                        154.29 Service by
                                                             Public Utilities
154.10 Access by Owner or Operator                           154.30 Civil
                                                             Penalties
154.11 Fees                                                  154.31 Emergency
                                                             Orders
154.12 Unrecorded Land Contracts or Purchase Agreements      154.32 Exclusive
                                                             Appeal Remedy
154.13 Tenant’s Duty to Report Damage to Property          154.33 No Limit to
                                                             Enforcement
                                                             154.34 Adoption of
154.14 Tenant’s Duty to Report Disabled Smoke Detector     Rules and
                                                             Regulations By The
                                                             Building Inspector
154.15 Tenant’s Duty to Keep the Rental Property Free from 154.35 Owner’s
Nuisance                                                     Rights
                                                             154.36 Danger
154.16 Notice of Violation                                   Mitigated By
                                                             Tenant
                                                             154.37 Liability
154.17 Contents of Notice of Violation                       of Owner or Non-
                                                             Occupying Property
                                                             Owner
154.18 Extension of Time to Correct Violations               154.38 Short-Term
                                                             Rentals
154.19 Service of Notice of Violation
154.20 Placarding of Dwellings, Dwelling Units, Rooming
Houses. and Rooming Units as Unfit for Human Habitation
 
154.01   PURPOSE AND INTENT.
1.   The purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Contain and eliminate urban blight and deterioration of real property
and neighborhoods;
   B.   Prevent the development of conditions that are hazardous to public
health or safety;
   C.   Assure that dangerous conditions be abated; and,
   D.   Protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the public as a
whole, not individuals.
2.   To achieve the purpose of this chapter, it is the intent of this chapter
to:
   A.   Define the responsibility of owners, operators, and occupants of
dwellings in securing City-wide compliance with minimum physical standards for
real property;
   B.   Establish minimum quality standards for all residential dwellings,
dwelling units, roaming houses, and rooming units; and provide for the
enforcement of those minimum quality standards;
   C.   Establish a baseline for minimum design and installation standards for
dwelling units that were constructed without benefit of codes; and,
   D.   Establish a rental inspection program that has the authority,
responsibility, and administrative mechanism to inspect:
      (1)   Rental dwelling places through a regular, systemic, and area-by-
area procedure, and
      (2)   Specific rental dwelling places on a complaint or emergency basis.
3.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply uniformly to:
   A.   The construction, maintenance, use, and occupancy of any new
residential building or structure, and
   B.   The alteration, repair, equipment, use, occupancy, and maintenance of
any existing residential building or structure.
4.   An existing residential building or structure is deemed to be in
compliance with the design or installation standards of this title if it is in
compliance with the construction code(s), if any, in effect at the time it was
originally constructed, converted, or substantially rehabilitated. An existing
residential building or structure is deemed to be in compliance with the design
or installation standards of this title if it were legally constructed,
converted, or substantially rehabilitated without the benefit of code(s).
Exception: Any conversion or substantial rehabilitation of an existing building
or structure that has an adverse effect on the integrity of its structure or
structural systems is not deemed to be in compliance with the design or
installation standards of this title.
5.   Any alteration, modification, repair, or change of any residential
building or structure must comply with the construction code in effect at the
time an application for a permit for such alteration, modification, repair, or
change is submitted and a permit is issued.
154.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Approved” means approved or set forth by State statute or local
ordinance.
2.   “Basement” means that portion of a building that is partly or completely
below grade (see “story above grade”).
3.   “Bath” means a bathtub or shower stall.
4.   “Bathroom” means that room that contains the toilet, lavatory, and bath.
5.   “Bedroom” means a habitable room within a dwelling or dwelling unit that
is used, or intended to be used, primarily for the purpose of sleeping, but
shall not include any kitchen, dining room, or living room in which cots,
rollaway beds, or davenports may be used for sleeping purposes.
6.   “Building Official” means the chief Building Official or his or her
designee of the building inspection division or any successor division or
department.
7.   “Cellar” means a portion of a building located partly or wholly
underground and having half or more than half of its clear floor-to-ceiling
height below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
8.   “Clear and present danger” means any of the following activities of the
tenant or a person on the premises with the consent of the tenant which may
have negative effects to the health or safety of other tenants, the owner, or
other persons on or within 1,000 feet of the owner’s property:
   A.   Physical assault or the threat of physical assault;
   B.   Illegal use of a firearm or other weapon, the threat to use a firearm
or other weapon illegally, or possession of an illegal firearm; and,
   C.   Possession of a controlled substance, unless the controlled substance
was obtained directly from or pursuant to a valid prescription or order by a
licensed medical practitioner while acting in the course of the practitioner’s
professional practice.
9.   “Dining room” means a habitable room used or intended to be used for the
purpose of eating, but not for the cooking or preparation of food.
10.   “Dwelling” means any building or structure, except temporary housing,
that is wholly or partly used or intended to be used for living or sleeping by
human occupants, but shall not include dormitories, hotels, or motels. Whenever
the word “dwelling” is used in this chapter, it shall be construed as though it
were followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
11.   “Dwelling unit” means any habitable room or group of adjoining habitable
rooms located within a dwelling and forming a single unit with facilities that
are to be used for sleeping, cooking, or eating. Whenever the term “dwelling
unit” is used in this chapter, it shall be construed as though it were followed
by the words “or any part thereof.”
12.   “Exit” means a continuous and unobstructed means of egress to a public
way and shall include intervening doors, doorways, corridors, exterior exit
balconies, ramps, stairways, smoke-proof enclosures, horizontal exits, exit
passageways, exit courts, walkways, sidewalks, and yards.
13.   “Extermination” means the control and elimination of insects, rodents, or
other pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making
inaccessible materials that may serve as their food; or, by poisoning,
spraying, fumigating, trapping, or any other pest elimination methods approved
by appropriate State or federal agencies.
14.   “Garbage” means animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, marketing, or processing of food, or the non-consumed
waste resulting from animals or humans consuming food.
15.   “Habitable room” means a room or enclosed floor space used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms,
toilet compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers, communicating corridors,
halls, closets, halls, utility or storage spaces, stairways, and similar areas.
16.   “Historic building” means any building or structure that is listed in the
National Register of Historic Places, designated as a historic property or
local landmark under local or State designation law or survey, certified as
individually eligible or a contributing resource within a National Register-
listed or locally designated historic district, or with an opinion or
certification that the property is eligible to be listed on the National
Register of Historic Places either individually or as a contributing building
to an historic district by the State Historic Preservation Officer, the Keeper
of the National Register of Historic Places, or the Building Official.
17.   “Infestation” means the significant presence of insects, rodents, or
other pests within a dwelling or on the dwelling premises.
18.   “Kitchen” means a habitable room used or intended to be used for the
cooking or preparation of food.
19.   “Lavatory” means that fixture that is commonly referred to as a “bathroom
sink.”
20.   “Living room” means a habitable room that is used or intended to be used
primarily for general living purposes, but not for sleeping or cooking.
21.   “Minimum quality standards” means those standards that address basic
equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, and thermal conditions; safety
from fire or accident; an adequate level of maintenance; and the use, location,
and amount of space for human occupancy.
22.   “Non-dwelling structure” means any structure, except a dwelling or
rooming house, used or intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of any
person, animal, or property of any kind.
23.   “Occupancy” means the act or acts of living, sleeping, or cooking in, or
having actual possession of a dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit.
24.   “Occupant” means any person over one year of age, including an owner or
operator, living, sleeping, or cooking in, or having actual possession of, a
dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit.
25.   “Operator” means any person who has charge, care, or control of a
building, or any part thereof in which any dwelling units or rooming units are
let, either as owner or agent of the owner.
26.   “Out of compliance” means a building classified as a dangerous structure
or premises as described and defined in Section 108 of the International
Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition; a building found to have more than
three separate violations of Section 304 of the International Property
Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition; or, a building found to have more than five
separate violations of Sections 305 and 306 of the International Property
Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition.
27.   “Owner” means any person who alone or jointly or severally with others:
   A.   Has legal title or equitable title to any dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house, or rooming unit;
   B.   Has charge, care, or control of any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming
house, or rooming unit as executor, executrix, administrator, administratix,
trustee, or guardian of the estate of the owner.
28.   “Person” means and includes any individual, firm, corporation,
association, partnership, or similar entity.
29.   “Plumbing” means and includes all of the following facilities and
equipment: gas pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal
units, waste pipes, toilets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, baths,
installed clothes washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents, hot water
heaters, and any other similar fixtures, together with all connections to
water, sewer, or gas lines.
30.   “Premises” means a platted lot, or part thereof, or unplatted lot or
parcel of land, either occupied or unoccupied by any dwelling or non-dwelling
structure.
31.   “Public or common hall” means a hall, corridor, or passageway not within
the exclusive control of the occupants of one dwelling unit or rooming unit.
32.   “Plumb” means the exterior walls or other vertical structural members do
not list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through
the center of gravity falls to the outside the middle one third of the base.
33.   “Rental property” means any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or
rooming unit that is occupied by a person or persons other than the owner of
record, a member of the owner of record’s family, or a person or person either
a beneficiary of a trust or a surviving spouse that includes the property in
the trust estate. For purposes of this chapter, a member of a “family” includes
the spouse, child(ren), parent(s), grandchild(ren), and grandparent(s) of the
owner of record.
34.   “Roomer” means an occupant of a rooming house who is charged rent and is
not a member of the rooming houses owner’s or operator’s family.
35.   “Rooming house” means any dwelling or that part of any dwelling
containing one or more rooming units in which space is let by the owner or
operator to one or more roomers.
36.   “Rooming unit” means any room or group of rooms forming a single
habitable unit in a rooming house, used or intended to be used for living or
sleeping, but not for cooking or eating.
37.   “Rubbish” means any combustible or non-combustible waste material, except
garbage.
38.   “Safety” means the condition of being reasonably free from danger or
hazards that may cause accidents or disease.
39.   “Short term rental” means the renting of any dwelling for a term of less
than 90 continuous days.
40.   “Story above grade” means any story having its finished surface entirely
above grade plane, except that a basement shall be considered as a story above
grade plane where the finished surface of the floor above the basement meets
any one of the following:
   A.   Is more than six feet above grade plane;
   B.   Is more than six feet above the finished ground level for more than 50
percent of the total building perimeter; or
   C.   Is more than 12 feet above the finished ground level at any point.
41.   “Toilet” means a water closet with a bowl and trap made in one piece,
which is of such shape and form, and which holds a sufficient quantity of water
so that fecal matter will not collect on the surface of the bowl, and which is
equipped with flushing rims which permit the bowl to be properly flushed and
scoured when water is discharged through the flushing rims.
42.   “Violator” means any person who has violated any provision of this title.
154.03   ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
The current version of the International Property Maintenance Code as adopted
in Section 146.06 and amended in Section 146.07 shall pertain to the management
and enforcement of this chapter.
154.04   INSPECTION BY BUILDING OFFICIAL.
The Building Official is authorized and directed to enter and make such
inspections as are necessary to determine the condition of dwellings, dwelling
units, rooming houses, rooming units, and the premises thereof in order that
they may perform their duty of safeguarding the public health, safety, and
welfare. The Building Official shall give 24 hours’ notice of the planned
inspection, by posting a notice prominently displayed on the property. Good
faith efforts to notify the owner or operator shall also be made simultaneously
by attempting to contact the owner or operator at the address or phone number
on record with the City regarding the subject property.
154.05   REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
1.   Each owner or operator of rental property shall register such rental
property with the Building Official annually. A registration is effective from
January 1 until and including the December 31 immediately following. A
registration that is set to expire must be renewed for the next annual
registration period no later than December 31 of the current period, though
such renewal cannot be sought or granted sooner than December 1 of the current
period.
2.   The Building Official shall provide an application form (written or
electronic) that must be used to fulfill the registration requirements of this
chapter. The form must be completed and updated upon request by the owner or
operator of the rental property. The form shall also require the following
information:
   A.   The street address of the dwelling or rooming house;
   B.   The number of rental units contained in the dwelling or rooming house;
and,
   C.   The name, address, telephone number, and e-mail address of the owner
and any agent of the owner of the dwelling or rooming house.
3.   A registration fee shall be paid, as set forth in the current schedule of
fees contained in Section 154.11.
4.   Upon receipt of the application and fee, the City shall provide to the
applicant a certification of registration, which shall provide proof that the
property is deemed compliant until such time as it is inspected for purposes of
obtaining a certificate of compliance.
5.   An owner or operator of rental property who fails to renew a registration
timely is still obligated to register such property. During the 90 day period
of time following a missed registration deadline, for every 30 days or any
portion thereof that a registration is untimely made, a late fee is imposed in
an amount as set by the schedule of fees in Section 154.11. In addition, if an
untimely registration is not made within 90 days of the missed deadline.
   A.   The registration fee is increased to an amount as set forth by the
schedule of fees; and,
   B.   If the rental dwelling unit is being rented, the owner or operator
shall be issued a citation for non-compliance and shall also pay the fee for
nonregistration in an amount as set by the schedule of fees in Section 154.11.
6.   For newly constructed rental housing, the deadline for initial
registration is 30 calendar days after the certificate of occupancy has been
issued. For rental housing that transfers ownership, the deadline for updated
registration is 30 calendar days after the final transfer or the recording of
such, whichever is sooner. The deadline for any registration of a rooming house
is 14 calendar days after the license (not registration) expires.
7.   No person shall rent to another person or offer to rent to another any
dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit unless the owner or operator of the
same has registered the rental property with the City.
8.   The Building Official shall keep a list of registered rental properties, a
copy of which is to remain on file in the office of the Building Official.
154.06   PROGRAM FOR RENTAL INSPECTION.
1.   Regular Rental Inspections. Regular rental inspections of each rental
property shall be inspected in accordance with a program of regular rental
inspections conducted not more frequently than yearly nor less than every three
years for each rental property.
   A.   At the time of registration, the Building Official shall provide to the
applicant a copy of the current criteria by which rental property shall be
routinely inspected. These criteria may be presented in any format reasonably
calculated to convey the information accurately and concisely. These criteria
will be consistent with the provisions of this chapter. A copy of the criteria
is to remain on file in the office of the Building Official.
   B.   If the Building Official through investigation or by complaint
discovers that an owner or operator of rental property has failed to meet the
registration requirements of this chapter, the owner or operator of the rental
property shall be:
      (1)   Fined in accordance with the schedule of fees for each unregistered
rental dwelling unit or rooming unit; and
      (2)   Such unregistered rental dwelling unit(s) or rooming unit(s) owned
or operator by the landlord or operator shall be inspected on an annual basis
for a period not to exceed three years.
   C.   The Building Official shall establish a notification process (written
or electronic) by which an owner or operator of rental property will be
notified in advance of a regular rental inspection of the rental property. A
copy of the notification process is to remain on file in the office of the
Building Official.
2.   Other Rental Inspections. Rental property may be inspected on a more
frequent basis to ensure compliance with this Code based upon one or more of
the following criteria:
   A.   Information is received indicating that there is a violation of the
provisions of this Code;
   B.   An observation is made by any City official of a possible violation of
the standard or the provisions of this Code;
   C.   Information is received indicating that a rental property is unoccupied
and unsecured or that a rental property is damaged by fire, water, or other
causes detrimental to the structure;
   D.   A determination must be made whether there is a compliance with a
notice or an order issued by a code official;
   E.   A public health, safety, or welfare emergency is observed or is
reasonably believed to exist;
   F.   A rental property is to be demolished by the City or the ownership is
to be transferred to the City; or,
   G.   A rental property is declared a nuisance property pursuant to Chapter
50 of this Code of Ordinances.
3.   Spot Inspections. A sport inspection is an inspection conducted by the
Building Official upon the observation by a City official of a rental property
obviously and substantially out of compliance. This inspection will be
scheduled with the owner or operator of the rental property.
4.   Requested Inspections. Upon the request of the owner or operator of a
rental property, the Building Official shall inspect the rental property to
determine compliance with Section 154.03.
5.   Tenant-Requested Inspection. Tenant-requested inspections must comply with
the provisions of Section 154.08. After proper documentation is provided, the
Building Official shall perform an inspection to verify compliance with Section
154.03.
6.   Inspections. The Building Official shall establish a rating system with
three classifications: compliance; substantially in compliance; and, out of
compliance.
   A.   If after inspection a rental unit is deemed to be in compliance, a
certificate of compliance shall be issued;
   B.   If after inspection a rental property is deemed to be substantially in
compliance, a list of deficiencies shall be provided to the owner or operator
with a stipulated time frame in which to make the repairs. Upon completion of
the repairs, the owner or operator shall schedule a no-charge re-inspection of
the rental property to confirm compliance. If the Building Official finds at
that time that the repairs have not been completed successfully, the owner or
operator shall be required to pay the reinspection fee set out in the current
schedule of fees for each successive reinspection.
154.07   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
1.   It is a violation of this Code for an owner or operator to allow anyone to
rent or occupy any rental property unless the owner or operator holds a valid
rental registration and certificate of compliance for the rental property.
Unless a rental property is re-inspected, a certificate of compliance is valid
for a period of three years from the initial regular rental inspection (as
shown as the issue date on the certificate of compliance). A certificate of
compliance shall be transferable from an owner or operator to another for the
address for which it is applicable. A certificate of compliance in no way
signifies or implies that the premises for which it is issued is in conformance
or compliance with all portions of applicable law. The City has no liability
with regard to a certificate of compliance.
2.   Requirement for Issuance. The City shall issue a certificate of compliance
for any rental property upon request by the owner or operator, provided that
the rental property meets the following requirements.
   A.   The rental property is registered with the Building Official.
   B.   The Building Official determines all provisions of this chapter have
been complied with by the owner or operator; and
   C.   All required fees have been paid in full.
3.   Withdrawal of Certificate of Compliance. The certificate of compliance, if
withdrawn, shall be restored only upon a re-inspection showing compliance with
this Code and any additional fees in full.
4.   New Property. When a certificate of occupancy is issued for construction
of a new dwelling containing one or more units, the Building Official shall
issue a certificate of compliance when the registration is complete for all of
the rental property’s dwelling units or rooming units.
5.   Suspension of Certificate of Compliance. The Building Official shall
suspend a certificate of compliance if the owner or operator has not complied
with the requirements set forth in a notice of Code violation. A certification
of compliance may be suspended for a given dwelling unit or rooming unit
without effect on the other dwelling units or rooming units for which the
certificate of compliance was issued. The Building Official shall issue a
notice of suspended certification of compliance to the owner or operator giving
the reason for suspension and if suspended for a given unit the identity of the
unit, as well as state that:
   A.   The certificate of compliance has been suspended as of the date of
notice;
   B.   Any rental unit that is vacant at the time of suspension or that
becomes vacant during the period of suspension shall not be rented or
reoccupied until a certificate of compliance is issued;
   C.   Failure to comply with the terms of suspension is a violation of this
Code; and
   D.   Suspension may be appealed to the Council.
154.08   COMPLAINTS.
1.   Any person who would like to make a complaint concerning alleged non-
compliance with the provisions of this chapter with regard to any rental
property shall do so in writing upon a form (written or electronic) to be
provided by the City which shall be signed by the person making the complaint.
2.   The complaint shall state the address of the premises, the name of the
owner or operator (if known), and the nature of the alleged violation with
reasonable specificity.
3.   If it is a tenant making a complain concerning the rental property in
which they reside, the tenant shall attach a dated copy of the notice in which
they requested the owner or operator to correct the alleged violation, unless
the complaint pertains to an emergency situation.
154.09   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
1.   The Building Official is authorized and directed to enforce all provisions
of the City housing and building codes, and to perform their duties of
safeguarding the public health, safety, and welfare.
2.   The Building Official is authorized to enter and make inspection to
enforce any provision of this Code, or whenever the Building Official has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or upon any
premises any condition or Code violation that makes such building or premises
unsafe, dangerous, or hazardous.
3.   The Building Official may enter such building or premises at any
reasonable time to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon the
Building Official by the Code, provided that if such building or premises be
occupied, they shall first present proper credentials and request entry; and if
such building or premises are unoccupied, they shall first make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner, operator, or other persons having charge or control
of the building or premises and request entry.
4.   The Building Official may make inspections of any rental property at any
reasonable time based upon the need for code enforcement determined as required
by State law.
5.   If entry is refused for regular request or complaint inspections, the
Building Official shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure
entry. When the Building Official shall have obtained an administrative warrant
or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner, occupant, or other
persons having charge, care, or control of any building or premises shall fail
or neglect to promptly permit entry by the Building Official.
6.   In all cases, the Building Official shall endeavor to provide notice of
the inspection by contacting the owner or operator 24 hours’ in advance at the
location of record provided by the owner/operator at the time of registration
or any renewal.
154.10   ACCESS BY OWNER OR OPERATOR.
Every occupant of a rental property shall give the owner or operator access to
any part of the rental property for the purpose of making such inspection,
maintenance, repairs, or alterations as are necessary to comply with the
provisions of this chapter; provided, that the occupant shall be given 24 hours
written notice prior to any inspection, except in case of emergency when
immediate access shall be granted.
154.11   FEES.
The following fees shall be charged in accordance with this chapter:
1.   No Call No Show Fee   $100.00
2.   Third Inspection Fee   $100.00
154.12   UNRECORDED LAND CONTRACTS OR PURCHASE AGREEMENTS.
For the purpose of this chapter any residential property that is the subject of
an unrecorded land contract or purchase agreement shall be treated the same as
rental property. The contract seller shall have the duties, responsibilities,
and be subject to the same penalties, both criminal and civil, as the owner of
rental property.
154.13   TENANT’S DUTY TO REPORT DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
Within 72 hours of causing, witnessing, or discovering any damage to the rental
property being leased by the tenant, the tenant shall report his damage in
writing (written or electronic) to the owner or operator of the rental property
at the address of the owner or operator provided to the tenant in the lease.
The tenant shall keep a copy of this report until the owner or operator has
given the tenant a written or electronic response that acknowledges receiving
the damage report. Any failure by the tenant to timely attempt to notify the
owner or operator about the damage shall be deemed a violation of this section
and punishable in the same manner as other violation of this chapter. For
purposes of this section, damage shall not include normal wear and tear.
154.14   TENANT’S DUTY TO REPORT DISABLED SMOKE DETECTOR.
Within 72 hours of discovering a non-functioning smoke detector within the
rental property being leased by the tenant, the tenant shall report in writing
(written or electronic) this information to the owner or operator of the rental
property. The tenant shall keep a copy of this report until the owner or
operator has given the tenant a written or electronic response that
acknowledges receiving the damage report. Any failure by the tenant to timely
attempt to notify the owner or operator about a nonfunctioning smoke detector
within the rental property shall be deemed a violation of this section and
punishable in the same manner as other violations in this chapter. It shall
also be a violation of this section for a tenant to intentionally disable a
smoke detector within the rental property, which this violation is punishable
in the same manner as other violations of this chapter.
154.15   TENANT’S DUTY TO KEEP THE RENTAL PROPERTY FREE FROM NUISANCE.
Unless otherwise set forth in a written lease agreement, it shall be the duty
of the tenant to keep the property being leased free from nuisance. Any failure
by the tenant to do so shall be deemed a violation of this section and
punishable in the same manner as other violations of this chapter.
154.16   NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
Whenever the Building Official determines that there has been a violation, or
that there are reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter, they shall give written notice of such
violation or alleged violation to the owner, operator, or the occupant as the
case may require.
154.17   CONTENTS OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
The notice of violation shall include the following:
1.   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification.
2.   A statement of the reason or reasons why it is being issued.
3.   A correction order allowing a reasonable period of time, as determined by
the Building Official and set forth therein, for the performance of the repairs
and improvements required to bring the structure into compliance with the
provisions of this Code.
4.   In the case of the placarding of structures as unfit for human habitation,
an order requiring the occupant to vacate the premises by a specific date and a
statement advising the occupant and violator that the utilities may be
disconnected at the date upon which the premises is to be vacated.
5.   A statement advising the violator or occupant of their right to appeal to
the Building Official within the time limits set forth in Section 154.32.
154.18   EXTENSION OF TIME TO CORRECT VIOLATIONS.
1.   The Building Official may grant an extension of time to complete work
necessary to correct the violations set forth in the notice of violation if the
Building Official makes all of the following determinations:
   A.   That the violator has made a good-faith effort to complete the required
work and that the failure to complete the same in the time granted was not the
fault of the violator;
   B.   That the granting of an extension of time would not be detrimental to
the public health, safety, welfare; and,
   C.   That the violator has presented a reasonable and acceptable written
schedule, setting forth specific dates to complete corrective action for each
violation listed in the notice.
2.   The order granting an extension shall be in writing and shall be served in
accordance with the provisions of this section. The order shall also contain a
statement advising the violator of their right to appeal to the Building
Official.
154.19   SERVICE OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
A notice of violation shall be served upon the owner, operator, or the
occupant, as the case may require; provided, that such notice shall be deemed
to be properly served upon such owner, operator, or occupant if a copy thereof
is delivered to them personally, or if, to an entity, is delivered to a
corporate representative; or, if not found:
1.   By leaving a copy thereof at the address provided to the City by the owner
or operator or any address provided to the County Treasurer for taxation
notification purpose by sending a copy thereof by registered or certified mail
with return-receipt requested to their or its address or last-known address;
or,
2.   If the registered letter with a copy is returned with a receipt showing it
has not been delivered, by:
   A.   Posting a copy thereof in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling;
or,
   B.   Publishing a copy once each week or three consecutive weeks in a
newspaper of general circulation within the County.
154.20   PLACARDING OF DWELLINGS, DWELLING UNITS, ROOMING HOUSES, AND ROOMING
UNITS AS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
1.   Whenever the Building Official determines that a dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house, or rooming unit is unfit for human habitation, they shall
placard the same as unfit for human habitation and shall notify the owner and
occupant of their findings as provided in Sections 154.19 and 154.21.
2.   Any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or rooming unit that the
Building Official finds to have any of the following defects shall be deemed to
be unfit for human habitation.
3.   Any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or rooming unit may be
placarded as unfit for human habitation by the Building Official if the owner
or occupant fails to comply with any order based on the provisions of this
chapter or any rules or regulations adopted pursuant thereto; provided, that
such dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or rooming unit is, in the opinion
of the Building Official, unfit for human habitation by reason of such failure
to comply because the building can be described as:
   A.   One that is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, difficult to
heat, unsafe, or vermin infested that it creates a hazard to the public health,
safety, or welfare;
   B.   One that lacks illumination, ventilation, or sanitary conditions
adequate to protect the public health, safety, or welfare; or,
   C.   One that, because of its general condition or location, is unsanitary
or otherwise dangerous to the public health, safety, or welfare.
154.21   NOTICE TO OWNER OF INTENT TO INSTITUTE CONDEMNATION PROCEEDINGS.
1.   When a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or rooming unit has been
placarded as unfit for human habitation and the owner or agent thereof has
failed to comply with the notice and order of the Building Official pertaining
thereto, or has not initiated the appeal process, or has filed an appeal and
has been denied relief or modification of the requirements of this chapter, the
Building Official, at the expiration of the allotted time for compliance and
appeal, may serve notice of intent to condemn.
2.   The notice shall include the following:
   A.   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification;
   B.   A statement of the reason or reasons why it is being issued and the
description of the repairs and improvements required to bring the placarded
dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or rooming unit into compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and any rules or regulations adopted pursuant
thereto; and,
   C.   A statement of the owner’s right to appeal to the Building Official.
154.22   SERVICE OF NOTICE OF INTENT TO CONDEMN.
The notice of intent to condemn shall be served upon the owner or agent,
pursuant to the provisions of Section 154.21.
154.23   CONDEMNATION OF DWELLINGS AND ROOMING HOUSES AS UNFIT FOR HUMAN
HABITATION.
When the notice of intent to condemnation, required by Section 154.21, has been
served as provided, the Building Official shall, after the expiration of the
allotted time for hearing and appeal from the hearing, cause to be submitted to
the City Council their report in writing giving a complete description of the
structure and of the lot or parcel of land on which the same is situated,
together with their recommendation respecting the repair, removal, or
destruction thereof and the probable costs thereof for condemnation proceedings
under the Building Code.
154.24   VACATION OF PLACARDED DWELLINGS, DWELLING UNITS, ROOMING HOUSES, AND
ROOMING UNITS.
Any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or rooming unit that has been
placarded as unfit for human habitation by the Building Official shall be
vacated within a reasonable length of time as determined and conveyed to those
affected by the Building Official. No owner or operator shall rent to any
person for human habitation and no person shall occupy any dwelling, dwelling
unit, rooming house, or rooming unit that has been placarded by the Building
Official after the date on which the Building Official has required the
dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or rooming unit to be vacated.
154.25   PLACARD NOT TO BE REMOVED UNTIL DEFECTS ARE ELIMINATED.
No dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or rooming unit that has been
placarded as unfit for human habitation shall again be used for human
habitation until written approval is secured from, and such placard is removed
by, the Building Official. The Building Official shall remove such placard
whenever the defect or defects upon which the placarding action was based has
or have been eliminated or when the dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or
rooming unit has been condemned and demolition or removal is undertaken.
154.26   PLACARD NOT TO BE DEFACED.
No person shall deface or remove the placard from any dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house, or rooming unit that has been placarded by the Building Official
as unfit for human habitation, except as provided in Section 154.25.
154.27   RENTS UNCOLLECTABLE.
Whenever any structure has been placarded as unfit for human habitation and the
owner or operator has received notice pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, no rent shall be recoverable by the owner or operator for any
leasehold interest in the property referred to in such notice until all cited
violations have been corrected and the corrections have been approved by the
Building Official. The collection of rents during this period, unless an
exception exists as outlined below, shall be a violation of this section
punishable by the provisions set for the in Section 1.14 of this Code of
Ordinances.
Exception. If it can be established to the satisfaction of the Building
Official that the violations of the housing code that made the dwelling unit
uninhabitable were brought about by the actions or inactions of the tenant, or
the tenant’s invitee(s), the prohibition against the collection of rent is not
applicable.
154.28   PERSON TO GIVE NOTICE PRIOR TO TRANSFER OF INTEREST.
1.   Any person receiving a notice or order pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter shall, prior to any transfer of interest in the property referred to in
such notice or order:
   A.   Provide a copy of such notice or order to any subsequent purchaser,
mortgagee, lessee, assignee, or successor in interest; and
   B.   Notify the Building Official of the name of the successor in interest
and the date of transfer within 48 hours of such transfer.
2.   All notices and orders issued by the Building Official pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter shall apply equal force to any subsequent
purchasers, mortgagees, lessees, assignees, or successors in interest.
3.   Subsequent purchasers, mortgagees, lessees, assignees, or successors in
interest of any person receiving a notice or order pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter shall comply with the original notice or order within the time
set forth in the original notice or order unless new arrangements have been
made by them with the Building Official pursuant to the provisions of Section
154.19.
154.29   SERVICE BY PUBLIC UTILITIES.
1.   It is unlawful and a simple misdemeanor for any public utility,
corporation, or company to furnish gas, water, or electrical service to any
dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or rooming unit that has been placarded
by the Building Official as unsafe for human habitation, except as provided
herein.
2.   The Building Official shall notify the public utility company or
corporation, in writing or by electronic approved by the City Attorney, of
their actions in placarding the dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or
rooming unit and shall specify the date at which time the utility service shall
be discontinued. The utility service shall not be restored to a placarded
dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or rooming unit until notice, in
writing, is received from the Building Official authorizing the restoration of
such service by the utility company or corporation; provided, that the Building
Official may authorize restoration of service to be used in connection with
renovation, repair, or remodeling of the dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming
house, or rooming unit to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
154.30   CIVIL PENALTIES.
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a simple
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in Section
1.14.
154.31   EMERGENCY ORDERS.
1.   Whenever, in the judgment of the Building Official, an emergency exists
that requires immediate action to protect the public health, safety, or
welfare, an order may be issued without a hearing or appeal, directing the
appropriate person to take such action as is appropriate to correct or abate
the emergency. If circumstances warrant, the Building Official may act to
correct or abate the emergency.
2.   Any party affected by an emergency order shall be afforded a right to
appeal upon proper request and as soon as practical, but such appeal will in no
case stay the abatement or correction of such emergency in the interim.
154.32   EXCLUSIVE APPEAL REMEDY.
The exclusive appeal remedy for any party aggrieved by any action of the
Building Official pursuant to this chapter is by appeal to the Council.
154.33   NO LIMIT TO ENFORCEMENT.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed or interpreted to, in any way,
impair or limit any other enforcement authority otherwise provided in this Code
of Ordinances.
154.34   ADOPTION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS BY THE BUILDING INSEPCTOR.
The Building Official is authorized and empowered to make and adopt written
rules and regulations necessary for the proper enforcement of the provision of
this chapter.
154.35   OWNER’S RIGHTS.
Notwithstanding Section 562A.27 or 648.3 of the Code of Iowa, if a tenant has
created or maintained a threat constituting a clear and present danger to the
health or safety of other tenants, the owner, or other persons on or within
1,000 feet of the owner’s property, the owner, after a single three day written
notice of termination and notice to quit, may file suit against the tenant for
recovery of possession of the premises pursuant to Chapter 648 of the Code of
Iowa, except as otherwise provided in this Code.
The petition shall state the incident or incidents giving rise to the notice of
termination and notice to quit. The tenant shall be given the opportunity to
contest the termination in the court proceedings by notice thereof at least
three days prior to the hearing.
154.36   DANGER MITIGATED BY TENANT.
This chapter shall not apply to a tenant if the activities causing the clear
and present danger, as defined in Section 154.02, are conducted by a person on
the premises other than the tenant and the tenant takes at least one of the
following measures against the person conducting the activities:
1.   The tenant seeks a protective order, restraining order, order to vacate
the homestead, or other similar relief pursuant to Chapter 236, 598, or 915 of
the Code of Iowa, or any other applicable provision that would apply to the
person conducting the activities causing the clear and present danger.
2.   The tenant reports the activities causing the clear and present danger to
a law enforcement agency or the County Attorney in an effort to initiate a
criminal action against the person conducting the activities; and,
3.   The tenant writes a letter to the person conducting the activities causing
the clear and present danger, telling the person not to return to the premises
and that a return to the premises may result in a trespass or other action
against the person, and the tenant sends a copy of the letter to a law
enforcement agency whose jurisdiction includes the premises. If the tenant has
previously written a letter to the person as provided in this subsection,
without taking an action specified in Subsection 1 or 2 of this section, or
filing a trespass or other action, and the person to whom the letter was sent
conducts further activities causing a clear and present danger, the tenant must
take one of the actions specified in Subsection 1 or 2 to be exempt from the
proceeding held pursuant to this section.
However, in order to fall within the exemptions provided within this section,
the tenant must provide written proof to the owner, prior to the commencement
of a suit against the tenant, that the tenant has taken one of the measures
specific in this section.
154.37   LIABILITY OF OWNER OR NON-OCCUPYING PROPERTY OWNER.
1.   Any non-occupying property owner or operator with actual knowledge of a
nuisance on their real property or after being served with written notice of a
nuisance condition on their real property shall abate such nuisance within 10
calendar days after having actual notice or receiving written notice. Written
notice shall be personally served on the non-occupying property owner or
operator, or shall be mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested. If
the certified mail notice is returned, then notice may be posted on the subject
real property. If any other section of this Code specifically provides for a
different method of notice or a different time frame for notice, then the
provisions of the other section may be followed instead of the provisions of
this section. If the non-occupying owner or operator fails to abate the
nuisance condition as required, such non-occupying owner or operator shall be
guilty of violating this Code. If a City official designated in Section 154.29
or a court of competent jurisdiction deems the nuisance to be an emergency,
then the emergency provision of this chapter shall apply to the non-occupying
owner or operator. It shall be an affirmative defense for a non-occupying owner
or operator to show that they are either:
   A.   Evicting and permanently removing the tenant from all premises owned or
managed by such owner or operator; or,
   B.   Acting diligently in terminating the nuisance.
If specific sections of this Code provide for liability to owners or operators
with less notice, then the specific sections will apply.
2.   For the purpose of this section the term “owner” shall include property
manager, resident manager, rental agent, or any person responsible for showing
the property to potential tenants, renting to tenants, collecting rent or lease
payments, evicting tenants, or maintaining the property. If the non-occupying
owner or operator is an entity other than a human being, then the term “owner”
shall also include the officers, partners, executives, owners, or other human
being responsible for managing the entity.
154.38   SHORT-TERM RENTALS.
Short-term rentals of any dwelling in any residential zoning district are
prohibited unless:
1.   The unit is owner-occupied; and
2.   The owner is residing on-site and present during the entire duration of
the short-term rental; and
3.   The property has obtained a rental housing permit pursuant to this
chapter; and
4.   The owner has paid hotel/motel tax for the first 30 days of the stay as
required by this Code.
CHAPTER 155
DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS
 
155.01 Permit Required               155.08 Responsibilities of Demolition
                                     Contractor or Permittee
155.02 Application                   155.09 Abandoned or Unsafe Projects
155.03 Issuance of Permit            155.10 Insurance for Use of Streets or
                                     Public Property
155.04 Expiration                    155.11 Insurance for Demolishing Buildings
                                     or Structures
155.05 Suspension or Revocation      155.12 Enforcement
155.06 Permit Fees; Waiver           155.13 Violations
155.07 Transfer of Permit Prohibited
 
155.01   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall demolish or wreck a building within the City unless such person
shall have obtained a permit therefor from the Building Department in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the Building Code.
155.02   APPLICATION.
To obtain a permit the applicant shall first file an approved certificate of a
contractor’s public liability insurance policy written by a company authorized
to transact business in the State, for the principal sum of not less than
$150,000.00 liability to any one person and $100,000.00 personal injury
liability on account of any one accident, and $100,000.00 liability for
property damage. Such policy shall be written in accordance with the standard
form in general use and shall carry an endorsement protecting the City, as its
interests may appear, as the result of any accident or injury for which it
might become in any manner liable due to the acts of the insured or its
employees in the demolition of buildings. Such policy shall carry a further
endorsement to the effect that if the policy is canceled the insurance company
shall notify the Building Department by registered mail not less than 10 days
prior to the date of cancellation. Said certificate of insurance shall be filed
annually on or before January 1 each year. Applicant must file an application
in writing on a prescribed form as furnished by the Building Department. All
approvals required on said form shall be obtained prior to issuance of the
permit.
155.03   ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
If the Building Official is satisfied that the certificate of insurance is
valid and of full force and effect for the duration of the period of the
permit, and that the work described in the application conforms to the
requirements of this chapter and with the provisions of the Building Code, the
Building Official shall issue a permit therefor to the applicant. The issuance
or granting of a permit shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an
approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or of the
Building Code. No permit presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the
provisions of this chapter or Building Code shall be valid, except insofar as
the work or use which is authorized as lawful.
155.04   EXPIRATION.
1.   Every permit issued by the Building Official under the provisions of this
chapter shall expire by limitation and become invalid if the demolition or
wrecking of the building or structure or the use of the public property is not
accomplished during the period of time which is stated on the permit. Such work
or use of public property shall cease upon expiration of the permit and shall
not be recommenced until a new permit has been obtained by revising or renewing
the original application and by the payment of a new fee as specified in the
Building Code.
2.   An expiration date shall be assigned to each demolition or wrecking permit
by the Building Department when the permit is issued. Such expiration date
shall provide for a reasonable period of time for all demolition, thorough
cleanup, backfilling, compacting and uniform grading of the site. If an
expiration date is not shown on the permit when issued, such permit shall
expire by limitation and become invalid 30 days after the date of issuance.
Each permit may be renewed provided that a fee is paid for each such renewal in
the same amount as the original permit fee.
155.05   SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.  
The Building Official may, in writing, suspend or revoke a permit issued under
the provisions of this chapter whenever the permit is issued in error, or on
the basis of incorrect information supplied, or in violation of any ordinance.
155.06   PERMIT FEES; WAIVER.
A fee for each permit shall be paid to the Building Official as determined by
resolution by the Council. Where the demolition of a building, for which a
permit is required by this chapter, is started prior to obtaining said permit,
the fees above shall be doubled, but the payment of such double fee shall not
relieve any person from fully complying with the requirements of this chapter
and the Building Code in the execution of the work or from other fees or
criminal penalties. No fee shall be required for demolition of any building or
structure owned and used exclusively by the City.
155.07   TRANSFER OF PERMIT PROHIBITED.
A demolition or wrecking permit shall not be transferable from one building or
building site to another building or building site or from one person to
another.
155.08   RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEMOLITION CONTRACTOR OR PERMITTEE.
1.   Temporary Fence. A temporary fence shall be erected around an unsafe
excavation, dangerous building or structure to prevent access to the public.
Such fence shall be:
   A.   At least four feet high;
   B.   Consistently restrictive from top to grade;
   C.   Without horizontal openings or indentation wider than two inches; and
   D.   Erected before demolition begins and not removed until the basement is
filled.
2.   Inspection. The permittee shall obtain inspection and approval from the
Building Department prior to backfilling any excavations, holes or depressions
on the demolition site. Excavations, cellar holes, basement holes, abandoned
cisterns or other depressions in the wrecking site shall be filled and
compacted with sand or earthen fill and a tillable layer of topsoil spread over
the entire lot to a uniform, natural grade consistent with established adjacent
grades. (No fly ash or equal.) Adjacent grades, when referred to in these
specifications, means approximate existing elevation of the ground surrounding
a basement, or other excavated or depressed area, at the distance of five feet
outside the area, particularly when the existing ground has previously been
graded up so as to slope away from the area.
3.   Finishing Filled Areas. The permittee shall assure that all filled areas
are adequately compacted or tamped to match the density, stability and grade of
the adjacent undisturbed soils and to prevent the settling of the backfill and
the ponding of surface water.
4.   Cutting and Capping of Utilities. With regard to utilities which need to
be cut and capped during the process, permittee must comply with the following
rules:
   A.   A licensed plumber must cut and cap water and sewer at the main lines.
   B.   A licensed plumber must request the utility company and the Building
Official to inspect the disconnection of the water before it is covered. In
this regard, the permittee must give adequate notice to the City prior to
demolishing the building.
   C.   The local electric company must cut off the electrical service and
remove the meter from the property.
   D.   The local gas company must cut off the gas and remove the meter from
the property.
5.   Additional Backfilling or Grading. In the event that the backfill
materials are not of a consistency and density to produce, support, and
maintain a stable, uniform grade for at least 60 days after the date when the
job is reported “finished” or if the backfill materials were frozen when used,
causing unacceptable settling during the first 60 days after the ground is free
of frost, the permittee shall remedy such settling by additional tamping,
refilling, compacting, and re-grading in conformance with the standards set
forth in this section.
6.   Protection and Restoration of Adjacent Property. The permittee shall
protect all adjacent property, private or public, to avoid damage or injury to
same, and shall repair or replace any structures, vegetation, or topography
which was destroyed, damaged, moved, or changed in conjunction with, or by
reason of, the demolition operation. Such repairs, replacement, or restitution
shall be based upon and consistent with the grade, appearance and state of
repair which existed prior to the starting of the demolition work.
7.   Cleanup. All pieces, parts, scraps, debris, rubbish, wood and organic
materials from a structure or part of a structure in the process of being
demolished shall be cleaned up and removed from the premises weekly. Final
cleanup after the structure is demolished shall include complete and thorough
removal from the premises of all parts or pieces of the building, its contents
and its furnishings, including all debris, organic materials, rubbish, wood,
concrete, and masonry rubble in their entirety; e.g.:
   A.   Concrete or brick floors of basements, or of areaways, stairways,
stairwells or depressed structures shall be completely removed.
   B.   Concrete slabs on ground including floors of buildings with no
basement, entrance slabs, patios, garages or shed floors, and similar exterior
slabs whether of concrete, masonry, rock, or stone shall be broken up and
removed from the site. All hazardous open pits and recesses shall be filled
with thoroughly tamped earth or mortar, whichever is required to completely
eliminate the hazard. Sewers, stacks, or other sanitary ducts extending to or
through the floors and slabs shall be filled as provided.
   C.   When required, all walks and drives within parcels shall be broken up
and removed from the site.
   D.   When required, retaining walls within or on the property line of
parcels shall be removed completely. When retaining walls are required to be
removed, the embankment shall be cut back to a slope of two horizontal to one
vertical, or as permitted by remaining sidewalks, etc.
155.09   ABANDONED OR UNSAFE PROJECTS.
When a demolition project has been abandoned or is found to be unsafe, the
Building Official may order the unsafe conditions corrected, the building
boarded up and the premises barricaded. Upon failure of the owner or owner’s
agent to comply with the order of the Building Official within seven days, the
Building Official, after notice and opportunity for hearing, may cause said
building or structure to be demolished to the extent of the work covered by the
demolition permit, the premises cleaned and suitable drainage grades
established, the cost of such demolition, cleaning and grading to be assessed
to the property as provided by the Code of Iowa.
155.10   INSURANCE FOR USE OF STREETS OR PUBLIC PROPERTY.
Where the public property or streets are to be used or occupied during the
operations of demolishing a building or structure, or where such public
property is required to be protected in compliance with the Building Code, a
certificate of insurance with the aforementioned limits shall be first filed
with the Building Department; said certificate shall be in the form recognized
by the City and acceptable by the Building Department and shall be conditioned
that the principal will indemnify and save harmless the City, its officials,
and any of its employees responsible for issuing permits for the use of streets
or public property, and successors, from and on account of any and all
judgments, claims, costs, expenses, attorney fees or liabilities of any kind
whatsoever which the City and any or all of the persons above enumerated may
sustain or which may be recovered from it or them, from or by reason of the
issuance of each such permit, or by reason of any act, neglect or thing done
under or by virtue of the authority given in any such permit, or in any way
connected with, relating to, or growing out of any work performed by said
principal, or agents and employees, or any subcontractor or anyone in any way
under the principal’s supervision and direction.
1.   Said principal shall in all respects be bound hereby to all applicable
requirements and provisions required by the Building Code of the City, and by
ordinances and regulations now existing and hereafter enacted by the City.
2.   Said principal shall comply with and faithfully observe and obey all
applicable regulations and ordinances of the City now existing or hereafter
enacted affecting or relating to the use of streets or public property.
3.   Said principal or surety shall pay all damages or loss to the City that
may occur from any act or negligence of said principal or agents or employees,
anyone under said principal’s supervision or direction, or any subcontractor,
as a result of the use of streets or public property.
4.   Said principal shall fully protect any and all work, space, materials or
equipment relating to the use of streets or public property undertaken by
principal or under the principal’s direction and supervision or by any agent or
employee, or by any subcontractor.
5.   Said principal shall pay any penalties that may be imposed during the
period of any permit now issued or to be issued during the effective term of
the certificate of insurance. The aforementioned certificate of insurance shall
be filed annually on or before January 1 each and every year.
155.11   INSURANCE FOR DEMOLISHING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
Where streets or public property are to be occupied or the general public
endangered during the operations of wrecking or demolishing a building or a
structure, a certificate of insurance in the amount of $250,000.00 public
liability to any person or $500,000.00 liability to more than one person on
account of any one occurrence, and $100,000.00 property damage shall first be
filed with the City prior to issuance of the demolition permit. Said
certificate shall be on a form recognized by the City and acceptable to the
Building Department and shall be conditioned that the demolition contractor
will indemnify and save harmless the City, it officials, and its employees who
issue permits for demolishing buildings, and the successors, from and on
account of any and all judgments, claims, costs, expenses, attorney fees, or
liabilities of any kind whatsoever which said City and any or all of the
persons above enumerated may sustain or which may be recovered from it or them
from or by reason of the issuance of each such permit, or by reason of any act,
neglect or thing done under or by virtue of the authority given in any such
permit, or in any way connected with, relating to, or growing out of any work
performed by said principal, agents, and employees, and any subcontractor or
anyone in any way under the principal’s direction or supervision.
1.   Said principal shall comply with and faithfully observe and obey all
applicable regulations and ordinances of the City now exiting or hereafter
enacted and all other applicable laws now existing or hereafter enacted,
affecting, or relating to the wrecking of buildings.
2.   Said principal shall pay all damages or loss to the City that may occur
from any act, or negligence of said principal, or agents or employees, anyone
under the principal’s direction or supervision, or any subcontractor, as a
result of wrecking of buildings by said principal.
3.   Said principal shall properly perform and execute and fully protect any
and all work, space, materials, or equipment relating to the wrecking of
buildings undertaken by principal or under the principal’s direction or
supervision or by any agent or employee, or by any subcontractor.
4.   The certificate of insurance for wrecking buildings shall be for a term of
one year, re-filed on or before January 1 each and every year.
155.12   ENFORCEMENT.
The Building Official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all of the
provisions of this chapter.
155.13   VIOLATIONS.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during which any violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter is committed, continued, or permitted.
CHAPTER 156
DIRT HAULING REGULATIONS
 
156.01 Permit Required        156.07 Inspection of Permit
156.02 Deposit Required       156.08 Duty to Prevent Spilling of Dirt; Duty To
                              Clean Street
156.03 Application for Permit 156.09 Protection of Sidewalks
156.04 Permit Fee             156.10 Cleaning of Street by City
156.05 Issuance of Permit     156.11 Site-Plan with Final Grades
156.06 Contents of Permit     156.12 Violation
 
156.01   PERMIT REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person except authorized City employees or persons
contracted by the City to haul or authorize to be hauled any earth in excess of
10 cubic yards over, across, or along any paved street or alley in the City
without a permit from the Building Official to do so.
156.02   DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person except authorized City employees or persons
contracted by the City to excavate earth from front yards or City rights-of-way
to access water lines or sewer lines for connections, disconnects, new service,
or repairs without first placing a deposit with the City. The deposit in the
amount of $200.00 shall be refundable upon inspection of cleanup per Section
156.10.
156.03   APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
Any person desiring a permit required by the provisions of this chapter shall
make application to the Building Official. Such application shall contain:
1.   The place from which the earth is to be removed;
2.   The place to which the earth is to be hauled; and
3.   An estimate of the number of cubic yards to be moved.
The Building Official shall require proof of contractor’s liability insurance
coverage in cases where dirt hauling will occur over City streets and rights-
of-way.
156.04   PERMIT FEE.
Before any permit is issued under the provisions of this chapter, the applicant
shall pay to the City a permit fee in the amount of $25.00 and place a deposit
with the City in accordance with Section 156.02.
156.05   ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
Upon compliance with the requirements of this chapter, the Building Official
shall issue a permit required by this chapter to the applicant therefor.
156.06   CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
Each permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall contain:
1.   The streets or portions of streets over, across, or upon which dirt may be
hauled; and
2.   The time when such work will be permitted.
In no event shall a dirt hauling permit exceed six months in duration.
156.07   INSPECTION OF PERMIT.
A permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
inspection upon demand by any City officer or employee designated by the
Building Official to look after work performed under this chapter. If
necessary, the Building Official shall provide directions to the permit holder
of the appropriate steps to provide dust control during the project. All
reasonable measures will be taken to ensure a minimum amount of dust and dirt
blowing.
156.08   DUTY TO PREVENT SPILLING OF DIRT; DUTY TO CLEAN STREET.
It is the duty of any person engaged in hauling earth over, along, or across
any part of any paved street or alley in the City pursuant to a permit issued
under the provisions of this chapter to use wagons or trucks for hauling such
earth of such construction as the Building Official may approve, and to load
such wagons or trucks in such manner and to clean them after unloading as to
prevent the spilling or wasting of earth therefrom in passing over the streets
and alleys. It is the duty of such person holding such permit, during the
progress of such work, to keep the paved streets and alleys over which dirt is
hauled by them free from any dirt that may be spilled, accidentally or
otherwise, upon pavements, gutters, or sidewalks, and to properly clean the
same when required by the Building Official.
156.09   PROTECTION OF SIDEWALKS.
No person holding any permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall
haul dirt or earth over, across, or upon any permanent sidewalk in the City
without first covering such sidewalk with planks of not less than two inches in
thickness. It is the duty of such permittee to remove and clean sidewalk
crossing areas for pedestrian use after hauling hours each day.
156.10   CLEANING OF STREET BY CITY.
The Building Official shall have the right, when any person operating under a
permit issued under this chapter fails to remove dirt spilled, wasted or left
by such permittee upon any pavement, gutter, sidewalk, or crossing along the
line of haulage, when required, to cause the same to be done at the expense of
the permittee, out of the funds specially deposited in connection with such
permit, with the balance of such fund, if any, remaining after the completion
of the work under such permit to be returned to the permittee. If at any time
the deposit proves to be insufficient, the Building Official shall be empowered
to stop further work and haulage until an additional amount shall have been
deposited, in an amount which, in the opinion of the Building Official, is
sufficient to maintain the pavements, gutters, sidewalks, and crossings clear
of earth during the progress of the work. After the completion of such work,
the balance of such deposit shall be returned to the depositor upon the return
of the permit and receipt.
156.11   SITE-PLAN WITH FINAL GRADES.
If the permit for dirt hauling is applied for during the construction or
remodeling of a structure, a site plan shall be filed with the Building
Official showing the final grade of the property affected. The Building
Official shall give approval of the final grade. If the dirt hauling permit is
being applied for other than in conjunction with the construction or remodeling
of a structure, the Building Official may determine whether or not the changing
of the grade of the affected property will, in any way, affect future
construction or remodeling possibilities as they relate to adjacent properties
and the City streets and rights-of-way.
156.12   VIOLATION.
Any person violating this chapter shall be subject to a civil municipal
infraction or may be subject to injunctive or equitable relief issued by a
court so as to restore the property to its previous condition prior to the fill
or removal of dirt on the site.
CHAPTER 157
WEEDS
 
157.01 Definitions                   157.03 Emergency Control Measures
157.02 Nuisance Declared; Violations
157.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Chemical control” means the application of a herbicide (weed killer) in
strict accordance with the directions on the product and the regulations of the
Code of Iowa and the Iowa Administrative Code, as amended.
2.   “Developed lot or area” means an improved or commercial lot; an improved
area of land.
3.   “Enforcement period” means the period between April 1 and November 15
annually.
4.   “Ground cover” means plants with the growth and root capacity to cover and
stabilize an area of soil and to prevent erosion.
5.   “Land” includes land, buildings, structures, tenements, hereditaments and
all rights thereto and interests therein, equitable as well as legal.
6.   “Noxious weeds” means primary and secondary classes of weeds as defined by
the Code of Iowa and the Iowa Administrative Code, as amended.
7.   “Parking” means that part of the street, avenue, or highway in the City
not covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and the curb line; on
unpaved streets, that part of the street, avenue, or highway lying between the
lot lines and that portion of the street usually traveled by vehicular traffic.
8.   “Plant” means all manner of vegetation, including but not limited to
grass, shrubs, trees, and weeds, excluding cut firewood and compost piles.
9.   “Right-of-way” means the entire width of a platted street or alley,
whether the width is in use for travel or is undeveloped.
10.   “Soil erosion control” means a method of planting and cultivation, or
lack of same, designed to retain soil and to prevent soil movement caused by
natural or human causes.
11.   “Undeveloped lot or area” means an unimproved lot or area of land.
12.   “Unmowed or untended area” means an area of land allowed to grow without
care and supervision, where weeds and grasses are more than nine inches in
height.
13.   “Weed official” means the person designated by the Mayor or Council to
enforce this chapter.
14.   “Weeds” means any plants growing uncultivated and out of context with the
surrounding plant life with a height of nine inches or more or when such plant
has a seed head forming or formed.
157.02   NUISANCE DECLARED; VIOLATIONS.
The failure of a person owning, controlling, or in possession of property to
observe any of the following requirements shall be subject to the penalties
provided in Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances:
1.   Duty to Cut Noxious Weeds. Each owner and each person in the possession or
control of any land shall cut or otherwise destroy, in whatever manner
prescribed by the weed official, all noxious weeds thereon and shall keep said
lands free of such growth.
2.   Developed and Undeveloped Lots; Weed Removal; Grass Cutting. Each owner
and each person in possession or control of any developed or undeveloped lot or
land area shall be responsible to keep said lot or land area, along with the
parking adjacent thereto, alleys, public ways or land areas up to the
centerline of said ways free of any weeds and to keep grasses on said land
mowed so that said grass is less than nine inches in height.
3.   Obstructing Public Ways. Each owner and each person in the possession or
control of lands shall not allow any plant growth of any sort to remain in such
a manner as to render the streets, alleys or public ways adjoining said land
unsafe for public travel or in any manner so as to impede pedestrians or
vehicular traffic upon any public place or way.
4.   Interference with Weed Official. No persons shall interfere with the weed
official or any appointed assistant while engaged in the enforcement of this
chapter.
5.   Fire Hazards. No owner or person in possession or control of any developed
or undeveloped lots or land areas shall allow plant growth or accumulation of
plant materials so as to constitute a fire hazard, as determined by the Fire
Chief.
157.03   EMERGENCY CONTROL MEASURES.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, whenever in the judgment
of the weed official, Fire Chief, or engineer, a property exhibits uncontrolled
weed growth which creates a health, safety, or fire hazard, the weed official
may undertake immediate action to abate said condition without prior notice and
opportunity for hearing. The costs of such action plus a reasonable
administrative fee may be assessed against the property for collection in the
same manner as property taxes as provided by State law. However, prior to such
assessment, the City shall give written notice to the property owner, by
certified mail, and the opportunity for an administrative hearing.
CHAPTER 165
ZONING REGULATIONS
165.01 Title                          165.10 Amendment Procedure
165.02 Jurisdiction                   165.11 Building Permits and Certificates
                                      of Zoning Compliance
165.03 Purpose                        165.12 Schedule of Fees, Charges, and
                                      Expenses
165.04 Consistency With Comprehensive 165.13 Board of Adjustment
Development Plan
165.05 Conflicting Provisions         165.14 Administrative Procedure and
                                      Enforcement
165.06 Relief From Other Provisions   165.15 Criteria For Site Plan Review and
                                      Conditional Use Permits
165.07 Definitions                    165.16 Swimming Pool Regulations
165.08 Site Plan Review Procedure     165.17 Flagpole Regulations
165.09 Conditional Use Permits
165.01   TITLE.
Chapters 165 through 172 of this Code of Ordinances shall be known as the
Unified Land Development Code of the City. † 12
 
Notes
12 † EDITOR’S NOTE:  Unified Land Development Code adopted by Ordinance No. 577 on
   August 28, 2006.
165.02   JURISDICTION.
The provisions of the Unified Land Development Code shall be applicable to all
property within the corporate limits of the City and its extra-territorial
jurisdiction, as provided by Chapter 414, Code of Iowa.
165.03   PURPOSE.
The purposes of the Unified Land Development Code are to:
1.   Serve the public health, safety, and general welfare of the City and its
jurisdiction.
2.   Classify property in a manner that reflects its suitability for specific
uses.
3   Provide for sound, attractive development within the City and its
jurisdiction.
4.   Encourage compatibility of adjacent land uses.
5.   Protect environmentally sensitive areas.
6.   Further the objectives of the Comprehensive Development Plan of the City.
165.04   CONSISTENCY WITH COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
The City intends that this Unified Land Development Code and any amendments to
it shall be consistent with the City’s Comprehensive Development Plan. It is
the City’s intent to amend this code whenever such action is deemed necessary
to keep regulatory provisions in conformance with the Comprehensive Development
Plan.
165.05   CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
The Unified Land Development Code shall be held to provide the minimum
requirements necessary for the promotion of the public health, safety, and
welfare. If any provision of the Unified Land Development Code conflicts with
any other provision of the Unified Land Development Code, any other code of the
City, or any applicable State or federal law, the more restrictive provision
shall apply.
165.06   RELIEF FROM OTHER PROVISIONS.
Nothing in these provisions shall relieve any property owner or user from
satisfying any condition or requirement associated with a previous approval,
special permit, variance, development permit, or other permit issued under any
local, State, or federal ordinance or statute.
165.07   DEFINITIONS.
The meaning and construction of words as set forth shall apply throughout the
Unified Land Development Code, unless where modified in a specific chapter or
section or where the context of such words or phrases clearly indicates a
different meaning or construction.
1.   Words beginning with A:
   A.   “Abandoned Property” means any mobile home or modular home, parked on a
street, alley, or highway in the City determined by the police authority to
create a hazard to other vehicular traffic.
   B.   “Abutting” means having lot lines or district boundaries in common,
including property separated by a public street or alley. Used interchangeably
with adjacent.
   C.   “Accessory Structure” means a structure that is incidental to and
customarily associated with a specific principal use or building on the same
site.
   D.   “Accessory Use” means a use that is incidental to and customarily
associated with a specific principal use on the same site.
   E.   “Addition” means any construction that increases the size of a building
or structure in terms of site coverage, height, length, width, or gross floor
area.
   F.   “Agent of owner” means any person showing written verification that he/
she is acting for, and with the knowledge and consent of, a property owner.
   G.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street and 20 feet or
less in width that is used as a secondary means of access to abutting property.
   H.   “Alteration” means any construction or physical change in the internal
arrangement of spaces, the supporting members, the positioning on a site, or
the appearance of a building or structure.
   I.   “Apartment” means a housing unit within a building designed for and
suitable for occupancy by only one family. Apartments are generally located
within multi-family residential buildings.
   J.   “Approving authority” means the Council of the City or its designee.
   K.   “Architect” means any person registered to practice professional
architecture by the Iowa State Board of Registration.
   L.   “ASCE” means the American Society of Civil Engineers.
   M.   “Attached” means having one or more walls in common with a principal
building or connected to a principal building by an integral architectural
element, such as a covered passageway; facade wall extension; or archway.
   N.   “Average daily traffic” (ADT) means the average number of motor
vehicles per day that pass over a given point or segment of street.
   O.   “Awning” and “awning sign” means a shelter supported entirely from the
exterior wall of a building and composed of non-rigid materials, except for a
supporting framework. An awning sign is a message printed on such shelter.
2.   Words beginning with B:
   A.   “Base zoning district” means a district established by this Code that
prescribes basic regulations governing land use and site development standards.
No more than one base zoning district shall apply to any individually platted
lot or parcel unless the lot or parcel is part of a planned unit development.
   B.   “Basement” means a level of a building below street level that has at
least one-half of its height below the surface of adjacent ground. A basement
used for independent dwelling or business purposes shall be considered a story
for the purposes of height measurement.
   C.   “Beginning of construction” means the initial incorporation of labor
and materials within the foundation of a building or structure.
   D.   “Bicycle lane and path” means a designated lane on a roadway or an
exclusive path separated from a roadway, designed specifically to accommodate
the physical requirements of bicycling. Bicycle paths are ordinarily designed
to accommodate other forms of pedestrian recreation.
   E.   “Block” means an area of land within a subdivision that is entirely
bounded by streets, by streets and the exterior boundaries of the subdivision,
or by a combination of the above with a watercourse, lake, railroad, or other
significant natural or man-made barrier, and that has been designated as such
on a plat for the purposes of legal description of a property.
   F.   “Block face” means the property abutting one side of a street and lying
between the two nearest intersecting streets, or between the one nearest
intersecting street and a major physical barrier, including, but not limited
to, railroads, streams, lakes, or the corporate limits of the City.
   G.   “Board of Adjustment” means a body, established by the City expressly
for the purpose of granting relief from situations of hardship and to hear
appeals as provided by this code.
   H.   “Buffer yard” means a landscaped area intended to separate and
partially obstruct the view of two adjacent land uses or properties from one
another.
   I.   “Building” means a structure entirely separated from any other
structure by space or by walls and having a roof and built to provide shelter,
support, or enclosure for persons or property.
   J.   “Building coverage” means the area of a site covered by buildings or
roofed areas, excluding allowed projecting eaves, balconies, and similar
features.
   K.   “Building envelope” means the three-dimensional space within which a
structure is permitted to be built on a lot after all zoning and other
applicable municipal requirements have been met.
   L.   “Building Official” means the City official, designated by the Mayor
and Council, who is responsible for the administration and enforcement of the
Unified Land Development Code and applicable Building Code and conditional
uses.
   M.   “Building line” means the outer boundary of a building established by
the location of its exterior walls.
   N.   “Building marker” means an historic or commemorative plaque, or a
building name or cornerstone carved into a masonry surface.
   O.   “Building permit” means a document that must be issued by the Building
Official prior to erecting, constructing, enlarging, altering, moving,
improving, removing, converting, or demolishing any building or structure
regulated by this code or by the applicable building codes of the City.
Issuance of a Building Permit follows review of plans by the Building Official
to determine that the proposed use of building or land complies with the
provisions of the Unified Land Development Code.
   P.   “Business” means activities that include the exchange or manufacture of
goods or services on a site.
   Q.   “Business center” means a building containing more than one commercial
business, or any group of non­residential buildings within a common
development, characterized by shared parking and access.
3.   Words beginning with C:
   A.   Canopy” means a projecting non-movable structure cantilevered or
suspended from a building, supported by the main structural members to which it
is attached, and used only as a roof or fixed shelter.
   B.   “Canopy sign” means a sign which is attached or made an integral part
of a canopy.
   C.   “Cartway (or road or street channel)” means the actual surface area of
a road used to accommodate motor vehicles, including moving traffic lanes,
acceleration and deceleration lanes, and parking lanes. On a street with curbs,
the cartway is measured from the back of the curb to the back of the curb. On
streets without curbs, the cartway is measured between the outer edges of the
pavement.
   D.   “Centerline offset” means the distance between the centerline of roads
intersecting a common road from the same or opposite sides.
   E.   “Certificate of occupancy” means an official certificate issued by the
Building Official or their designee prior to occupancy of a completed building
or structure, upon finding of conformance with the applicable building code and
this Unified Land Development Code.
   F.   “Change of use” means the replacement of an existing use type by a new
use type.
   G.   “Channel” means the bed or banks of a natural stream or drainageway
that convey the constant or intermittent flow of water, including storm run-
off.
   H.   “City engineer” means any person registered to practice professional
engineering by the Iowa State Board of Registration who is designated by the
City to approve portions of proposed subdivisions as specified in these
regulations as requiring an engineer's approval.
   I.   “Common area” means an area held, designed, and designated for common
or cooperative use within a development.
   J.   “Common development” means a development proposed and planned as one
unified project not separated by a public street or alley.
   K.   “Common open space” means an area of land or water or combination
within or related to a development that is not individually owned or dedicated
for public use, designed and generally intended for recreational activities for
the common use of the residents of the development.
   L.   “Compatibility” means the degree to which two or more different land
use types are able to exist together in close proximity, with no one use having
significant negative effects on any other use.
   M.   “Comprehensive development plan” means the duly adopted Comprehensive
Development Plan of the City.
   N.   “Concept plan” means a preliminary presentation that includes the
minimum information necessary, as determined by the Building Official, to be
used for the purpose of discussion or classification of a proposed plat prior
to formal application.
   O.   “Conditional use permit” means an approval of a use with operating or
physical characteristics different from those of permitted uses in a given
zoning district that may, nonetheless, be compatible with those uses under
special conditions and with adequate public review. Conditional uses are
allowed in a zoning district only at the discretion of and with the explicit
permission of the Planning and Zoning Commission as provided by Section 165.09
of this Code.
   P.   “Condominium” means an ownership regime whereby the title to each unit
of occupancy is held in separate ownership, and the real estate on which the
units are located is held in common ownership solely by the owners of the units
with each owner having an undivided interest in the common real estate.
Condominiums may include residential, commercial, office, or industrial uses.
   Q.   “Conservation development” means a development design technique that
concentrates buildings in specific areas on a site to allow remaining land to
be used for recreation, common open space, or the preservation of historically
or environmentally sensitive features.
   R.   “Conservation (or cluster) subdivision” means wholly or in majority, a
residential subdivision that permits a reduction in lot area, setback, or other
site development regulations, provided
      (1)   There is no increase in the overall density permitted for a
conventional subdivision in a given zoning district, and
      (2)   The remaining land area is used for common space.
   S.   “Courtyard” means an open, unoccupied space, bounded on two or more
sides by the walls of the building.
   T.   “Conventional subdivision” means a subdivision that literally meets all
nominal standards of the Unified Land Development Code for lot dimensions,
setbacks, street frontage, and other site development regulations.
   U.   “Covenant” means a written promise or pledge.
   V.   “Creative (or innovative) development or subdivision” means a
subdivision that, while complying with Chapter 175, diverges from nominal
compliance with site development regulations in the Unified Land Development
Code. Creative subdivisions imply a higher level of pre-planning than
conventional subdivisions. They may be employed for the purpose of
environmental protection or the creation of superior community design. Types of
creative subdivisions include water-oriented subdivisions and traditional
neighborhood districts.
   W.   “Cul-de-sac” means a local street with only one outlet and with an
opposite end terminating in a vehicle turnaround.
   X.   “Culvert” means a drainpipe that channels water under a street or
driveway.
   Y.   “Curb” means a vertical or sloping edge of a roadway, intended to
define the edge of the cartway and to channel or control drainage.
4.   Words beginning with D:
   A.   “Dedication” means a grant of land to the City or another public agency
for a public purpose.
   B.   “Density” means the amount of development per specific unit of a site.
   C.   “Design standards” means standards that set forth specific improvement
requirements.
   D.   “Detached” means fully separated from any other building or jointed to
another building in such a manner as not to constitute an enclosed or covered
connection.
   E.   “Detention basin” means an artificial or natural water collection
facility, designed to collect surface or subsurface water and to control its
rate of discharge, in order to prevent a net increase in the rate of water flow
that existed prior to a development.
   F.   “Developer” means the legal owner(s) or authorized agent of any land
included in a proposed development.
   G.   “Development” means a planning or construction project involving
substantial improvement or change in the character or land use of a property.
   H.   “Divided street” means a street with opposing lanes separated by a
median strip, center island, or other form of physical barrier, that cannot be
crossed except at designated locations.
   I.   “Drive-in services” means uses that involve the sale of products or
provision of services to occupants in vehicles.
   J.   “Drainage” means the removal of surface or ground water from land by
drains, grading, or other means.
   K.   “Drainage system” means the system through which water flows from the
land.
   L.   “Driveway” means a permanently paved, surfaced area providing vehicular
access between a street and an off-street parking or loading area.
   M.   “Dwelling unit” means a building consisting of 960 square feet minimum
excluding garage with one or more rooms, designed, occupied, or intended for
occupancy as a separate living quarter, with cooking, sleeping, and sanitary
facilities provided within the dwelling unit for the exclusive use of a single
family, as defined in this section, maintaining a household.
5.   Words beginning with E:
   A.   “Easement” means a privilege or right of use granted on, above, under,
or across a particular tract of land for a specific purpose by one owner to
another owner, public or private agency, or utility.
   B.   “Enclosed” means a roofed or covered space fully surrounded by walls.
   C.   “Engineer” means any person registered to practice professional
engineering by the Iowa State Board of Registration.
6.   Words beginning with F:
   A.   “Family” means one or more persons living together and sharing common
living, sleeping, cooking, and eating facilities within an individual housing
unit, no more than four of whom may be unrelated. The following persons shall
be considered related for the purpose of this ordinance:
      (1)   Legal spouses (including common law) who reside in the same
household.
      (2)   Natural, adoptive, or stepmother or stepfather, and children who
reside in the same household.
      (3)   An individual or a child who lives alone or who resides with a
person, or persons, not legally responsible for the child’s support.
   B.   “Fascia” means a parapet-type wall used as part of the facade of a
flat-roofed building and projecting no more than six feet from the immediately
adjacent building face. Such a wall shall enclose at least three sides of the
projecting flat roof and return to the parapet wall or the building.
   C.   “Final approval” means the final official action of the Council, upon a
recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission, permitting the filing of
a subdivision with the Recorder and the conveyance of individual parcels and
lots to subsequent owners. Final approval follows the completion of detailed
engineering plans, negotiation of subdivision agreements, posting of required
guarantees, and other requirements of this Code.
   D.   “Floor area ratio” means the quotient of gross floor area of all
buildings on a site divided by gross site area of the site.
   E.   “Frontage” means the length of a property line of anyone premises
abutting and parallel to a public street, private way, or court from which
access is permitted.
7.   Words beginning with G:
   A.   “Garage” means an accessory building or portion of a main building used
primarily for storage of motor vehicles.
   B.   “Grade” means the horizontal elevation of the finished surface of
ground, paving, or sidewalk adjacent to any building line.
      (1)   For buildings having walls facing one street only, the grade shall
be the elevation of the ground at the center of the wall facing the street.
      (2)   For buildings having walls facing more than one street, the grade
shall be the average elevation of the grades of all walls facing each street.
      (3)   For buildings having no walls facing a street, the grade shall be
the average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the
exterior walls of the building.
   C.   “Gross floor area” means the total enclosed area of all floors of a
building, measured to the inside surfaces of the exterior walls. This
definition excludes the areas of mechanical equipment rooms, elevator shafts,
airspaces above atriums, and enclosed off-street parking and loading areas
serving a principal use.
1.   8.   Words beginning with H:
   A.   A.   “Height” means measured as the vertical distance from the
established grade to the highest point of a structure. Where a building or
structure is located on a slope, height shall be measured from the average
grade level adjacent to the building or structure.
   B.   B.   “Home based business/home occupation” means an accessory
occupational use conducted entirely within a dwelling unit by its inhabitants,
which is clearly incidental to the residential use of the dwelling unit or
residential structure and does not change the residential character of its
site.
   C.   C.   “Housing unit or dwelling unit” means a building or portion of a
building arranged for and intended for occupancy as an independent living
facility for one family, including permanent provisions for cooking.
9.   Words beginning with I:
   A.   “Impervious coverage” means the total horizontal area of all buildings,
roofed or covered spaces, paved surface areas, walkways and driveways, and any
other site improvements that decrease the ability of the surface of the site to
absorb water, expressed as a percent of site area. The surface water area of
pools is excluded from this definition.
   B.   “Incidental sign” means a sign, generally informational, that has a
purpose secondary to the use of the property on which it is located, such as
“no parking,” “enter,” “exit,” “loading only,” “telephone,” and other similar
directives. No incidental sign shall include the name of any enterprise,
business, person, institution, or product.
10.   Words beginning with J:
11.   Words beginning with K:
12.   Words beginning with L:
   A.   “Landscaped area” means the area within the boundaries of a given lot,
site or common development consisting primarily of plant material, including
but not limited to grass, trees, shrubs, vines, ground cover, and other organic
plant materials; or grass paver masonry units installed such that the
appearance of the area is primarily landscaped.
      (1)   Perimeter landscaped area: Any required landscaped area that
adjoins the exterior boundary of a lot, site or common development.
      (2)   Interior landscaped area: Any landscaped area within a site
exclusive of required perimeter landscaping.
   B.   “Lane” means an approved private right-of-way that provides access to
residential properties and meets at least three of the following conditions:
      (1)   Serves 12 or fewer housing units or platted lots.
      (2)   Does not function as a local street because of its alignment,
design, or location.
      (3)   Is completely internal to a development.
      (4)   Does not exceed 600 feet in length.
   C.   “Loading area” means an off-street area used for the loading or
unloading of goods from a vehicle in connection with the use of the site on
which such area is located.
   D.   “Lot” means a parcel of property with a separate and distinct number or
other identifying designation that has been created, assigned, and recorded in
the Office of the Recorder. Each individual lot is subject to the provisions of
a particular base zoning district, and shall have a minimum frontage of 20
feet, except as provided in an approved Planned Unit Development, Water
Oriented Development, or Traditional Neighborhood Development.
      (1)   Common development lot: When two or more contiguous lots are
developed as part of a single development, these lots may be considered a
single lot for purposes of this code.
      (2)   Corner lot: A lot located at the junction of at least two streets,
private ways or courts or at least two segments of a curved street, private way
or court, at which the angle of intersection is no greater than 135 degrees.
      (3)   Double frontage lot: A lot, other than a corner lot, having
frontage on two streets, private ways or courts. Primary access shall be
restricted on a double frontage lot to the minor of the two streets or to the
front line as determined at time of platting or as defined by this chapter.
(Also known as a through lot.)
      (4)   Interior lot: A lot other than a corner lot or double frontage lot.
      (5)   Out lot: Property shown on a subdivision plat outside of the
boundaries of the land which is to be developed and which is to be excluded
from the development of the subdivision.
   E.   “Lot area” means the total horizontal area within the lot lines of a
lot.
   F.   “Lot depth” means the mean horizontal distance measured between the
front and rear lot lines.
   G.   “Lot frontage” means the front of a lot shall be construed to be the
portion nearest the street. For the purposes of determining yard requirements
on corner lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall
be considered frontage, and yards shall be provided as indicated under yards in
this section.
   H.   “Lot line” means a property boundary line(s) of record that divides one
lot from another lot or a lot from the public or private street right-of-way or
easement. Once established, lot lines may not be redefined due to a change of
address that would result in a new definition of the prior defined lot lines.
      (1)   Front lot line: The lot line separating a lot and a public or
private street right-of-way or easement.
         a.   For an interior lot, the lot line separating the lot from the
right-of-way or easement.
         b.   For a corner lot, the shorter lot line abutting a public or
private street or easement. In instances of equal line dimension, the front lot
line shall be determined by the Building Official, or as may be noted on the
final plat.
         c.   For a double frontage lot, the lot lines separating the lot from
the right-of-way or easement of the more minor street. In cases where each
street has the same classification, the front lot line shall be determined by
the Building Official at the time of application for the original Building
Permit for the lot, or as may be noted on the final plat.
      (2)   Rear lot line: The lot line that is opposite and most distant from
the front line.
      (3)   Side lot line: Any lot line that is neither a front or rear lot
line. A side lot line separating a lot from a street, private way, or court is
a street side lot line. A side lot line separating a lot from another lot or
lots is an interior side lot line.
   I.   “Lot width” means the distance between straight lines connecting front
and rear lot lines at each side of the lot, measured across the rear of the
required front yard, provided, however, that width between side lot lines at
their foremost points where they intersect with the street line, shall not be
less than 80 percent of the required lot width except in the case of lots on
the turning circle of cul-de-sacs, or on loop streets, where the 80 percent
requirement shall not apply.
13.   Words beginning with M:
   A.   “Main” means the principal artery of a system of continuous piping that
conveys fluids and to which branches may be connected.
   B.   “Major subdivision” means any subdivision not defined and approved as a
minor subdivision.
   C.   “Manufactured home” means a factory built structure, which is
manufactured or constructed under the authority of 42 U.S.C. Section 5403 and
is to be used as a place for human habitation, but which is not constructed or
equipped with a permanent hitch or other device allowing it to be moved other
than for the purpose of moving to a permanent site, and which does not have
permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles.
   D.   “Manufactured home dwelling” means a factory built single-family
dwelling or structure that is to be used as a place for human habitation, that
is manufactured or constructed under the authority of 42 U.S. 3. Sec. 5403,
Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards promulgated by the
US Department of Housing and Urban Development, and that is not constructed or
equipped with a permanent hitch or other device allowing it to be moved other
than to a permanent site; does not have permanently attached to its body or
frame any wheels or axles, and that complies with the following architectural
and aesthetic standards listed below. For the purpose of any of these
regulations, manufactured homes shall be considered the same as a single-family
detached dwelling. In common with single-family detached dwellings, a
manufactured home dwelling unit shall have the following characteristics:
      (1)   The home shall have at least 960 square feet of floor area;
      (2)   The home shall have an exterior width of at least 24 feet;
      (3)   The roof shall be pitched with a maximum vertical rise of four
inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run;
      (4)   The exterior material is of a color, material, and scale comparable
with those existing in the residential site on which the manufactured home
dwelling is being permanently installed;
      (5)   The home shall have a non-reflective roof material that is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile, or rock;
      (6)   Permanent utility connections shall be installed in accordance with
local regulations;
      (7)   The home shall have all wheels, axles, transporting lights, and
towing apparatus removed; and
      (8)   The home shall be installed upon a permanent foundation that is
constructed of concrete at least 42 inches deep and 12 inches wide and built in
accordance with local regulations.
      (9)   The home is classified as real property for the purpose of property
tax assessment.
   E.   “Minor subdivision” means a subdivision of land that creates no more
than four lots from any single parcel of land; requires no extensions of
streets, sewers, utilities, or other municipal facilities; no dedication of
easements or rights-of-way or annexation; complies with all pre-existing zoning
requirements; and has not been subject to a previous administrative or minor
subdivision.
   F.   “Mixed use building” means a building or structure that incorporates
two or more use types within a single building or structure, provided that each
use type is permitted within the individual base zoning district in which the
building or structure is to be located.
   G.   “Mixed use development” means a single development that incorporates
complementary land use types into a single development.
   H.   “Mobile homes” means a building type designed to be transportable in
one or more sections, constructed on a permanent chassis or undercarriage, and
designed to be used as a dwelling unit or other use with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities, but not bearing a seal
attesting to the approval and issuance of the Iowa Department of Health or
conformance to the manufactured home procedural and enforcement regulations, as
adopted by the US Department of Housing and Urban Development; or not otherwise
satisfying the definition of manufactured home dwellings.
   I.   “Mobile home park” means a unified development under single ownership,
developed, subdivided, planned, and improved for the placement of mobile home
units for non-transient use. Mobile home parks include common areas and
facilities for management, recreation, laundry, utility services, storage,
storm shelter, and other services; but do not include mobile home sales lots on
which unoccupied mobile homes are parked for the purposes of display,
inspection, sale, or storage.
   J.   “Mobile home subdivision” means a development subdivided, planned, and
improved for the placement of mobile home units on lots for uses by the
individual owners of such lots. Mobile home subdivisions may include common
areas and facilities for management, recreation, laundry, utility services,
storage, storm shelter, and other services; but do not include mobile home
sales lots on which unoccupied mobile homes are parked for the purpose of
display, inspection, sale, or storage.
   K.   “Monument” means an identification marker established by a registered
land surveyor at each section corner, block corner, lot corner, or other point
as required by this section.
   L.   “Moving lane” means any traffic lane within a cartway where traffic
movement is the primary or sole function.
14.   Words beginning with N:
   A.   “Nonconforming development” means a building, structure, or improvement
that does not comply with the regulations for its zoning district set forth by
this Unified Land Development Code but which complied with applicable
regulations at the time of construction.
   B.   “Nonconforming lot” means a lot that was lawful prior to the adoption,
revision, or amendment of this Unified Land Development Code but that fails by
reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present
requirements of the Unified Land Development Code. No action can be taken that
would increase the nonconforming characteristics of the lot.
   C.   “Nonconforming sign” means a sign that was legally erected prior to the
adoption, revision, or amendment of this Unified Land Development Code but that
fails by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the
present requirements of this Unified Land Development Code.
   D.   “Nonconforming structure” means a structure that was lawful prior to
the adoption, revision, or amendment of this Unified Land Development Code but
that fails by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the
present requirements of the Unified Land Development Code. No action can be
taken that would increase the nonconforming characteristics of the structure.
   E.   “Nonconforming use” means a land use that was lawful prior to the
adoption, revision, or amendment of this Unified Land Development Code but that
fails by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the
present requirements of the Unified Land Development Code. No action can be
taken that would increase the non-conforming characteristics of the land use.
   F.   “Nuisance” means an unreasonable and continuous invasion of the use and
enjoyment of a property right that a reasonable person would find annoying,
unpleasant, obnoxious, or offensive.
15.   Words beginning with O:
   A.   “Off-site” means located outside the boundaries of the parcel that is
the subject of an application.
   B.   “Open space” means area included on any site or lot that is open and
unobstructed to the sky, except for allowed projections of cornices, overhangs,
porches, balconies, or plant materials.
   C.   “Outdoor storage” means the storage of materials, parts, or products
that are related to the primary use of a site for a period exceeding three
days.
   D.   “Overlay district” means a district established by this code to
prescribe special regulations to be applied to a site only in combination with
a base district.
   E.   “Owner” means an individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
or corporation having sufficient proprietary interest to seek development of
land.
16.   Words beginning with P:
   A.   “Parcel split” means a subdivision of a lot or parcel of land into no
more than two lots or parcels and does not include new public or private
streets, the extension of any public facilities, or the creation of any public
improvements.
   B.   “Parking facility” means an area on a lot or within a building,
including one or more parking spaces, along with provision for access
circulation, maneuvering, and landscaping, meeting the requirements of this
Unified Land Development Code. Parking facilities include parking lots, private
garages, and parking structures. Vehicle storage is a use distinct from
parking. Vehicle storage is also governed by applicable provisions of Section
170, Parking Regulations.
   C.   “Parking lane” means a lane located on the sides of streets, designated
or allowing on-street parking of motor vehicles.
   D.   “Parking spaces” means an area on a lot or within a building, intended
for the use of temporary parking of a personal vehicle. This term is used
interchangeably with “parking stall”. Each parking space must have a means of
access to a public street. Tandem parking stalls in single-family detached,
single-family attached, and townhome residential uses shall be considered to
have a means of access to a public street. Size, location and construction of
parking spaces are covered by applicable provisions of Section 170, Parking
Restrictions.
   E.   “Paved” means permanently surfaced with poured concrete, concrete
pavers, or asphalt.
   F.   “Performance bond” means a surety bond or cash deposit posted by a
contractor or developer made out to the City in an amount equal to the full
cost of the improvements. The bond amount shall be that of the contract price
and shall be legally sufficient to secure to the City that said improvements
will be constructed in accordance with the terms of the contract documents
within a period specified by this code.
   G.   “Permanent swimming pool” means any artificial basin of water, intended
for swimming, recreational bathing or wading, which remains in place or
otherwise not removed throughout the year. Additionally, any swimming pool
located on a property before May 1 or after October 1 of any year shall be
considered a permanent swimming pool. In addition, any similar artificial basin
of water that is designed to use a filter or pump, whether actually used or
not.
   H.   “Permitted use” means a land use type allowed as a matter of right in a
zoning district, subject only to special requirements of this Unified Land
Development Code.
   I.   “Planning board” means the Planning and Zoning Commission as
established in Chapter 23.
   J.   “Planned unit development” (PUD) means a development of land that is
under unified control and is planned and developed as a whole in a single
development operation or programmed series of development stages. The
development may include streets, circulation ways, utilities, buildings, open
spaces, and other site features and improvements.
   K.   “Plat” means a document, usually a map or maps, expressing the
designation or division of land into one or more lots or parcels, any one of
which is 10 acres or less. Plats include preliminary and final plats.
      (1)   Preliminary Plat: A plat indicating the proposed layout of a
development and related information, intended for the purpose of preliminary
approval by approving authorities but not for filing with the County Recorder.
      (2)   Final Plat: The final map of the subdivision that is presented for
final approval. The final plat contains detailed information and documentation
and is designed to be filed with the County Recorder.
   L.   “Pole buildings” means a structure with wooden or metal poles as main
supports, without a continuing permanent foundation, with studs which are
greater than 16 inches off of center, and with siding made of metal or wood
material.
   M.   “Porch, unenclosed” means a roofed or unroofed open structure
projecting from an exterior wall of a building and having no enclosed features
more than 30 inches above its floor other than wire screening and a roof with
supporting structures.
   N.   “Portable wading pool” means any temporary artificial basin of water
intended for recreational bathing or wading that contains water at a depth of
18 inches to 24 inches.
   O.   “Premises” means a lot, parcel, tract, or plot of land, contiguous and
under common ownership or control, together with the buildings and structure
thereon.
   P.   “Principal use” means the main use of land or structures as
distinguished from an accessory use.
   Q.   “Private garage” means a building for the storage of motor vehicles
where no repair service facilities are maintained and where no motor vehicles
are kept for rental or sale.
   R.   “Property line” see “lot line.”
   S.   “Property line adjustment” means a subdivision of one or more lots or
parcels, which when adjusted creates no additional lots or parcels.
   T.   “Public way” means an alley, avenue, boulevard, bridge, channel, ditch,
easement, expressway, freeway, highway, land, parkway, right-of-way, road,
sidewalk, street, subway, tunnel, viaduct, walk, or other ways in which the
general public or a public entity have a right, or which are dedicated, whether
improved or not.
17.   Words beginning with O:
18.   Words beginning with R:
   A.   “Reclamation” means the process or industry of obtaining useful
materials from durable consumer goods waste products primarily through the use
of sensor-based sorting equipment and other advancing technologies in the
reclamation industry to process, identify, and sort recoverable materials.
   B.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle towed or self-propelled on its
own chassis or attached to the chassis of another vehicle and designed or used
for a temporary dwelling, recreational, or sporting purposes. Recreational
vehicles include, but are not limited to, travel trailers; campers; motor coach
homes; converted buses and trucks, boats, and boat trailers.
   C.   “Regulation” means a specific requirement set forth by this Unified
Land Development Code that must be followed.
   D.   “Remote parking” means a supply of off-street parking at a location not
on the site of a given development.
   E.   “Right-of-way” means a strip of land, generally linear, occupied or
intended to be occupied by a system that conveys people, traffic, fluids,
utilities, or energy from one point to another. Rights-of-way may include
streets and roads, crosswalks, bicycle paths, recreational trails, railroads or
fixed guideway transit, electric transmission lines, gas pipelines, water
mains, or sewer mains.
19.   Words beginning with S:
   A.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer that conducts sanitary wastes from a
point of origin to a treatment or disposal facility that meets the minimum
requirements of the Iowa Department of Natural Resources. In developing areas,
sanitary sewers normally include interceptor, outfall, and lateral sewers.
      (1)   Interceptor: A sanitary sewer that serves as a trunk, collecting
sewage generated by a number of individual developments.
      (2)   Outfall: A sanitary sewer that may be developed to connect an
individual subdivision or development to an interceptor sewer.
      (3)   Local: A pipe that connects lateral sewers to an outfall or
interceptor sewer.
      (4)   Lateral: A private service line connecting buildings or groups of
buildings to local sewers.
   B.   “Screened from public view” means not visible to the extent possible,
at any distance, from adjoining properties or any street right-of-way.
   C.   “Screening” means the method by which a view of one site from another
adjacent site is shielded, concealed, or hidden. Screening techniques include
fences, walls, hedges, berms, or other features as may be permitted by the
landscape provisions of this Code.
   D.   “Setback” means the distance, as required by the minimum setback(s),
which establishes the horizontal component(s) of the building envelope. The
outer edges of the eaves and anything attached that is 39 inches or higher
should be considered as part of the building structure and should be included
when calculating the setback.
   E.   “Sidewalk” means a paved path, four feet or more in width, provided for
pedestrian use, usually located at the side of and detached from a road, but
within the right-of-way.
   F.   “Sign” means a symbolic, visual device fixed upon a building, vehicle,
structure, or parcel of land, which is intended to convey information about a
product, business, activity, place, person, institution, candidate, or
political idea.
   G.   “Site” means the parcel of land to be developed or built upon. A site
may encompass a single lot; or a group of lots developed as a common
development under the special and overlay districts provisions of this Code.
   H.   “Site plan” means a plan, prepared to scale, showing accurately and
with complete dimensioning, the boundaries of a site and the location of all
buildings, structures, uses, and principal site development features proposed
for a specific parcel of land; and any other information that may be reasonably
requested by the City in order that an informed decision can be made on the
associated request.
   I.   “Stormsewer” means a conduit that conducts storm drainage from a
development or subdivision, ultimately to a drainageway or stream.
   J.   “Story” means the portion of a building included between the surface of
any main floor and the surface of the next floor above it; if there is no floor
above it, the space between such floor and the next ceiling above it. A half
story is a story under a sloped roof, the wall heights of which on at least two
opposite, exterior walls are less than four feet. A basement should not be
considered a story. This definition does not pertain to the R-1, R-2, or R/CC
zoning districts.
   K.   “Street” means a right-of-way, dedicated to public use, which affords a
primary means of access to the abutting property. This definition is intended
to be inclusive of the term as defined in the Code of Iowa. Streets may be
categorized in a hierarchy or conceptual arrangement of streets based on
function. The hierarchical approach classifies streets from courts or lanes,
which provide private access to a limited number of lots, to arterials, which
accommodate large volumes of high-speed, regional traffic. Street types
contained within the hierarchy include:
      (1)   Court or Lane.
      (2)   Local.
      (3)   Collector.
      (4)   Minor Arterial.
      (5)   Major Arterial.
   L.   “Street, arterial” means streets or highways intended to provide for
through traffic movement between areas of the City or across the City. Major
arterials usually imply relatively high speeds and traffic volumes and are
often subject to control of access to individual properties. Minor arterials
are generally intended to provide trips of moderate lengths and imply lower
operating speeds and more frequent points of local access than major arterial
streets.
   M.   “Street, collector” means a street connecting neighborhoods within the
same communities, designed to carry traffic from local to arterial streets.
   N.   “Street, frontage” means a local or collector street, parallel and
adjacent to an arterial or collector street, providing access to abutting
properties and protection from arterial or collector streets.
   O.   “Street, intersecting and principal” means in regard to a site, the
principal street shall be the street to which the majority of lots on a block
face are oriented; the intersecting street shall be a street other than a
principal street.
   P.   “Street, local” means a street that is used primarily for access to the
abutting properties.
   Q.   “Street, loop” means a type of local street, each end of which
terminates at an intersection with the same arterial or collector street or
other local street and whose principal radius points of the 180-degree system
of turns are not more than 1,000 feet from said arterial or collector street,
nor normally more than 600 feet from each other.
   R.   “Street, major” means a street carrying traffic between neighborhoods,
connecting neighborhoods with major activity centers, or accommodating major
through-traffic. Major streets are designated as collectors, arterials, or
expressways by the Comprehensive Development Plan.
   S.   “Structure” means any object constructed or built and attached or
anchored permanently or semi permanently to the ground in such a way as to
prevent routine movement.
   T.   “Subdivision” means the division of any tract of land into three or
more parcels if the original tract is 40 acres or less. The division of land
into three or more parcels, regardless of its original size, if any of the new
parcels created are less than 40 acres in size. The improvement of one or more
parcels of land for residential, commercial, or industrial structures or groups
of structures involving the division or allocation of land for the opening,
widening, or extension of any street or streets except private streets serving
industrial structures, the division or allocation of land as open spaces for
common use by owners, occupants, or lease holders, or as easements for the
extension and maintenance of public sewer, water, storm drainage, or other
public facilities.
   U.   “Subdivision improvements” means street pavement or resurfacing, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, waterlines, sewer lines, storm drains, street lights, flood
control and drainage facilities, utility lines, landscaping, and other related
matters normally associated with the development of raw land into building
sites.
   V.   “Surveyor” means any person registered to practice surveying by the
Iowa State Board of Registration.
   W.   “Swimming pool” means any structure intended for swimming, recreational
bathing or wading that contains water over 24 inches deep.
20.   Words beginning with T:
   A.   “Temporary swimming pool” means all swimming pools that do not meet the
criteria as “permanent” shall be considered temporary.
   B.   “Townhouse” means a dwelling unit having a common wall with or abutting
one or more adjacent dwelling units in a townhouse structure, with its own
front and rear access to the outside, and neither above nor below any other
dwelling unit.
   C.   “Townhouse structure” means a building formed by at least two and not
more than 12 contiguous townhouses with common or abutting walls.
   D.   “Transportation plan” means part of the comprehensive plan adopted by
the Council indicating the general location recommended for arterial,
collector, and local thoroughfares within the planning jurisdiction of the
City.
21.   Words beginning with U:
   A.   “Use” means the conduct of an activity, or the performance of a
function or operation, on a site or in a building or facility.
   B.   “Utilities” means installations, either above or below ground,
necessary for the production, generation, transmission, delivery, collection,
treatments, or storage of water, solid or fluid wastes, stormwater, energy
media, gas, electronic or electromagnetic signals, or other services which are
precedent to development and use of land.
22.   Words beginning with V:
   A.   “Variance” means a variance is a relaxation of the terms of the Unified
Land Development Code where such variance will not be contrary to the public
interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the
result of the actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the code would
result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
   B.   “Vicinity map” means a drawing located on the plat which sets forth by
dimensions or other means, the relationship of the proposed subdivision or use
to other nearby developments or landmarks and community facilities and services
within the City in order to better locate and orient the area in question. Also
called a location map.
23.   Words beginning with W:
   A.   “Water system” means a system which provides for the supply, and
distribution of potable water on an uninterrupted basis and which is in public
ownership.
24.   Words beginning with X:
25.   Words beginning with Y:
   A.   “Yard required” means that portion of a lot that lies between a lot
line and the corresponding building setback line or the required landscape
area. This area shall be unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward
except as may be specifically provided for or required by this Code.
      (1)   Front Yard: The space extending the full width of a lot, lying
between the front lot line and the front setback line. For a corner lot, the
front yard shall normally be defined as that yard along a street that meets one
of the following two criteria:
         a.   The yard along the blockface to which a greater number of
structures are oriented; or
         b.   The yard along a street that has the smaller horizontal
dimension.
      (2)   Rear Yard: The space extending the full width of a lot, lying
between the rear lot line and the rear setback line.
      (3)   Side Yard: The space extending the depth of a lot from the front to
rear lot lines, lying between the side yard setback line and the interior lot
line.
      (4)   Street Side Yard: On a corner lot, the space extending from the
front yard to the rear yard, between the street side yard setback line and the
street side lot line.
26.   Words beginning with Z:
   A.   “Zoning district” means a designated specified land classification,
within which all sites are subject to a unified group of use and site
development regulations set forth in this Unified Land Development Code.
165.08   SITE PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURE.
1.   Plan Review. All required plans and specifications for residential, multi-
family, commercial, industrial, and manufacturing building projects shall be
reviewed by the Building Official for completeness and compliance. Except for
residential projects, (single and two-family structures) the Building Official
or their designee will forward these plans and specifications on to other City
departments or personnel to determine whether or not such plans and
specifications are in compliance with the laws and ordinances under their
jurisdictions.
2.   Multi-Family, Commercial, Industrial, and Manufacturing Building Project
Plans and Specifications Reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission. The
Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the plans and specifications for
multi-family, commercial, industrial and manufacturing building projects before
the Building Official approves the Building Permit. Included in this class of
construction are all proposed tenant-finished projects, residential
subdivisions, and multi-family dwellings of more than three units. Within 30
days of receiving the Building Official’s report, checklist and complete plans
(approved by the City Engineer or other licensed firm, if appropriate, and by
all appropriate City departments), the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
convene to review the proposed plans and specifications and make its
recommendations. Recommendations by the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be
considered by the Building Official before approval.
3.   No Building Permits are to be issued by the Building Official until the
final plat for the subdivision has been approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and Council.
   A.   Purpose. The site plan review procedure provides for the administrative
review in addition to plan review required by other sections of the Unified
Land Development Code and the City Code of Ordinances of projects that have
potentially significant effects on traffic circulation or a significant effect
on land uses in adjacent neighborhoods. The procedure provides for review and
evaluation of site development features and possible mitigation of unfavorable
effects on surrounding property.
   B.   Administration. The Building Official, or their designee, shall review,
evaluate, and act on all site plans submitted pursuant to this procedure. An
applicant may appeal a denial of any application to the Council.
   C.   Uses Requiring Site Plan Review. All uses indicated as subject to site
plan review in Section 165.15 are subject to the provisions of this section,
unless otherwise subject to a Conditional Use Permit procedure for specific
zoning districts.
   D.   Application Requirements. An application for a site plan review may be
filed by the owner(s) of a property or the owners' authorized agent with the
Building Official. The application shall include the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant.
      (2)   Owner, address, and legal description of the property.
      (3)   A description of the nature and operating characteristics of the
proposed use.
      (4)   A site plan, drawn to a scale sufficient to permit adequate review
and dimensioned as necessary, showing the following information:
         a.   The date, scale, north point, title, name of owner, and name of
person preparing the site plan.
         b.   The location and dimensions of boundary lines, easements, and
required yards and setbacks of existing and proposed buildings and site
improvements.
         c.   The location, size, and use of proposed and existing structures
on the site.
         d.   The location of all proposed site improvements, including parking
and loading areas, pedestrian and vehicular access, sewers, sidewalks,
utilities, service areas, fencing, screening, landscaping, and lighting.
         e.   Location of any major site feature, including drainage and
contours at no greater than five-foot intervals.
         f.   Any other information that may be required for review by the
Building Official or their designee.
   E.   Administrative Action and Appeal. The Building Official, or their
designee, must act upon each complete application within 10 working days of
filing. An applicant may appeal a denial to the Board of Adjustment within 10
days of the action. The Board of Adjustment shall consider the appeal at the
first available meeting after the filing of the appeal.
   F.   Review and Evaluation.
      (1)   The Building Official or their designee, (or the Board of
Adjustment in cases of appeal), shall review and approve the site plan based on
the criteria established in Section 165.15 and conformance with applicable
regulations in these Zoning Regulations.
      (2)   The Building Official, or their designee (or the Board of
Adjustment in cases of appeal), shall make the following findings before
approval of the site plan:
         a.   The proposed development, together with any necessary
modifications, is compatible with the criteria established in Section 165.15.
         b.   Any required modifications to the site plan are reasonable and
are the minimum necessary to minimize potentially unfavorable effects.
         c.   The site plan conforms to the Zoning Regulations.
   G.   Modification of Site Plan. The Building Official, or their designee (or
the Board of Adjustment in cases of appeal), may require modification of a site
plan as a prerequisite for approval. Required modifications may be more
restrictive than base district regulations and may include, but not be limited
to, additional landscaping or screening; installation of erosion control
measures; improvement of access or circulation; rearrangement of structures on
the site; or other modifications deemed necessary to protect the public health,
safety, welfare, community character, property values, or aesthetics.
   H.   Term and Modification of Approval.
      (1)   A site plan approval shall become void two years after the date of
approval, unless the applicant receives a Building Permit and diligently
carries out development prior to the expiration of this period.
      (2)   The Building Official, or their designee, may approve an
application to modify a previously approved site plan if they determine that
the modification does not affect findings related to the criteria set forth in
Section 165.15.
      (3)   The Building Official, or their designee, may revoke a site plan
approval if they determine that the development is not complying with the terms
and conditions of the approval. Such revocation may be appealed to the Board of
Adjustment.
165.09   CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
1.   Purpose. The conditional use permit procedure provides for Planning and
Zoning Commission review and approval of uses within zoning districts that have
unusual site development or operating characteristics that could adversely
affect surrounding properties. Denials may be appealed to the Council.
2.   Administration. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review, evaluate,
and act upon all applications submitted pursuant to this procedure. The
Planning and Zoning Commission, following proper notice, shall hold a public
hearing on each conditional use permit application and, following such public
hearing, shall act on the application. Before approval of any conditional use
permit, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the conformity of the
proposal with the criteria set forth in Section 165.15. The Planning and Zoning
Commission may approve or disapprove the conditional permit as submitted or,
before approval, may require that the applicant modify, alter, adjust, or amend
the proposal as the Planning and Zoning Commission deems necessary to the end
that it preserves the intent and purpose of this title to promote public
health, safety and the general welfare.
3.   Application Requirements. An application for a conditional use permit may
be filed with the Building Official by the owner(s) of a property or the
owners’ authorized agent. Applications for a conditional use permit under the
terms of this section shall be accompanied by evidence concerning the
feasibility of the proposed request and its effect on surrounding property and
shall include a detailed site plan containing all requirements for site plan
review set forth under Chapter 175.
4.   Criteria for Review. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review and
act upon the request based on the criteria established in Section 165.15 and
conformance with applicable regulations in this Unified Land Development Code.
5.   Scope of Planning and Zoning Commission’s Approval.
   A.   The Planning and Zoning Commission may, at its discretion, apply a
conditional use permit to a specific owner or applicant. The Planning and
Zoning Commission may establish special site development or operational
regulations as a condition for approval of a conditional use permit.
   B.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall not grant a conditional use
permit for any home occupation/home­ based business that is otherwise
prohibited under Section 167.10 of this Code.
6.   Change in Approved Conditional Use Permits. In the event a conditional
permit is granted under the terms of this section, any change thereafter in the
approved use or site plan shall be resubmitted and considered in the same
manner as the original proposal.
7.   Lapse and Revocation of Permit.
   A.   A conditional use permit shall become void two years after its
effective date if the applicant has not carried out development or occupancy
during that period, or sooner, if so conditioned by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   B.   The Planning and Zoning Commission may revoke a conditional use permit
should the operation of the use subject to such permit violate the conditions
under which the permit was granted.
8.   Previously Approved Permits. Any conditional use approved under
regulations in effect before the effective date of this code shall be
considered to have a valid conditional use permit, subject to requirements
imposed at the time of its approval.
9.   Appeals.
   A.   Actions taken by the Planning and Zoning Commission subject to this
section may be appealed to the Council. The appealing party shall file a
written request for an appeal with the Clerk, stating the reasons for the
appeal and the areas of difference with the decision of the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   B.   Appeals to the Council may be filed by the applicant in the event of a
denial of the permit application or by a notarized petition signed by a minimum
of 50 percent of the owners of property within 200 feet of the location of the
proposed permit.
   C.   The Council shall consider the appeal at the soonest practical meeting
that is at least two weeks from the date of the filing of the appeal.
165.10   AMENDMENT PROCEDURE.
1.   Purpose. The amendment procedures describe the methods by which changes
may be made in the text of the Unified Land Development Code (text amendment)
and the official boundaries of zoning districts (rezoning).
2.   Initiation of Amendments.
   A.   Text amendments may be initiated by the Planning and Zoning Commission
or Council.
   B.   Rezoning may be initiated by a property owner or authorized agent; the
Planning and Zoning Commission; or the Council.
3.   Rezoning Application Requirements. An application for a rezoning may be
filed with the Building Official, the Clerk, or a designee for either office
holder. The application shall include the following information:
   A.   Name and address of the applicant.
   B.   Owner, address and legal description of the property.
   C.   A description of the reason for the rezoning application and the nature
and operating characteristics of the proposed use.
   D.   Any graphic information, including site plans, elevations, other
drawings, or other materials determined by the Building Official to be
necessary to describe the proposed use to the Planning and Zoning Commission or
the Council.
4.   Amendment Process.
   A.   If the amendment was initiated by the Council or by a property owner
(or authorized agent), the Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider the
request and return its recommendation in writing to the Council within 60 days.
Upon request of the Planning and Zoning Commission to the Council, the Planning
and Zoning Commission shall have an additional 30 days to return its
recommendation.
   B.   The Planning and Zoning Commission, following a minimum of 10 days
notice and publication, shall hold a public hearing on each proposed text or
rezoning and, following such public hearing, shall recommend action to the
Council.
   C.   The Council, after publication and public hearing, shall act on the
proposed amendment. A simple majority vote of those members either elected or
appointed to the Council is required for approval.
5.   Required Notice and Publication. Prior to consideration of amending,
supplementing, changing, modifying, or repealing this Code by the governing
body, notice of public hearings shall be provided by:
   A.   Notice By Posted Sign. A notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place
on or near the property upon which action is pending. Such notice shall be not
less than 18 inches in height and 24 inches in width with a white background
and black letters not less than one and one-half inches in height. Such posted
notice shall be so placed upon such premises that is easily visible from the
street and shall be so posted at least 10 days before the date of such hearing.
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, mutilate, destroy or change such
posted notice prior to such hearing.
   B.   In addition, notice of public hearing shall also be provided by at
least one of the following methods:
      (1)   Publication. At least 10 days before the date of hearing, the Clerk
shall have published in a newspaper having a general circulation in the City a
notice of the time, place and subject matter of such hearing.
      (2)   Notification by Mail. At least 10 days prior to the date of
hearing, the party initiating the rezoning request shall present the Clerk an
address list of those persons who own property within 300 feet of the subject
site. The Clerk shall mail notice of the time, place and subject matter of the
hearing to such property owners at least 10 days prior to the date of the
hearing.
165.11   BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
1.   Administration and Enforcement.
   A.   The Building Official shall administer and enforce this Unified Land
Development Code. The Council may direct other persons to assist them.
   B.   If the Building Official, or their designee shall find that any of the
provisions of this Code are being violated, they shall notify in writing the
person responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation
and ordering the action necessary to correct it. They shall order
discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or structures; removal of
illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions, alterations, or
structural changes; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall
take any other action authorized by this Code or to ensure compliance with or
to prevent violation of its provisions.
2.   Building Permits Required. No building or other structure shall be
erected, moved, added to, or structurally altered without a permit therefore,
issued by the Building Official. No Building Permit shall be issued by the
Building Official except in conformity with the provisions of this Code, unless
they receive a written order from the Board of Adjustment in the form of an
administrative review, special exception, or variance as provided by this Code.
   A.   Asphalt and Concrete Installation. No asphalt or concrete shall be
poured or installed on any lot in the City without there first being a permit
issued for such work. The permit application must be signed by the property
owner, shall include a description of the area of property to be covered by the
asphalt or concrete, and shall state when said work is to be completed. If any
part of the City right-of-way is to be covered by the project, said portion
covering the City right-of-way shall be covered by concrete only and not by
asphalt.
   B.   Dirt Hauling.† 1
Also see Chapter 156, Dirt Hauling Regulations.13 It shall be unlawful for any
person except authorized City employees or persons contracted by the City to
haul, or authorize to be hauled, any earth in excess of 10 cubic yards over,
across, or along any paved street or alley in the City without a permit from
the Building Official in accordance with Chapter 156
3.   Application for Building Permit.
   A.   All applications for Building Permits shall include plans if applicable
in duplicate drawn to an appropriate scale, showing the actual dimensions and
shape of the lot to be built upon; the exact sizes and locations on the lot of
buildings already existing, if any; and the location and dimensions of the
proposed building or alteration.
   B.   The application shall include such other information as lawfully may be
required by the Building Official, including existing or proposed building or
alterations; existing or proposed uses of the building and land; the number of
families, housekeeping units, or rental units the building is designed to
accommodate; conditions existing on the lot; and such other matters as may be
necessary to determine conformance with, and provide for the enforcement of
this Code.
   C.   One copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the
Building Official, after they shall have marked such copy either as approved or
disapproved and attested to same by their signature on such copy. One copy of
the plans, similarly marked, shall be retained by the Building Official.
4.   Posting of Building Permits. A Building Permit shall be posted by the
applicant on the property in question at least five days prior to the start of
construction. It shall be placed so that it is readable from the public street
and shall remain in place during the construction period. If a Building Permit
is not obtained and properly posted prior to construction, construction must
cease until such a permit is granted. The usual permit fee will be doubled, and
other penalties may be levied. Construction may resume following the required
10-day posting of the Building Permit.
5.   Certificates of Occupancy for New, Altered, or Non-Conforming Uses. It
shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any
building or premises, or both, or part thereof hereafter created, erected,
changed, converted, or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in its use or
structure until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued therefore by
the Building Official stating that the proposed use of the building or land
conforms to the requirements of this Code.
6.   Expiration of Building Permit. Every permit issued by the Building
Official under the provisions of this chapter shall expire by limitation and
become null and void, if the building or work authorized by such permit is not
commenced within 30 days from the date of such permit, or if the building or
work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after the
work is commenced for a period of 60 days. If the work described in any
Building Permit for a newly constructed structure which is to be inhabited has
not been substantially completed within one year after the date of the issuance
thereof, or if the work described in any Building Permit which does not involve
living quarters or to be inhabited has not been completed within six months,
said permit shall expire and be canceled by the Building Official and written
notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected, together with notice
that further work as described in the canceled permit shall not proceed unless
or until a new Building Permit has been obtained. An extension of time may be
granted only under unusual circumstances beyond the permit’s expiration date at
the discretion of the Building Official. Before such work can be re-commenced,
a new permit shall be first obtained, and the fee therefore shall be equal to a
structural permit, provided no changes have been made or will be made in the
original plans and specifications for such work. The expiration date of a
Building Permit may be established for a period longer than one year if
established at the time that such permit is issued by the City.
7.   Construction and Use to be as Provided in Applications, Plans, Permits,
and Certificates of Zoning Compliance. Building permits or certificates of
zoning compliance issued on the basis of plans and applications approved by the
Building Official authorize only the use, arrangement and construction set
forth in such approved plans and applications, and no other use, arrangement or
construction. Use, arrangement or construction at variance with that authorized
shall be deemed a violation of this Code, and punishable as provided by this
section.
 
Notes
1 † EDITOR’S NOTE.
165.12   SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES, AND EXPENSES.
1.   The Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges, and expenses and
a collection procedure for Building Permits, certificates of zoning compliance,
appeals, and other matters pertaining to this Code by resolution.
2.   The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the Clerk and may be
altered or amended only by the Council.
3.   Until all applicable fees, charges, and expenses have been paid in full,
no action shall be taken on any application or appeal.
165.13   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
1.   Creation, Terms, Meetings, Rules. A Board of Zoning Adjustment is hereby
created and shall be known as the Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment
shall consist of five members appointed by the Council for a term of five
years, excepting when the Board shall first be created one member shall be
appointed for a term of five years, one for a term of four years, one for a
term of three years, one for a term of two years, and one for a term of one
year. Members shall be removable for cause by the appointing authority upon
written charges and after public hearing. Vacancies shall be filled for the
unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant. The Board of Adjustment
shall annually elect one of its members as Chairperson, another as Vice-
Chairperson, who shall act as Chairperson in the chairperson’s absence, and
appoint a secretary who may be an officer or an employee of the City. Each
shall serve until their successor has been selected. The Board of Adjustment
shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of this code. Meetings of
the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at
such other times as the Board of Adjustment may determine. The Board of
Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing evidence presented,
findings of fact by the Board of Adjustment, decisions of the Board of
Adjustment and the vote upon each question. Records of all official actions
shall be kept in the office of the Clerk and shall be open to public inspection
during reasonable business hours. All meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall
be open to the public.
2.   Appeals to Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and
determine appeals from, or other matters referred to it regarding the
application of this code. The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time
for the hearing of an appeal, or any other matter referred to it. Notice of the
time, place and subject of such hearings shall be published in the official
City newspaper at least 15 days prior to the date fixed for the hearing. A copy
of said notice shall be mailed to each party in interest, property owners
within 200 feet, and to the Planning and Zoning Commission. Appeals to the
Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person aggrieved, or by any officer of
the City or any governmental agency or body affected by any decisions of the
officer administering the provisions of this code. Such appeal shall be taken
within a reasonable time as provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment,
by filing a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof and the payment of
the fee required, therefore. The officer from whom the appeal is taken, when
notified by the Board of Adjustment or its agent, shall forthwith transmit to
the Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken.
3.   Powers and Jurisdiction Relating to Administrative Review. The Board of
Adjustment shall have the power to hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an
administrative official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any
zoning regulation or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of
structures or to interpret any map.
4.   Powers and Jurisdiction Relating to Exceptions. The Board of Adjustment
shall have the power to hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of
this code, requests for exceptions upon which the Board of Adjustment is
authorized by this code to pass; to decide such questions as are involved in
determining whether exceptions should be granted; and to grant exceptions with
such conditions and safeguards as are appropriate under this code. In no event
shall exceptions to the provisions of this code be granted where the use or
exception contemplated is not specifically authorized to be granted such
exceptions and only under the terms of this code. Further, under no conditions
shall the Board of Adjustment have the power to grant an exception where
conditions of such exception are not found to be present. And exception shall
not be granted by the Board of Adjustment unless and until:
   A.   Application. A written application for an exception is submitted
indicating the section of the code under which the exception is sought and
stating the grounds on which it is required;
   B.   Hearings. The public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in
person, or by agent or attorney;
   C.   Findings. The Board of Adjustment shall make a finding that it is
empowered under the section of this code described in the application to grant
the exception, and that the granting of the exception will not adversely affect
the public interest:
   D.   Rules Governing Individual Exceptions. Before any exception shall be
issued, the Board of Adjustment shall make written findings certifying
compliance with the specific rules governing individual exceptions and that
satisfactory provision and arrangement have been made concerning the following,
where applicable.
      (1)   Entrance and exit to property and proposed structures thereon with
particular reference to automotive and pedestrian safety and convenience,
traffic flow and control, and access in case of fire, or catastrophe;
      (2)   Off-street parking and loading areas where required, with
particular attention to the items in Subparagraph (1) above and the noise,
glare, odor or economic effects of the exception on adjoining properties and
properties generally in the district;
      (3)   Refuse and service areas, with particular reference to the items in
Subparagraphs (1) and (2) above;
      (4)   Utilities, with references to locations, availability, and
compatibility;
      (5)   Screening and buffering with reference to type, dimensions, and
character;
      (6)   Signs, if any, and proposed exterior lighting with reference to
glare, traffic safety, economic effect and compatibility and harmony with
properties in the district;
      (7)   Required yards and other open space;
      (8)   General compatibility with adjacent properties and other property
in the district.
5.   Powers and Jurisdiction Relating to Variances. The Board of Adjustment
shall have the power to authorize in specific cases a variance from the
specific terms of this code which will not be contrary to the public interest
and where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions
of this code will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, and
provided that the spirit of this code shall be observed, public safety and
welfare secured, and substantial justice done. A variance may be granted in
such case, upon a finding by the Board of Adjustment that all of the following
conditions have been met:
   A.   Unique Circumstances. That the variance requested arises from such
condition which is unique to the property in question, and which is not
ordinarily found in the same zoning district; and is not created by an action
or actions of the property owner or the applicant.
   B.   Consideration of Adjacent Property Rights. That the granting of the
permit for the variance will not adversely affect the rights of adjacent
property owners or residents.
   C.   Application of Regulations Constitutes Undue Hardship. That the strict
application of the provisions of this code from which variance is requested
will constitute unnecessary hardship upon the property owner represented in the
application.
   D.   Consideration of General Welfare of the Public. That the variance
desired will not adversely affect the public health, safety, morals, order,
convenience, prosperity or general welfare.
   E.   Adherence to Intent of Regulations. That granting the variance desired
will not be opposed to the general spirit and intent of this Code.
   F.   Requirement for Written Application and Conditions. A variance from the
terms of this Code shall not be granted by the Board of Adjustment unless and
until a written application for a variance is submitted demonstrating that
special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to the land,
structure, or building involved and which are not applicable to other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district; that literal interpretation of
the provisions of this Code would deprive the applicant of rights commonly
enjoyed by other properties in the same district under the terms of this code,
that the special conditions and circumstances do not result from the actions of
the applicant; and that granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this code to other land,
structures, or buildings in the same district.
   G.   Effect of Non-Conformance. No non-conforming use of neighboring lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district, and no permitted or non-
conforming use of lands, structures or buildings in other districts shall be
considered grounds for the issuance of a variance.
   H.   Public Hearing and Findings of the Board. Notice of the public hearing
shall be given as in Paragraph B; the public hearing shall be held. Any party
may appear in person or by agent or by attorney; the Board of Adjustment shall
make findings that the requirements of this section have been met by the
application for a variance; the Board of Adjustment shall further make a
finding that the reasons set forth in the application justify the granting of
the variance and that the variance is the minimum variance that will make
possible the reasonable use of the land, building or structure; the Board of
Adjustment shall further make a finding that the granting of the variance will
be in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this code and will not be
injurious to the neighborhood, or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare.
   I.   Conditions Imposed. In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment
may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this
Code. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the
terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
Code and punishable under Section 165.14.
   J.   Use Variances. Under no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment
grant a variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of this Code in
the district involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the
terms of this Code in said district.
6.   Board has Powers of Administrative Officer on Appeals; Reversing Decision
of Administrative Officer. In exercising the above-mentioned powers, the Board
of Adjustment may reverse or affirm wholly or partly, or may modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination as ought to be made, and to that end
shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken. A
concurring vote of three members of the Board of Adjustment shall be necessary
to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of any such
officer, or to decide in favor of the applicant or any matter upon which it is
required to pass under this Code or to affect any variation in this Code.
7.   Appeals to District Court. Any person, official or governmental agency
aggrieved with any decision or determination of the Board of Adjustment may
present a petition to the District Court, specifying the grounds of illegality
and the procedure thereof as provided. Such petition shall be presented to the
court within 30 days after the filing of the decision in the office of the
Board of Adjustment.
165.14   ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE AND ENFORCEMENT.
1.   Duties of the Administrative Official, Board of Adjustment, and Courts on
Matters of Appeal. It is the intent of this Code that all questions of
interpretation and enforcement shall be first presented to the Building
Official and that such questions shall be presented to the Board of Adjustment
only on appeal from the decision of the Building Official, and that recourse
from the decisions of the Board of Adjustment shall be to the courts as
provided by law, except as provided in this section. It is further the intent
of this Code that the duties of the Council in connection with this Code shall
not include hearing and deciding questions of interpretation and enforcement
that may arise. The procedure for deciding such questions shall be as stated in
this section and this code. Under this Code, the Council shall have only the
duties of considering and adopting or rejecting proposed amendments or the
repeal of this Code as provided by law and of establishing a schedule of fees
and charges as stated herein.
2.   Administration and Enforcement. An administrative official who shall be
known as the Building Official and who shall be designated by the Council shall
administer and enforce this Code. They may be provided with the assistance of
such other persons as the Council may direct. If the Building Official shall
find that any of the provisions of this Code are being violated, they shall
notify in writing the person responsible for such violations, indicating the
nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it. They
shall order discontinuance of illegal buildings or structures or of illegal
additions, alterations, or structural changes; discontinuance of any illegal
work being done; or shall take any other action authorized by this Code to
ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
3.   Building Permits Required. No building or other structure shall be
erected, moved, added to, or structurally altered without a permit therefore,
issued by the Building Official. No Building Permit shall be issued by the
Building Official except in conformity with the provisions of this Code, unless
they receive a written order from the Board of Adjustment or Council in the
form of an administrative review, special exception, or variance as provided by
this Code.
4.   Application for Building Permit. All applications for Building Permits
shall be accompanied by plans in triplicate drawn to scale, showing the actual
dimensions and shape of the lot to be built upon; the exact sizes and locations
on the lot of buildings already existing, if any; and the location and
dimensions of the proposed building or alteration. The application shall
include such other information as lawfully may be required by the Building
Official, including existing or proposed building or alterations; existing or
proposed uses of the building and land; the number of families, housekeeping
units, or rental units the building is designed to accommodate; conditions
existing on the lot; and such other matters as may be necessary to determine
conformance with, and provide for the enforcement of, this code. One copy of
the plan shall be returned to the applicant by the Building Official after they
shall have marked such copy either as approved or disapproved and attested to
same by their signature on such copy. If a Building Permit is refused, the
Building Official shall state the reasons for such refusal in writing. The
original and one copy of the plans, similarly marked, shall be retained by the
Building Official. The issuance of a Building Permit shall, in no case, be
construed as waiving any provisions of this Code.
5.   Certificates of Zoning Compliance for New, Altered, or Non-Altered or Non-
Conforming Use. It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or
occupancy of any (non-farm) building or premises, or both, or part thereof
hereafter created, erected, changed, converted, or wholly or partly altered or
enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of zoning compliance shall
have been issued therefore by the Building Official stating the proposed use of
the building or land conforms to the requirements of this code. No non-
conforming structure or use shall be maintained, renewed, changed, or extended
until a certificate of zoning compliance shall have been issued by the Building
Official. The certificate of zoning compliance shall state specifically wherein
the non-conforming use differs from the provisions of this Code provided, that
within six months of the enactment or amendment of this Code, the Building
Official shall notify in writing the owners or occupants of non­conforming uses
or structures that the uses or structures are in non-conformance with the
provisions of this Code and that a certificate of zoning compliance is
required. Failure by the Building Official to make such notification within six
months shall be presumptive evidence that the property was in conforming use at
the time of enactment or amendment of this Code. No permit for erection,
alteration, moving or repair of any building shall be issued until an
application has been made for a certificate of zoning compliance, and the
certificate shall be issued in conformity with the provisions of this Code upon
completion of the work. A temporary certificate of zoning compliance may be
issued by the Building Official for a period not exceeding six months during
alterations or partial occupancy of a building pending its completion, provided
that such temporary certificate may include such conditions and safeguards as
will protect the safety of the occupants and the public. The Building Official
shall maintain a record of certificates of zoning compliance and a copy shall
be furnished upon request to any person. Failure to obtain a certificate of
zoning compliance shall be a violation of this Code and punishable under
Section 165.11 of this Code.
6.   Expiration of Building Permit. If the work described in any Building
Permit has not begun within 90 days from the date of issuance thereof, said
permit shall expire; it shall be cancelled by the Building Official; and
written notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected. If the work
described in any Building Permit has not been substantially completed within
two years of the date of the issuance thereof, said permit shall expire and be
cancelled by the Building Official, and written notice thereof shall be given
to the persons affected, together with notice that further work as described in
the cancelled permit shall not proceed unless and until a new Building Permit
has been obtained.
7.   Construction and Use to be as Provided in Applications, Plans, Permits,
and Certificates of Zoning Compliance. Building permits or certificates of
zoning compliance issued on the basis of plans and applications approved by the
Building Official authorize on the use, arrangement and construction set forth
in such approved plans and applications, and no other use, arrangement or
construction. Use, arrangement or construction at variance with that authorized
shall be deemed a violation of this Code, and punishable as provided by Section
165.11 thereof.
8.   Schedule of Fees, Charges, and Expenses. There is hereby established in a
schedule of fees, charges and expenses for Building Permits and certificates of
zoning compliance, as presented below.
 
FEES FOR BUILDING PERMITS AND ZONING COMPLIANCE
Value of Building                                            Fee
To and including $1,000.00                                   $5.00 minimum
For each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof up to and  $1.00 per $1,000
including $15,000.00
For each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof up to and  $0.50 per $1,000
including $50,000.00
For each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, exceeding $0.25 per $1,000
$50,000.00
 
   1.   The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the Building
Official and may be altered or amended only by the Council. Until all
applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in full, no action shall
be taken on any application or appeal.
9.   New Buildings on Unapproved Streets. No Building Permit shall be issued
for, or no building shall be erected on any lot within the jurisdiction of this
Code, unless the street giving access to the lot upon which said building is
proposed to be placed shall be accepted or opened as, or shall have otherwise
received the legal status of, a public street prior to that time, or unless
such street corresponds in its location and lines with a street shown on a
subdivision plat approved by the Council after submission to the Planning and
Zoning Commission, and in case of said Planning and Zoning Commission’s
disapproval, is later approved by a minimum of two-third’s vote of the Council.
Any building erected in violation of this section shall be deemed an unlawful
structure and the City may bring action to enjoin such erection or cause it to
be vacated or removed.
165.15   CRITERIA FOR SITE PLAN REVIEW AND CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
 CRITERION APPLICATIONS TO
           Site Plan Review Conditional Use Permit
                                           APPLICATIONS TO
                     CRITERION             Site Plan Review Conditional Use
                                                            Permit
Land Use Compatibility
                     Site area per unit or
                     floor area ratio
                     should be similar to
Development Density  surrounding uses if   X                X
                     not separated by
                     major natural or
                     artificial features.
Height and Scale
                     Development should
                     minimize differences
                     in height and
                     building size from
Height and Bulk      surrounding           X                X
                     structures.
                     Differences should be
                     justified by urban
                     design
                     considerations.
                     Development should
                     respect pre-existing
                     setbacks in
Setbacks             surrounding area.     X                X
                     Variation should be
                     justified by site or
                     operating
                     characteristics.
                     Building coverage
                     should be similar to
                     that of surrounding
                     development if
Building Coverage    possible. Higher      X                X
                     coverage should be
                     mitigated by
                     landscaping or site
                     amenities.
Site Development
                     Project frontage
                     along a street should
                     be similar to lot
                     width. Parking should
                     serve all structures  X                X
                     with minimal
                     conflicts between
                     pedestrians and
                     vehicles.
Frontage Parking and All structures must
Internal Circulation be accessible to      X                X
                     public safety
                     vehicles.
                     Development must have
                     access to adjacent
                     public streets and
                     ways. Internal        X                X
                     circulation should
                     minimize conflicts
                     and congestion at
                     public access points.
                     Landscaping should be
                     integral to the
                     development,
                     providing street
                     landscaping breaks in
                     uninterrupted paved
                     areas, and buffering
Landscaping          where required by     X                X
                     surrounding land
                     uses. Parts of site
                     with sensitive
                     environmental
                     features or natural
                     drainageways should
                     be preserved.
                     Architectural design
                     and building
                     materials should be
Building Design      compatible with                        X
                     surrounding areas or
                     highly visible
                     locations.
Operating Characteristics
                     Project should not
                     reduce the existing
                     level of traffic
                     service on adjacent
Traffic Capacity     streets. Compensating X                X
                     improvements will be
                     required to mitigate
                     impact on street
                     system operations.
                     Project design should
External Traffic     direct non-
Effects              residential traffic   X                X
                     away from residential
                     areas.
                     Projects with long
                     operating hours must
Operating Hours      minimize effects on   X                X
                     surrounding
                     residential areas.
 
 CRITERION APPLICATIONS TO
           Site Plan Review Conditional Use Permit
                                                                                          APPLICATIONS TO
                CRITERION                                                                 Site   Conditional
                                                                                          Plan   Use Permit
                                                                                          Review
Operating
Characteristics
(continued)
Industrial      Projects must provide direct access from major arterials without
Access          requiring travel through residential areas or along local, residential    X      X
                streets.
                Projects must minimize external hazards to surrounding properties or, if
Hazardous       hazardous materials are handled or stored, take measures to provide       X      X
Effects         appropriate separations between the site and neighboring inhabited
                properties.
Outside Storage Outside storage areas must be screened from surrounding streets and less  X      X
                intensive land uses.
Public Facilities
Sanitary Waste  Developments must connect to the public sanitary sewer system.            X      X
Disposal
                Sanitary sewers must have adequate capacity to serve development.         X      X
Stormwater      Development should handle stormwater adequately to prevent overloading of X      X
Management      public stormwater management system.
                Development should not inhibit development of other properties.           X      X
                Development should not increase probability of erosion, flooding,
Utilities       landslides, or other run-off related effects. Project must be served by   X      X
                utilities.
Comprehensive Plan
Comprehensive   Projects should be consistent with the City’s Comprehensive Development        X
Plan            Plan
165.16   SWIMMING POOL REGULATIONS.  
1.   No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, or otherwise improve a swimming
pool that contains water over 24 inches deep, whether temporary or permanent
without first obtaining a permit as required by the Unified Land Development
Code, or maintain such pool contrary to the provisions of this section.
Permanent swimming pools shall obtain a one-time permit, unless alterations or
modifications occur which shall require the submission of a new permit. Permit
fees shall be set by the Council by resolution.
2.   An outdoor permanent swimming pool shall have a barrier as described
below.
   A.   All permanent pools with a depth of 18 inches or greater shall be
completely surrounded by a barrier, fence, or solid structure (house or garage
wall) and shall have no opening, other than doors or gates, except as listed in
Paragraphs B and C.
      (1)   Minimum of six-foot-high barrier, fence, or solid structure is
required for all permanently installed pools.
      (2)   Minimum 42 inches high barrier, fence or solid structure is
required for all other pools capable of holding water from 18 to 42 inches in
depth.
      (3)   Such barrier fence, solid structure, or wall shall be constructed
of sufficiently strong materials and of such structural design as to make the
pool inaccessible to small children:
   B.   The barrier, fence, or other solid structure shall have no openings of
more than four inches.
   C.   All gates or doors shall:
      (1)   Be equipped with a self-closing, self-latching, and lockable door
or gate securely closed at all times when not in actual use.
      (2)   Have all latches or locking devices on doors and gates not less
than 42 inches above the adjoining walls, steps, or ground.
      (3)   At all times, when the pool is unattended such gates, doors, steps,
ladders, ramp, or other vehicles affording access to the pool shall be secured
against unauthorized access. “Unattended” means the absence of an adult person
in the outdoor swimming pool or within constant eyesight of said pool and no
more than 20 feet therefrom.
   D.   Barriers may include not only fences, walls, or solid streamline, but
may also include decks, the pool structure itself and above-ground fencing that
is specifically attached to pools as designed by the manufacturers of pools.
However, barriers shall not include items that are unsightly, subject to
usually fast wear and tear or otherwise made of materials not designed for use
around outdoor swimming pools.
3.   Location and Distance from Property Line.
   A.   No part of a swimming pool, whether temporary or permanent, or its
related structure shall be constructed with seven feet of property line, other
than wall, fence, or other structure which can be readily climbed by children.
   B.   Temporary or permanent pools shall be located only in rear or side
yards and shall not be located in front yards.
4.   Inspection. Persons maintaining a swimming pool pursuant to this chapter
shall be deemed to consent to periodic inspections of same for compliance with
this and other chapters in this Code at a reasonable time by City employees.
5.   Enforcement. This requirement shall be applicable to all new swimming
pools hereafter constructed, other than indoor pools, and shall apply to all
existing pools which have a minimum depth of 18 inches of water. No person in
possession of land within the City, either as owner, purchaser, lessee, tenant,
or licensee, on which is situated a swimming pool having a minimum depth of 18
inches, shall fail to provide and maintain such barrier fence or wall as
provided for in this section.
165.17   FLAGPOLE REGULATIONS.  
1.   No flagpole 15 feet in height or greater shall be erected or constructed
without first obtaining a Building Permit pursuant to Chapter 146.
   A.   Unless additional review is required pursuant to this Code, a Building
Permit application for a flagpole shall be reviewed for compliance with this
chapter and all applicable codes and a decision to approve, approve with
conditions, or deny shall be issued within 30 days of receipt of a fully
complete permit application. All applications for flagpoles requiring a
Building Permit shall include plans and specifications stamped by a
professional licensed engineer to assure proper grounding, strength, wind
resistance, seismic loads, and other relevant engineering requirements.
   B.   Metal flagpoles requiring a Building Permit shall be engineered and
constructed in accordance with the American National Standard Institute –
National Association of Architectural Metal Manufacturers (ANSI/NAAMM) Guide
Specifications for Design of Metal Flagpoles, FP 1001-97 as amended.
   C.   Any flagpole greater than 15 feet in height shall be allowed only in a
commercial or industrial district within the City limits.
2.   Approval Process. Persons seeking permits or approval under this chapter
shall be subject to the administrative review process. The applicant shall seek
consultation for height and lighting restrictions through the Federal Aviation
Administration.
3.   Business Signage, Advertising Restricted by Previous Ordinance. Flags,
other than government approved official flags of the United States of America
or of the State, which are designed for or in effect serve advertising purposes
and focus attention on location for business purposes, shall be considered
signage and shall NOT be allowed on the permitted flagpole, as all such signs
are already regulated by the City’s sign ordinances, Chapter 171.
4.   Height. The top of all flags (including the flagpole), regardless of the
manner of mounting, whether freestanding, or on any structure, or any
combination thereof: All flags, including the flagpole, regardless of the
manner of mounting whether freestanding or on any structure, or any combination
thereof shall be allowed for the display of any flag authorized under this code
of ordinances, as long as the proposed flagpole meets the construction
requirements set forth in Subsection 1 and as long as the Federal Aviation
Administration approves the height and position of the flagpole. This height
provision shall apply only to flagpoles placed in commercial and industrial
zoned areas within the City limits.
5.   Setbacks. Flags and flagpoles must be set back sufficient distance from
property lines so as not to create a safety hazard on adjacent property. These
structures and their related flags shall be set back sufficient distance to
enable the flag to fly fully open without flying over the property of others.
6.   Size. The maximum flag size allowed on a flagpole, tower, tower structure,
or similar structure shall be as follows:
      Flagpole/Structure   Size of Flag (Maximum)
         A.   20 ft.   4 ft. by 6 ft.
         B.   25 ft.   5 ft. by 8 ft.
         C.   30-35 ft.   6 ft. by 10 ft.
         D.   40-45 ft.   6 ft. by 10 ft. or 8 ft. by 12 ft.
         E.   50 ft.   8 ft. by 12 ft. or 10 ft. by 15 ft.
   1.   Changes to the dimensional standard of the flag shall be allowed if the
total area of the flag allowed is not exceeded and if it can be demonstrated
that the revision to dimensional standards meets the intent of this Code.
7.   Number. No more than one flagpole as described and used herein shall be
allowed per parcel or lot.
8.   Manner of Display. Flags and insignia of any government should be
displayed in an approved manner pursuant to federal guidelines in Title 4,
United States Code, Chapter 1 (the Federal Flag Code).
9.   Light Display. Lighting of the flagpole at night is allowed. To contain
the impacts of unsafe lighting and light pollution, the City prohibits the
following when used with or for flags and flagpoles:
   A.   Floodlights, searchlights, beacons, and laser source light fixtures
which are not confined to illumination of the pole and flag;
   B.   Neon lighting;
   C.   Lighting which creates hazards to pedestrian and traffic safety, and
which is a nuisance to surrounding properties because of excessive glare,
excessive light production in relation to need, or lighting which creates
shadow and light which together create a hazard; and
   D.   Blinking, flashing, animated, or moving lights. Whenever possible down-
lighting and shielding or baffling of fixtures shall be incorporated into the
design of the flag and flagpole.
10.   Nonconformance.
   A.   Pre-existing Nonconforming Flags and Flagpole. No outdoor flag or
flagpole which was lawfully installed prior to the enactment of this Code shall
be required to be removed or modified except as expressly proved herein;
however, no modification, alteration or replacement shall be made to a
nonconforming structure unless the structure thereafter conforms to the
provisions of this chapter. Normal maintenance and repair of any flagpole shall
be allowed.
   B.   Conformance After Abandonment or Damage. In the event that a flag or
flagpole is abandoned for more than one year, or is damaged beyond 75 percent
of appraised, assessed value, the repaired or replacement flag or flagpole
shall comply with the provisions of the chapter.
11.   Variances. Variances from the standards of this chapter shall be pursuant
to the processes outlined in City Code and shall be heard by the Board of
Adjustment.
12.   Appeals. Any person aggrieved by any part, requirement or process of this
chapter shall have the right and obligation to seek review of this chapter or
any decision made pursuant to it. Appeals of decision of the Building Official
shall be to the Council upon written application to the City. An applicant
aggrieved by any part, requirement or process set forth in this chapter must
exhaust all available administrative appeals before seeking recourse in the
courts.
13.   Administrative Interpretation. Administrative interpretations of this
chapter shall be made by the Building Official. Any costs associated with the
Building Official consulting with an architect or engineer regarding the
proposed flagpole and flag shall be charged to the applicant, and paid for by
the applicant, regardless of the decision to approve or not approve the
flagpole.
14.   Penalties. Violation of this code will be considered a nuisance under
Chapter 50.
CHAPTER 166
USE TYPES
166.01 Purpose                          166.24 Sidewalks
166.02 Determinations                   166.25 Pole Buildings
166.03 Agricultural Use Types           166.26 Use Matrix
166.04 Residential Use Types            166.27 R-1 Urban Residential Single-
                                        Family District
166.05 Civic Use Types                  166.28 R-2 Urban Residential Mixed
                                        Density District
166.06 Office Use Types                 166.29 R-3 Urban Residential Multi-
                                        Family District
166.07 Commercial Use Types             166.30 R/CC Carter Lake Club Special
                                        Residential District
166.08 Parking Use Types                166.31 RM Mobile Home Residential
                                        District
166.09 Industrial Use Types             166.32 CL Locust Street Corridor Mixed
                                        Use District
166.10 Transportation Use Types         166.33 C-1 Limited Commercial District
166.11 Miscellaneous Type Uses          166.34 C-2 General Commercial District
166.12 General Zoning District          166.35 TC Carter Lake Town Center
Regulations                             District
166.13 Establishment and Designation of 166.36 C/A Abbott Drive Corridor
Districts                               Commercial District
166.14 Application of Districts         166.37 BP Business Park District
166.15 Hierarchy                        166.38 M-1 Limited Industrial District
166.16 Development Regulations          166.39 M-2 General Industrial District
166.17 Zoning Map                       166.40 Special and Overlay Districts
166.18 Interpretation of District       166.41 MU Mixed Use District
Boundaries
166.19 Vacation of Streets and Alleys   166.42 Planned Unit Development
                                        District (PUD)
166.20 Required Conformance             166.43 P-1 Planned Industrial District
166.21 Required Frontage                166.44 W Water-Oriented/Open Space
                                        Development Overlay District
166.22 Use Matrix: Levels of Permitted  166.45 FP/FW Floodplain/Floodway
Uses                                    Overlay District
166.23 Guide to Site Development        166.46 Performance Points System
Regulators
166.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the use types is to establish a classification system for land
uses and a consistent set of terms defining uses permitted or conditionally
permitted within various zoning districts. The use types section also provides
a procedure for determining the applicable use type of any activity not clearly
within any defined use type.
166.02   DETERMINATIONS.
In the event of any question as to the appropriate use types of any existing or
proposed use or activity, the Building Official shall have the authority to
determine the appropriate use type. A determination of the Building Official
may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment. In making such determinations, the
Building Official and Board of Adjustment shall consider such characteristics
or specific requirements of the use in common with those included as examples
of use types. Those examples, when included in use type descriptions, are
intended to be illustrative, as opposed to exclusive lists. The Building
Official shall make all such determinations of appropriate use types in
writing. The record of the determination shall contain a report explaining the
reasons for the determination.
166.03   AGRICULTURAL USE TYPES.
1.   Animal Production. The raising of animals or production of animal
products, such as eggs or dairy products on an agricultural or commercial basis
on a site which is also used for crop production or where grazing of natural
vegetation is the major feed source; or the raising of animals for recreational
or educational use. Typical uses include grazing, ranching, dairy farming, and
poultry farming.
2.   Commercial Feedlots. The use of a site for the confined feeding or holding
of livestock or poultry within buildings, lots, pens, or other close quarters
that are not used for crop production or where grazing of natural vegetation is
not the major feed source. Livestock and poultry shall include any animal or
fowl that are used primarily for use as food or food products for human
consumption, or for laboratory or testing purposes. A commercial feedlot does
not include areas which are used for the raising of crops or other vegetation,
and upon which livestock are allowed to graze or feed.
3.   Crop Production. The raising and harvesting of tree crops, row crops or
field crops on an agricultural or commercial basis. This definition may include
accessory retail sales under certain conditions.
4.   Horticulture. The growing of horticultural and floricultural specialties,
such as flowers, shrubs, or trees intended for ornamental or landscaping
purposes. This definition may include accessory retail sales under certain
conditions. Typical uses include wholesale plant nurseries and greenhouses.
5.   Livestock Sales. The use of a site for the temporary confinement and
exchange or sale of livestock. Typical uses include sales barns.
166.04   RESIDENTIAL USE TYPES.
Residential use types include uses providing wholly or primarily non-transient
living accommodations. They exclude institutional living arrangements providing
24-hour skilled nursing or medical care, forced residence, or therapeutic
settings.
1.   Duplex Residential. The use of a legally described lot for two dwelling
units, each occupied by one family within a single building, excluding
manufactured or mobile home units, but including modular housing units.
2.   Group Residential. The use of a site for a residence by more than four
unrelated persons, not defined as a family, on a weekly or longer basis.
3.   Manufactured Home Residential. Use of a site for one or more manufactured
home dwellings, as defined in Section 165.07(13)(C).
4.   Mobile Home Park. Use of a site under single ownership for one or more
mobile home units. Generally, the land on which mobile homes are placed in a
mobile home park is leased from the owner of the facility.
5.   Mobile Home Subdivision. Division of a tract of land into lots that meet
all the requirements of Section 166.31 for the location of mobile homes.
Generally, a lot within a mobile home subdivision is owned by the mobile
homeowner placed upon such lot.
6.   Multiple-Family Residential. The use of a site for three or more dwelling
units within one building not otherwise defined as townhouse units.
7.   Retirement Residence. A building or group of buildings which provide
residential facilities, provided that 75 percent of the residents are at least
60 years of age, or households headed by a householder of at least 60 years of
age. A retirement residence may provide a range of residential building types
and may also provide support services to residents, including but not limited
to food service, general health supervision, medication services, housekeeping
services, personal services, recreation facilities, and transportation
services. The retirement residence may accommodate food preparation in
independent units or meal service in one or more common areas. Retirement
residences may include additional health care supervision or nursing care.
8.   Single-Family Residential. The use of a site for one dwelling unit,
occupied by one family. Mobile home units are not a single­ family use type.
See below categories for such units.
   A.   Single-Family Residential (Detached). A single-family residential use
in which one dwelling unit is located on a single lot, with no physical or
structural connection to any other dwelling unit.
   B.   Single-Family Residential (Attached). A single-family residential use
in which one dwelling unit is located on a single lot and is attached by a
common vertical wall to only one other adjacent dwelling unit on another single
lot.
9.   Townhouse Residential. The use of a site for three or more attached
dwelling units, each occupied by one family and separated by vertical sidewalls
extending from foundation through roof without openings. Each townhouse unit
must have at least two exposed exterior walls.
10.   Two-Family Residential. The use of a site for two dwelling units, each
occupied by one family, each in a separate building, excluding a mobile home
unit.
166.05   CIVIC USE TYPES.
Civic use types include the performance of utility, educational, recreational,
cultural, medical, protective, governmental, and other uses that are strongly
vested with social importance.
1.   Administration. Governmental offices providing administrative, clerical,
or public contact services that deal directly with the citizen, together with
incidental storage and maintenance of necessary vehicles. Typical uses include
federal, State, County, and City offices.
2.   Cemetery. Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead and
dedicated for cemetery purposes, including columbarium’s, crematoria,
mausoleums, and mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and within the
boundary of such cemetery.
3.   Clubs. Uses providing meeting, recreational, or social facilities for a
private, non-profit or noncommercial association, primarily for use by members
and guests.
   A.   Clubs (Recreational). Clubs that provide indoor or outdoor athletic
facilities, with or without social or meeting facilities. Typical uses include
country clubs, private or nonprofit community or recreation centers, and
private golf courses and driving ranges.
   B.   Clubs (Social). Clubs, which provide primarily social or meeting
facilities. Typical uses include private social clubs and fraternal
organizations.
4.   College and University Facilities. An educational institution of higher
learning that offers a course of study designed to culminate in the issuance of
a degree certified by a generally recognized accrediting organization.
5.   Convalescent Services. A use providing bed care and inpatient services for
persons requiring regular medical attention but excluding a facility providing
surgical or emergency medical services and excluding a facility providing care
for alcoholism, drug addiction, mental disease, or communicable disease.
Typical uses include nursing homes.
6.   Cultural Services. A library, museum, or similar registered non-profit
organizational use displaying, preserving and exhibiting objects of community
and cultural interest in one or more of the arts and sciences.
7.   Day Care Services (General). All classifications of day care facilities
regulated by the State that operate providing care for more than six children.
This term includes nursery schools, preschools, day care centers for children
or adults, and similar uses but excludes public and private primary and
secondary educational facilities
8.   Day Care Services (Limited). All classifications of day care facilities
regulated by the State that operate providing care for not more than six
children. This term includes nursery schools, preschools, day care centers for
children or adults, and similar uses but excludes public and private primary
and secondary educational facilities.
9.   Detention Facilities. A publicly operated or contracted use providing
housing and care for individuals legally confined, designed to isolate those
individuals from the community.
10.   Elder Group Home. A single-family residence that is the residence of a
person who is providing room, board, and personal care to three through five
elders who are not related to the person providing the service within the third
degree of consanguinity or affinity.
11.   Emergency Residential Services. A facility or use of a building to
provide a protective sanctuary for victims of crime or abuse, including
emergency housing during crisis intervention for victims of rape, abuse, or
physical beatings.
12.   Family Home. A community-based residential home or a child foster care
facility to provide room and board, personal care, habilitation services, and
supervision in a family environment exclusively for not more than eight
developmentally disabled persons and any necessary support personnel as
permitted by and as limited by Section 414.22 of the Code of Iowa.
13.   Group Care Facility. A government-licensed or approved facility which
provides for resident care and short- or long-term, continuous multi-day
occupancy of more than eight but no more than 30 unrelated persons, not
including resident staff. Group care facilities include facilities which
provide services in accordance with individual needs for the:
   A.   Adaptation to living with, or rehabilitation from, the handicaps of
physical disability.
   B.   Adaptation to living with, or rehabilitation from, the handicaps of
emotional or mental disorder; or developmental disabilities.
   C.   Rehabilitation from the effects of drug or alcohol abuse.
   D.   Supervision while under a program alternative to imprisonment,
including but not limited to pre-release, work release, and probationary
programs.
   E.   Others who require direct adult supervision.
14.   Group Home. A facility licensed by the State in which at least three but
no more than eight persons, not including resident managers or house parents,
who are unrelated by blood, marriage, or adoption, reside while receiving
therapy, training, living assistance, or counseling for the purpose of
adaptation to living with or rehabilitation from a physical or mental
disability as defined by the relevant provisions of the Code of Iowa or by the
Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988.
15.   Guidance Services. A use providing counseling, guidance, recuperative, or
similar services to persons requiring rehabilitation assistance as a result of
mental illness, alcoholism, detention, drug addiction, or similar condition on
a daytime care basis.
16.   Health Care. A facility providing medical, psychiatric, or surgical
service for sick or injured persons exclusively on an outpatient basis
including emergency treatment, diagnostic services, training, administration
and services to outpatients, employees, or visitors.
17.   Hospital. A facility providing medical, psychiatric, or surgical service
for sick or injured persons primarily on an inpatient basis, including
emergency treatment, diagnostic services, training, administration, and
services to patients, employees, or visitors.
18.   Maintenance Facilities. A public facility supporting maintenance, repair,
vehicular or equipment servicing, material storage, and similar activities
including street or sewer yards, equipment service centers, and similar uses
having characteristics of commercial services or contracting or industrial
activities.
19.   Park and Recreation Services. Publicly owned and operated parks,
playgrounds, recreation facilities including publicly owned community centers,
and open spaces.
20.   Postal Facilities. Postal services, including post offices, bulk mail
processing or sorting centers operated by the United States Postal Service.
21.   Primary Educational Facilities. A public, private, or parochial school
offering instruction at the elementary school level in the branches of learning
study required to be taught in schools within the State.
22.   Public Assembly. Facilities owned and operated by a public agency,
charitable non-profit, or private organization accommodating major public
assembly for recreation, sports, amusement, or entertainment purposes. Typical
uses include civic or community auditoriums, sports stadiums and arenas,
convention facilities, fairgrounds, incidental sales, and exhibition
facilities.
23.   Religious Assembly. A use located in a permanent building and providing
regular organized religious worship and religious education incidental thereto
(excluding private primary or private secondary educational facilities,
community recreational facilities, day care facilities, and incidental parking
facilities). A property tax exemption obtained pursuant to property tax code of
the State shall constitute prima fade evidence of religious assembly use.
24.   Safety Services. Facilities for the conduct of public safety and
emergency services including police and fire protection services and emergency
medical and ambulance services. Although not a dwelling unit, such facilities
may provide limited accommodations for service providers to sleep overnight,
but only when necessary for the service provider to successfully discharge
their duties and work assignment.
25.   Secondary Educational Facilities. A public, private, or parochial school
offering instruction at the junior high or high school level in the branches of
learning and study required to be taught in the schools of the State.
26.   Utilities. Any above ground structures or facilities, other than lines,
poles, and other incidental facilities, used for the production, generation,
transmission, delivery, collection, or storage of water, sewage, electricity,
gas, oil, energy media, communications, electronic or electromagnetic signals,
or other services which are precedent to development or use of land.
166.06   OFFICE USE TYPES.
Office use types include uses providing for administration, professional
services, and allied activities. These uses often invite public clientele but
are more limited in external effects than commercial uses.
1.   Corporate Offices. Use of a site for administrative, processing, or
research offices, which generally does not provide service to clientele from
the City and the surrounding region. Corporate offices are destinations for
commuters drawn from a relatively wide region around the City, as well as from
the community itself. Typical uses include corporate headquarters offices,
telemarketing, or information processing offices.
2.   General Offices. Use of a site for business, professional, or
administrative offices who may invite clients from both local and regional
areas. Typical uses include real estate, insurance, management, travel, or
other business offices; organization and association offices; or professional
offices.
3.   Financial Services. Provision of financial and banking services to
consumers or clients. Walk-in and drive-in services to consumers are provided
on site. Typical uses include banks, savings and loan associations, savings
banks, and loan companies. An ATM (automatic teller machine) that is not
accompanied on-site by an office of its primary financial institution is
considered within the consumer services use type.
4.   Medical Offices. Use of a site for facilities which provide diagnoses and
outpatient care on a routine basis, but which do not provide prolonged, in-
house medical or surgical care. Medical offices are operated by doctors,
dentists, or similar medical practitioners licensed for practice in the State
166.07   COMMERCIAL USE TYPES.
Commercial uses include the sale, rental, service, and distribution of goods;
and the provision of services other than those classified under other use
types.
1.   Agricultural Sales and Service. Establishments or places of business
engaged in sale from the premises of feed, grain, fertilizers, farm equipment,
pesticides, and similar goods or in the provision of agriculturally related
services with incidental storage on lots other than where the service is
rendered. Typical uses include nurseries, hay, farm implement dealerships, feed
and grain stores, and tree service firms.
2.   Automotive and Equipment Services. Establishments or places of business
primarily engaged in sale or service of automobiles, trucks, or heavy
equipment. The following are considered automotive and equipment use types:
   A.   Auto Services. Provision of fuel, lubricants, parts and accessories,
and incidental services to motor vehicles; and washing and cleaning or repair
of automobiles, noncommercial trucks, motorcycles, motor homes, recreational
vehicles, or boats, including the sale, installation, and servicing of
equipment and parts. Typical uses include service stations, car washes, muffler
shops, auto repair garages, tire sales and installation, wheel and brake shops,
and similar repair and service activities but exclude dismantling, salvage, or
body and fender repair services.
   B.   Body Repair. Repair, painting, or refinishing of the body, fender, or
frame of automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, motor homes, recreational vehicles,
boats, tractors, construction equipment, agricultural implements, and similar
vehicles or equipment. Typical uses include body and fender shops, painting
shops, and other similar repair or refinishing garages.
   C.   Equipment Repair Services. Repair of trucks, tractors, construction
equipment, agricultural implements, and similar heavy equipment. Typical uses
include truck repair garages, tractor and farm implement repair services, and
machine shops, but exclude dismantling, salvage, or body and fender repair
services.
3.   Bed and Breakfast. A lodging service that provides overnight or short-term
accommodations to guests or visitors, usually including provision of breakfast.
Bed and breakfasts are usually located in large residential structures that
have been adapted for this use. For the purpose of this definition, bed and
breakfasts are always owned and operated by the resident owner or resident
manager of the structure, include no more than eight units, and accommodate
each guest or visitor for no more than seven consecutive days during any one-
month period.
4.   Business Support Services. Establishments or places of business primarily
engaged in the sale, rental, or repair of equipment, supplies and materials or
the provision of services used by office, professional, and service
establishments to the firms themselves but excluding automotive, construction,
and farm equipment. Typical uses include office equipment and supply firms,
small business machine repair shops or hotel equipment and supply firms,
messenger, and delivery services, custodial or maintenance services, and
convenience printing and copying.
5.   Business or Trade Schools. A use providing education or training in
business, commerce, language, or other similar activity or occupational
pursuit, and not otherwise defined as a home occupation, college or university,
or public or private educational facility.
6.   Campground. Facilities providing camping or parking areas and incidental
services for travelers in recreational vehicles or tents, which accommodate
each guest or visitor for no more than seven consecutive days during any one-
month period.
7.   Cocktail Lounge. A use engaged in the preparation and retail sale of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, including taverns, bars,
cocktail lounges, and similar uses other than a restaurant as that term is
defined in this section.
8.   Commercial Recreation. Private businesses, or other organizations which
may or may not be commercial by structure or by nature, which are primarily
engaged in the provision or sponsorship of sports, entertainment, or recreation
for participants or spectators. Typical uses include theaters, private dance
halls, billiard or bowling centers, game arcades, or private skating
facilities.
9.   Communications Services. Establishments primarily engaged in the provision
of broadcasting and other information relay service accomplished through the
use of electronic and telephonic mechanisms but excludes those classified as
utilities. Typical uses include television studios, telecommunication service
centers, telegraph service offices, or film and sound recording facilities.
Broadcast towers and their minor ancillary ground structures, are classified as
“miscellaneous use types.”
10.   Construction Sales and Services. Establishments or places of business
primarily engaged in the retail or wholesale sale, from the premises, of
materials used in the construction of buildings or other structures other than
retail sale of paint, fixtures and hardware. This use type excludes those uses
classified under automotive and equipment services. Typical uses include
building materials sales, or tool and equipment rental or sales.
11.   Consumer Services. Establishments that provide services, primarily to
individuals and households, but excluding automotive use types. Typical uses
include automated banking machines, appliance repair shops, watch or jewelry
repair shops, or musical instrument repair shops. (See Financial Services
Section 166.06(3))
12.   Convenience Storage. Storage services primarily for personal effects and
household goods within enclosed storage areas having individual access but
excluding use of such areas as workshops, hobby shops, manufacturing, or
commercial activity. Typical uses include mini warehousing.
13.   Food Sales. Establishments or places of business primarily engaged in the
retail sale of food or household products for home consumption. Food sales
establishments may include the sale of non-food items. Typical uses include
groceries, delicatessens, meat markets, retail bakeries, and candy shops.
   A.   Convenience Food Sales. Establishments occupying facilities of less
than 10,000 square feet; and characterized by sales of specialty foods or a
limited variety of general items, and by the sales of fuel for motor vehicles.
   B.   Limited Food Sales. Establishments occupying facilities of less than
10,000 square feet; and characterized by sales of specialty foods or a limited
variety of general items, but excluding the accessory sale of fuel for motor
vehicles. Typical uses include delicatessens, meat markets, retail bakeries,
candy shops, small grocery stores.
   C.   General Food Sales. Establishments selling a wide variety of food
commodities and related items, using facilities larger than 10,000 but less
than 40,000 square feet. Typical uses include grocery stores and locker plants.
   D.   Supermarkets. Establishments selling a wide variety of food
commodities, related items, and often providing a variety of non-food goods and
services, using facilities larger than 40,000 square feet. Typical uses include
large grocery stores.
14.   Funeral Services. Establishments engaged in undertaking services such as
preparing the human dead for burial and arranging and managing funerals.
Typical uses include funeral homes or mortuaries.
15.   Gaming Facilities. Establishments engaged in the lawful, on-site
operation of games of chance that involve the risk of money for financial gain
by patrons. Gaming facilities shall include the accessory sale of liquor and
food, pursuant to regulations of the City or the State.
16.   Kennels. Boarding and care services for dogs, cats and similar small
mammals or large birds; or any premises on which more than three animals
included under this definition over four months of age are kept and maintained.
Typical uses include boarding kennels, ostrich raising facilities, pet motels,
or dog training centers.
17.   Laundry Services. Establishments primarily engaged in the provision of
laundering, cleaning, or drying services other than those classified as
personal services. Typical uses include bulk laundry and cleaning plants,
diaper services, or linen supply services.
18.   Liquor Sales. Establishments or places of business engaged in retail sale
for off-premises consumption of alcoholic beverages. Typical uses include
liquor stores, bottle shops, and any licensed sales of liquor, beer or wine for
off-site consumption.
19.   Lodging. Lodging services involving the provision of room and board, but
not meeting the classification criteria of bed and breakfasts. Typical uses
include hotels, apartment hotels, and motels.
20.   Personal Improvement Services. Establishments primarily engaged in the
provision of informational, instructional, personal improvements and similar
services of a nonprofessional nature. Typical uses include driving schools,
health or physical fitness studios, music schools, reducing salons, dance
studios, and handicraft and hobby instruction.
21.   Personal Services. Establishments or places of business primarily engaged
in the provision of services of a personal nature. Typical uses include beauty
and barbershops, seamstress, tailor, shoe repair shops, photography studios;
television or electronics repair, or dry-cleaning stations serving individuals
and households. Personal services include establishments providing for the
administration of massage or massage therapy carried out by persons licensed by
the State when performing massage services as a part of the profession or trade
for which licensed or persons performing massage services under the direction
of a person so licensed; or persons performing massage services or therapy
pursuant to the written direction of a licensed physician.
22.   Pet Services. Retail sales, incidental pet health services, and grooming
and boarding, when totally within a building, of dogs, cats, birds, fish, and
similar small animals customarily used as household pets. Typical uses include
pet stores, small animal clinics, dog bathing and clipping salons, and pet
grooming shops, but exclude uses for livestock and large animals.
23.   Research Services. Establishments primarily engaged in research of an
industrial or scientific nature. Typical uses include electronics research
laboratories, space research and development firms, testing laboratories, or
pharmaceutical research labs.
24.   Restaurants. A use engaged in the preparation and retail sale of food and
beverages; including the sale of alcoholic beverages when conducted as a
secondary feature of the use, producing less than 50 percent of the
establishment’s gross income.
   A.   Restaurant (Drive-In or Fast Food). An establishment that principally
supplies food and beverages in disposable containers and is characterized by
high automobile accessibility and on­ site accommodations, self-service, and
short stays by customers.
   B.   Restaurant (General). An establishment characterized by table service
to customers or accommodation to walk-in clientele, as opposed to drive-in or
fast-food restaurants. Typical uses include cafes, coffee shops, and
restaurants.
25.   Restricted (or Adult) Businesses. Any business activity that offers the
opportunity to view specified sexual activities or view and touch specified
anatomical areas in a manner that lacks serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value. This category includes the sale or viewing of visual or
print materials that meet these criteria if the sale of such material
constitutes more than 20 percent of the sales or retail floor area of the
establishment. For the purposes of this definition, specified anatomical areas
include the following if less than opaquely covered: human genitals, the pubic
region, pubic hair, or the female breast below a point immediately above the
top of the areola. Specified sexual activities include any of the following
conditions (See Chapter 127):
   A.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   B.   Acts or representations of acts of human masturbation, sexual
intercourse with humans or animals, oral sex, or flagellation.
   C.   Fondling or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttock,
or female breast.
   D.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any activities set
forth in Paragraphs A through C above.
1.   Typical uses include retail services or stores which are distinguished by
an emphasis on activities or materials that emphasize primarily sexual content
in their inventory and marketing practices; businesses which offer live
performances characterized by exposure of specified anatomical areas; and adult
theaters. Businesses may be classified as restricted or adult entertainment
businesses without regard to service of alcoholic beverages.
26.   Retail Services. Sale or rental with incidental service of commonly used
goods and merchandise for personal or household use but excludes those
classified more specifically by these use type classifications. Typical uses
include department stores, apparel stores, furniture stores, or establishments
providing the following products or services: Household cleaning and
maintenance products; drugs, cards, stationery, notions, books, tobacco
products, cosmetics, and specialty items; flowers, plants, hobby materials,
toys, and handcrafted items; apparel jewelry, fabrics and like items; cameras,
photograph services, household electronic equipment, records, sporting
equipment, kitchen utensils, home furnishing and appliances, art supplies and
framing, arts and antiques, paint and wallpaper, hardware, carpeting and floor
covering; interior decorating services; office supplies; mail order or catalog
sales; bicycles; and automotive parts and accessories (excluding service and
installation). General retail services include:
   A.   Large Retail Services. Establishments providing retail services,
occupying facilities between 10,001 and 40,000 square feet in a single
establishment or multi-tenant facility. Typical establishments provide for
specialty retailing or general-purpose retailing oriented to the City and its
surrounding vicinity.
   B.   Limited Retail Services. Establishments providing retail services,
occupying facilities of 3,000 square feet or less. Typical establishments
provide for specialty retailing or retailing oriented to the City and its
surrounding vicinity.
   C.   Mass Retail Services. Establishments providing retail services,
occupying facilities over 40,000 square feet in a single establishment or
multi-tenant facility. Typical establishments provide for general purpose
retailing oriented to the City and the surrounding region.
   D.   Medium Retail Services. Establishments providing retail services,
occupying facilities between 3,001 and 10,000 square feet in a single
establishment or multi-tenant facility. Typical establishments provide for
specialty retailing or general-purpose retailing oriented to the City and its
surrounding vicinity.
27.   Stables or Riding Academies. The buildings, pens, and pasture areas used
for the boarding and feeding of horses, llamas, or other equine not owned by
the occupants of the premises. This use includes instruction in riding,
jumping, and showing or the riding of equine for hire.
28.   Surplus Sales. Businesses engaged in the sale, including sale by auction,
of used items or new items that are primarily composed of factory surplus or
discontinued items. Surplus sales uses sometimes include regular outdoor
display of merchandise. Typical uses include flea markets, auction houses,
factory outlets, or merchandise liquidators.
29.   Trade Services. Establishments or places of business primarily engaged in
the provision of services that are not retail or primarily dedicated to walk-in
clientele. These services often involve services to construction or building
trades and may involve a small amount of screened, outdoor storage in
appropriate zoning districts. Typical uses include shops or operating bases for
plumbers, electricians, or HVAC (heating, ventilating, and air conditioning)
contractors.
30.   Vehicle Storage (Short-Term). Short-term storage of operating or non-
operating vehicles for a period of no more than 21 days. Typical uses include
storage of private parking tow-away or impound yards but exclude dismantling or
salvage. Long-term storage beyond 21 days, storage of private parking tow-away
and impound yards constitutes an industrial use type (See Section 166.09(11)).
31.   Veterinary Services (General). Veterinary services and hospitals for
small animals. Typical uses include pet clinics, dog and cat hospitals, pet
cemeteries and crematoria, and veterinary hospitals for livestock and large
animals.
32.   Veterinary Services (Large Animal). Veterinary services and hospitals for
large animals such as cows, bulls, horses, and other livestock. Typical uses
include veterinary hospitals for livestock and large animals.
166.08   PARKING USE TYPES.
1.   Off-Street Parking. Parking use types include surface parking of motor
vehicles on a temporary basis within a privately or publicly owned off-street
parking facility.
2.   Parking Structure. The use of a site for a multilevel building which
provides for the parking of motor vehicles on a temporary basis, other than as
an accessory to a principal use on the same site.
166.09   INDUSTRIAL USE TYPES.
Industrial use types include the on-site extraction or production of goods by
nonagricultural methods, and the storage and distribution of products.
1.   Automotive and Equipment Services. Establishments or places of business
primarily engaged in sale or service of automobiles, trucks, or heavy
equipment. The following are considered automotive, and equipment use types:
   A.   Automotive Rental and Sales. Sale or rental of automobiles,
noncommercial trucks, motorcycles, motor homes, recreational vehicles or boats,
including incidental storage, maintenance, and servicing. Typical uses include
new and used car dealerships; motorcycle dealerships; and boat, trailer, and
recreational vehicle dealerships.
   B.   Equipment Rental and Sales. Sale or rental of trucks, tractors,
construction equipment, agricultural implements, mobile homes, and similar
heavy equipment, including incidental storage, maintenance, and servicing.
Typical uses include truck dealerships, construction equipment dealerships, and
mobile home sales establishments.
2.   Construction Yards. Establishments housing facilities of businesses
primarily engaged in construction activities, including incidental storage of
materials and equipment on lots other than construction sites. Typical uses are
building contractor’s yards.
3.   Custom Manufacturing. Establishments primarily engaged in the on-site
production of goods by hand manufacturing, within enclosed structures,
involving:
   A.   The use of hand tools, or
   B.   The use of domestic mechanical equipment not exceeding two horsepower,
or
   C.   A single kiln not exceeding eight KW or equivalent.
This category also includes the incidental direct sale to consumers of only
those goods produced on site. Typical uses include ceramic studios, custom
jewelry manufacturing, and candle making shops.
4.   Light Industry. Establishments engaged in the manufacture or processing of
finished products from previously prepared materials, including processing,
fabrication, assembly, treatment, and packaging of such products, and
incidental storage, sales, and distribution. These establishments are
characterized by having no major external environmental effects across property
lines and include no unscreened or unenclosed outdoor storage. Typical uses
include commercial bakeries, dressed beef processing plants, soft drink
bottling, apparel assembly from fabrics, electronics, manufacturing, print
shops and publishing houses.
5.   General Industry. Enterprises engaged in the processing, manufacturing,
compounding, assembly, packaging, treatment or fabrication of materials and
products from prepared materials or from raw materials without noticeable
noise, odor, vibration, or air pollution effects across property lines.
6.   Heavy Industry. Enterprises involved in the basic processing and
manufacturing of products, predominately from raw materials, with noticeable
noise, odor, vibration, or air pollution effects across property lines; or a
use or process engaged in the storage of or processes involving potentially or
actually hazardous, explosive, flammable, radioactive, or other commonly
recognized hazardous materials.
7.   Recycling Collection. Any site which is used in whole or part for the
receiving or collection of any post-consumer, nondurable goods including, but
not limited to glass, plastic, paper, cardboard, aluminum, tin, or other
recyclable commodities.
8.   Recycling Processing. Any site which is used for the processing of any
post-consumer, nondurable goods including, but not limited to glass, plastic,
paper, cardboard, aluminum, tin, or other recyclable commodities.
9.   Resource Extraction. A use involving on-site extraction of surface or
subsurface mineral products or natural resources, excluding site grading for a
specific construction project or preparation of a site for subsequent
development. Typical uses are quarries, borrow pits, sand and gravel
operations, mining, and removal of dirt for off-site use.
10.   Salvage Services. Places of business primarily engaged in the storage,
sale, dismantling or other processing of used or waste materials that are not
intended for reuse in their original forms. Typical uses include automotive
wrecking yards, junkyards, or paper salvage yards.
11.   Vehicle Storage (Long-Term). Long-term storage of operating or non-
operating vehicles for a period exceeding 21 days. Typical uses include storage
of private parking tow-away or impound yards but exclude dismantling or
salvage.
12.   Warehousing (Enclosed). Uses including storage, distribution, and
handling of goods and materials within enclosed structures. Typical uses
include wholesale distributors, storage warehouses, and van and storage
companies.
13.   Warehousing (Open). Uses including open air storage, distribution, and
handling of goods and materials. Typical uses include monument yards, grain
elevators, and open storage.
14.   Warehousing (Enclosed-Limited). Uses including storage, distribution, and
handling of goods and materials that are enclosed in contained packaging or dry
goods, conducted within an enclosed structure, without noticeable odor effects
across property lines, and without generating sound levels in excess of those
specified in Table 167.08 at the boundary of a residential district. In
addition, uses of the property shall comply with the provisions of Section
167.07.
166.10   TRANSPORTATION USE TYPES.
Transportation use types include the use of land for the purpose of providing
facilities supporting the movement of passengers and freight from one point to
another.
1.   Aviation Facilities. Landing fields, aircraft parking and service
facilities, and related facilities for operation, service, fueling, repair,
storage, charter, sales, and rental of aircraft, and including activities
directly associated with the operation and maintenance of airport facilities
and the provision of safety and security.
2.   Railroad Facility. Railroad yards, equipment servicing facilities, and
terminal facilities.
3.   Transportation Terminal. Facility for loading, unloading, and interchange
of passengers, baggage, and incidental freight or package express, including
bus terminals, railroad stations, public transit facilities.
4.   Truck Terminal. A facility for the receipt, transfer, short-term storage,
and dispatching of goods transported by truck.
166.11   MISCELLANEOUS TYPE USES.
1.   Alternative Energy Production Devices. The use of a site for the
production of energy utilizing methods that do not involve the oxidation,
combustion, or fission of primary materials. Typical uses include solar
collector fields, geothermal energy installations, or water-powered mills or
generating facilities.
2.   Amateur Radio Tower. A structure(s) for the transmission or broadcasting
of electromagnetic signals by FCC licensed amateur radio operators.
3.   Communications Tower. A structure(s) for the transmission or broadcasting
of radio, television, radar, or microwaves, ordinarily exceeding the maximum
height permitted in its zoning district. Typical uses include broadcasting
towers and cellular communications towers.
4.   Construction Batch Plant. A temporary demountable facility used for the
manufacturing of cement, concrete, asphalt, or other paving materials intended
for specific construction projects.
5.   Landfill (Non-Putrescible Solid Waste Disposal). The use of a site as a
depository for solid wastes that do not readily undergo chemical or biological
breakdown under conditions normally associated with land disposal operations.
Typical disposal material would include ashes, concrete, paving wastes, rock,
brick, lumber, roofing materials, and ceramic tile.
6.   Landfill (Putrescible and Non-Putrescible Solid Waste Disposal). The use
of a site as a depository for any solid waste except hazardous and toxic waste
as defined by the Federal Environmental Protection Agency or the State. Typical
disposal material would include non-putrescible wastes; and putrescible wastes
such as vegetation, tree parts, agricultural wastes (garbage) and manure.
7.   Wind Energy Conservation System (WECS). Any device that converts wind
energy to a form of usable energy, including wind charges, windmills, or wind
turbines
166.12   GENERAL ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
Zoning Districts are established by this Uniform Land Development Code to
promote compatible land use patterns and to establish site development
regulations appropriate to the purposes and specific nature of each district.
166.13   ESTABLISHMENT AND DESIGNATION OF DISTRICTS.
It shall be the purpose of the Planning and Zoning Commission to recommend the
boundaries of the various original districts and appropriate regulations to be
enforced therein. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall make a preliminary
report and hold public hearings thereon before submitting its final report. The
Council shall not hold its public hearings or take action until it has received
the final report of the Planning and Zoning Commission. The following base
districts and overlay districts are hereby established.
BASE ZONING DISTRICT   DISTRICT NAME
1.   R-1   Urban Residential Single-Family District
2.   R-2   Urban Residential Mixed-Density District
3.   R-3   Urban Residential Multi-Family District
4.   R/CC   Carter Lake Club Special Residential District
5.   RM   Mobile Home Residential District
6.   CL   Locust Street Corridor Mixed-Use District
7.   C-1   Limited Commercial District
8.   C-2   General Commercial District
9.   T-C   Carter Lake Town Center District
10.   C/A   Abbott Drive Corridor Commercial District
11.   BP   Business Park District
12.   M-1   Limited Industrial District
13.   M-2   General Industrial District
166.14   APPLICATION OF DISTRICTS.
A base district designation shall apply to each lot or site within the City and
its planning jurisdiction. A site must be in one base district. Overlay
districts may be applied to any lot or site or any portion thereof, in addition
to a base district designation. Special districts may stand alone as a base
district.
166.15   HIERARCHY.
References in the Unified Land Development Code to less intensive or more
intensively urbanized districts shall be deemed to refer to those agricultural,
residential, commercial, and industrial base zoning districts established in
Section 166.14 and shall represent a progression from the R-1 Urban Residential
Single-Family District as the least intensive to the M-2 General Industrial
District as the most intensive.
166.16   DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
For each zoning district, permitted uses are set forth in the use matrix.
Individual subsections describe the purpose and specific development
regulations for each zoning district. Supplemental regulations may affect
specific land uses or development regulations in each zoning district. The
applicable supplemental regulations are noted in the use matrix.
166.17   ZONING MAP.
1.   Adoption of Zoning Map. Boundaries of zoning districts established by this
Unified Land Development Code shall be shown on the Zoning Map maintained by
the Clerk. This map shall bear the signature of the Mayor attested by the Clerk
under the certification that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to by
this Code. This map, together with all legends, references, symbols,
boundaries, and other information, shall be adopted as a part of, and
concurrent with these regulations. Said Zoning Map shall be on file with the
Clerk and shall be readily accessible to the public at City Hall.
2.   Changes to the Zoning Map. The Council may from time to time adopt a new
Official Zoning Map which shall supersede the prior Official Zoning Map, in the
event that the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged or destroyed; or for
purposes of clarity due to a number of boundary changes, or to correct drafting
errors or omissions; provided, however, that any such adoption shall not have
the effect of amending the original zoning ordinance or any subsequent
amendment thereof. 
EDITOR’S NOTE
The City, adopted the Official Zoning Map, by Ordinance No. 577, on August
28, 2006, the following ordinances have been adopted amending the Official
Zoning Map described in Section 166.17 of this chapter and have not been
codified herein, but are specifically saved from repeal and are in full
force and effect.
ORDINANCE ADOPTED         ORDINANCE ADOPTED
641       August 11, 2014
 
166.18   INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
The following rules shall apply in determining the boundaries of any zoning
district shown on the Zoning Map.
1.   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following lot
lines, such lot lines shall be considered the district boundaries.
2.   Where district boundaries are indicated as within street or alley,
railroad, streams or creeks, or other identifiable rights-of-way, the
centerline of such rights-of-way shall be deemed the district boundary.
3.   Where a district boundary divides a property, the location of the boundary
shall be determined by the use of the scale appearing on the Zoning Map.
4.   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following
corporate limits, such corporate limits shall be considered the district
boundaries.
5.   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following section
lines, quarter section lines, or quarter-quarter section lines, such lines
shall be considered the district boundaries.
6.   Boundaries not capable of being determined as set forth in this section
shall be as dimensioned on the Official Zoning Map or if not dimensioned shall
be determined by the scale shown on the map.
166.19   VACATION OF STREETS AND ALLEYS.
Whenever a public street or alley is vacated, the zoning district adjoining
each side of such right-of-way shall be extended out to the former centerline.
166.20   REQUIRED CONFORMANCE.
Except as specified in this chapter, no building or structure shall be erected,
converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or structurally altered, nor shall any
building or land be used, which does not comply with all of the district
regulations established by this code for the district in which the building or
land is located.
166.21   REQUIRED FRONTAGE.
Except as otherwise provided, no lot shall contain any building used in whole
or in part for residential purposes unless such lot abuts for at least 20 feet
on at least one public street or right-of-way, or unless it has an exclusive
unobstructed private easement of access or right-of-way of at least 20 feet
wide to a street, and there shall be not more than one single-family dwelling
for such frontage or easement, except that a common easement of access at least
50 feet wide may be provided for two or more single-family dwellings or for one
or more two-family or multiple dwellings.
166.22   USE MATRIX: LEVELS OF PERMITTED USES.
Within zoning districts, different uses are permitted with different
conditions. These are displayed in the use matrix. Levels of permission
include:
1.   Uses Which Are Permitted By Right. These uses are permitted subject to
issuance of a Building Permit by the Building Official, subject only to
compliance with all regulations of this Unified Land Development Code. Uses
permitted by right might be subject to supplemental regulations contained in
this Code. These uses are indicated in the use matrix by a “P” in the
applicable cell.
2.   Conditional Uses. These uses are subject to approval of a Conditional Use
Permit by the Planning and Zoning Commission, following the procedure set forth
in Section 165.09. These uses are indicated in the use matrix by a “C” in the
applicable cell.
3.   Site Plan Approval. Some use types require a site plan approval by the
Building Official, based on specific criteria for review. This procedure is set
forth in Section 165.08. These uses are indicated in the use matrix by an
asterisk (*) following the citing of a specific use type.
166.23   GUIDE TO SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATORS.
The regulations set forth in the tables in Sections 166.27 through 166.39
establish the limits and requirements for most development in the City and its
extra-territorial jurisdiction. This section is intended to provide guidance
for applying the regulations contained in these tables.
1.   Site Area Per Housing Unit. This indicates the gross land area per unit
within a residential development. For example, a 20-lot subdivision on a three-
acre (130,680 square foot) tract will have a site area per unit of 6,534 square
feet. Site area per unit, which measures gross density, may differ from minimum
lot size. In planned or water-oriented developments, for example, the site area
per unit may be larger than minimum lot size, permitting the clustering of lots
in exchange for common open space. In multi-family development, the site area
per unit will usually be smaller than minimum lot size, because the lot is the
legal parcel on which a multiple-unit building is built.
2.   Minimum Lot Area. This indicates the minimum size of a legally described
and recorded parcel upon which development can take place. As noted above,
minimum lot area and site area per unit may not be the same.
3.   Minimum Lot Width. This is the required minimum distance connecting at
points along opposite side lot lines, measured at the required front yard
setback. For example, the lot width of an irregular lot in a district requiring
a 25-foot front yard setback is determined by:
   A.   Locating the points along each side lot line at a distance of 25 feet
back from the front property line.
   B.   Drawing a line connecting these two points.
   C.   Measuring the length of this line. The length is the lot width.
4.   Minimum Yards. These define the required setbacks of buildings from front,
side, and rear property lines. While the yard requirements apply to a majority
of development, the Code provides for a number of exceptions. Some of these
include:
   A.   Planned Developments. Front yard setbacks can be varied within Planned
Unit Developments, which are reviewed and approved by the Council after a
recommendation from the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   B.   Major Streets. The Maintenance Supervisor may require greater than
normal setbacks along segments of the City’s major street system, as defined in
the Comprehensive Development Plan.
   C.   Flexibility Provided by Supplemental Development Regulations. Chapter
168 establishes supplemental regulations, many of which provide flexibility or
variations in setback regulations for specific contexts.
   D.   Maximum Setbacks. Some specific zoning districts provide maximum as
well as minimum setbacks. These setbacks establish “build-to” lines that may be
necessary to protect the appearance and character of special urban districts.
5.   Maximum Height. Height normally measures the vertical distance from the
established grade to the highest point of a building. However, as established
by the definition of height, the point of measurement may vary for different
types of buildings and roof slopes.
6.   Maximum Building Coverage. This measures the percentage of a site that may
be covered by the footprint of buildings. Thus, a 20,000 square foot building
on a 40,000 square foot site has a building coverage of 50 percent. This is a
method of regulating the scale of buildings in an area.
7.   Maximum Impervious Coverage. This measures the percentage of a site that
may be covered by buildings and other surfaces and development features which
prevent the penetration of water into the ground (such as driveways, porches,
parking lots, and other features). Limits on impervious coverage help control
the velocity and quantity of stormwater runoff and provide for groundwater
recharge.
8.   Floor Area Ratio. Just as site area per unit controls the density of
residential development, floor area ratio (FAR) controls the density of non-
residential development. FAR is the ratio of gross floor area of a building to
total site area. Thus, in an area with a maximum permitted FAR of 1.0, a 40,000
square foot building may be located on a 40,000 square foot site. Naturally,
because of coverage ratios, landscaping, and parking requirements, such a
building will be multi-story.
9.   Maximum Percentage of Total Parking in Street Yard. This controls the
maximum amount of parking that can be located in the area between a building
facade and the street. When applied in certain zoning districts, it is intended
to reduce the number of cars seen from the street, encourage site planning
which locates parking in rear and side yards, and produce a stronger
relationship between buildings and streets. For example, a project with 100
parking stalls and a 50 percent limit on the amount of parking located in
street yards must locate 50 of its stalls in rear or side yards without street
exposure.
10.   Minimum Depth of Landscaping Adjacent to Street Right-of-Ways. This
establishes the depth of landscaping that must be provided on private property
adjacent and in from the street property line. Thus, if the required minimum
depth is 15 feet, a project must landscape the first 15 feet of its site back
from the street property line. All landscaping must be done in accordance with
Chapter 169 establishing landscaping standards.
11.   Minimum Buffer Yard Requirements. This establishes the depth of a buffer
yard that must be provided by intensive land uses adjacent to primarily
residential land uses in residential zoning districts. All landscaping must be
done in accordance with Chapter 169, establishing landscaping standards.
12.   Supplemental Use Regulations. Certain permitted uses require satisfaction
of specific requirements in order to function successfully in their urban or
rural contexts. These supplemental requirements are set forth in Chapter 167.
These requirements are cross-referenced in the “Supplementary Regulations”
column of the use matrix.
13.   Dwelling Unit. One or more rooms, designed, occupied or intended for
occupancy as a separate living quarter, with cooking, sleeping, and sanitary
facilities provided within the dwelling unit for the exclusive use of a single
family, as defined in this code, maintaining a household.
166.24   SIDEWALKS.
Construction of sidewalks upon any street or court within the City limits where
new construction, residential or non-residential, commences. Said sidewalks
shall conform to the standard set forth under this document, with said
sidewalks being placed as allowed by law, and size of which not being less than
four feet in width. The Building Official is hereby authorized to require the
installation of a sidewalk before granting a permit to develop the property
either on a residential or non-residential basis. Anyone wishing a waiver of
this provision may petition the Council for a specific waiver, and upon
hearing, the Council shall decide by a three-fourths vote to grant a waiver.
Failure to obtain three-fourths vote of the Council at the request for a waiver
shall result in the required installation of said sidewalk.
166.25   POLE BUILDINGS.
No pole buildings shall be erected on any lot in the City without regard to the
zoning of said lot.
166.26   USE MATRIX.
1.   Agricultural Use Types.
 
Use Types           R-1 R-2 R-3 R/CC RM C/L C-1 C-2 TC C/A BP M-1 M-2 P-1
Horticulture                            P   P   P             P   P
Crop Production
Animal Production
Commercial Feedlots
Livestock Sales
P Permitted by right or by right subject to supplemental regulations.
C Permitted by Conditional Use Permit.
* Use permitted after Site Plan Approval.
Blank - Use not permitted in zoning district, unless established as a
lawful nonconforming use.
 
2.   Residential Use Types.
Use Types R-1 R-2 R-3 R/CC RM C/L C-1 C-2 TC C/A BP M-1 M-2 P-1
Use Types                R-1 R-2 R-3 R/CC RM C/L C-1 C-2 TC C/A BP M-1 M-2 P-1
Single-Family Detached   P   P   P   P    P
Single-Family Attached   P   P   P   P
Duplex                   P   P   P
Townhouse                    P   P                       C
Multi-Family*                    P                       C
Manufactured Housing     P   P   P   P    P
Residential
Mobile Home Park*                         P
Mobile Home Subdivision*                  P
Retirement Residential*  C   C   P               P   P   C
P Permitted by right or by right subject to supplemental regulations.
C Permitted by Conditional Use Permit.
* Use permitted after Site Plan Approval.
Blank - Use not permitted in zoning district, unless established as a lawful
nonconforming use.
 
3.   Civic Use Types.
Use Types R-1 R-2 R-3 R/CC RM C/L C-1 C-2 TC C/A BP M-1 M-2 P-1
Use Types             R-1 R-2 R-3 R/CC RM C/L C-1 C-2 TC C/A BP M-1 M-2 P-1
Administration                            P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P   P
Clubs (Recreational)* C   C   C   C    C  P   P   P   C  P   C  P   P
Clubs (Social)*       C   C   C   C    C  P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
College/Uni*                              P   P   P   P  P   P  P
Convalescent Services     C   P        C  P   P   P   C
Cultural Services     C   C   P   C    C  P   P   P   P  P   P  P
Day Care (Limited)    P   P   P   P    P  P   P   P   P  C   C  C   C
Day Care (General)    C   C   P   C    C  P   P   P   P  P   P  C   C   C
Elder Home            C   C   P   C    C  P
Emergency Residential C   C   P   C    C  P   P   P   P
Family Home           C   C   P   C    C  P   P
Group Care Facility*          P           P   P   P   P  P
Group Home                C   P           P   P   P   P  P
Guidance Services                         P   P   P   P  P   P  C   C
Health Care                               P   P   P   P  P   P  C   C   P
Hospitals*                    C           C   C   C   P  P   P  C   C
Maintenance Facility*                     C       C      C      P   P   C
Park and Recreation   P   P   P   P    P  P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
Postal Facilities                         C   P   P   P  P   P  P   P   P
Primary Education*    P   P   P        P  P   P   P   P  C
Public Assembly*                          C   C   C   P  P   C
Religious Assembly*   P   P   P        P  P   P   P   P  P      C
Safety Services       P   P   P   P    P  P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P   P
Secondary Education*  C   C   P        C  P   C   C   C  C
Utilities*            C   C   C   C    C  C   C   C   C  P      P   P   C
P Permitted by right or by right subject to supplemental regulations.
C Permitted by Conditional Use Permit.
* Use permitted after Site Plan Approval.
Blank - Use not permitted in zoning district, unless established as a
lawful nonconforming use.
 
4.   Office Use Types.
 
Use Types          R-1 R-2 R-3 R/CC RM C/L C-1 C-2 TC C/A BP M-1 M-2 P-1
Office Uses
Corporate Offices*         C           P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P   P
General Offices            C           P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P   P
Financial Offices*         C           P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P   P
Medical Offices            C           P   P   P   P  P   P  P   C   P
P Permitted by right or by right subject to supplemental regulations.
C Permitted by Conditional Use Permit.
* Use permitted after Site Plan Approval.
** Missouri River Corridor.
Blank - Use not permitted in zoning district, unless established as a
lawful nonconforming use.
 
5.   Commercial Use Types.
Use Types R-1 R-2 R-3 R/CC RM C/L C-1 C-2 TC C/A BP M-1 M-2 P-1
Use Types                 R-1 R-2 R-3 R/CC RM C/L C-1 C-2 TC C/A BP M-1 M-2 P-1
Commercial Uses
Ag Sales/Service*                                     C             P   P
Auto Services*                                C   C   C             P   P
Body Repair*                                          C             P   P
Equipment Repair*                                     C             P   P
Bed and Breakfast                             P   P   P   P  P
Business Support Services                     P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P   P
Business/Trade School                         C   C   P   P  P   P  P   P
Campground*
Cocktail Lounge                               C   C   C   C  C   C  C   C
Commercial Rec* (Indoor)                      C   C   P   P  P   P  P   P
Commercial Rec* (Outdoor)                                    P      P   P
Communication Service                         P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P   P
Construction Sale/Service                         C   C             P   P   C
Consumer Service                              P   P   P   P  P   P  P       P
Convenience Storage*                                                P   P
Food Sales* (Convenience)                     C   C   C      C   C  P   P   C
Food Sales (Limited)                          P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
Food Sales (General)                          P   P   P   C  P   P  P   P
Food Sales*                                   C   C   C   C  C   C  P   P
(Supermarkets)
Funeral Service                   C           P   P   P      P      P   P
Kennels*                                                            P   P
Laundry Services                                                    P   P
Liquor Sales                                  C   C   C   C  C   C  C   C
Lodging*                                      P   P   P   P  P   P  C   C
Personal Improvement                          P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
Personal Services                             P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
Pet Services                                  P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
Research Services                             P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P   P
Restaurant* (Drive-in)                        C   C   P      P   C  C   C
Restaurant* (General)                         P   P   P   P  P   P  C   C
 
Use Types R-1 R-2 R-3 R/CC RM C/L C-1 C-2 TC C/A BP M-1 M-2 P-1
Use Types                 R-1 R-2 R-3 R/CC RM C/L C-1 C-2 TC C/A BP M-1 M-2 P-1
Restricted Business
Retail Services (Limited)                     P   P   P   P  P   C
Retail Services* (Large)                      C   C   C   C  C   C  P   P
Retail Services* (Mass)                       C   C   C      C      P   P
Stables*
Surplus Sales*                                                      C   C
Trade Services                                C   C   C             P   P   C
Vehicle Storage* (Short-                                            C   C
term)
Veterinary Services                           C   C   C   C  C   C  C   C
P Permitted by right or by right subject to supplemental regulations.
C Permitted by Conditional Use Permit.
* Use permitted after Site Plan Approval.
** Missouri River Corridor.
Blank - Use not permitted in zoning district, unless established as a lawful
nonconforming use.
 
6.   Parking Use Types.
 
Use Types           R-1 R-2 R-3 R/CC RM C/L C-1 C-2 TC C/A BP M-1 M-2 P-1
Off-Street Parking*                     C   C   C   C  C   C  P   P
Parking Structure                       C   C   C   C  C   C  P   P
P Permitted by right or by right subject to supplemental regulations
C Permitted by Conditional Use Permit
* Use permitted after Site Plan Approval
Blank - Use not permitted in zoning district, unless established as a
lawful nonconforming use
 
7.   Industrial Use Types.
Use Types R-1 R-2 R-3 R/CC RM C/L C-1 C-2 TC C/A BP M-1 M-2 P-1
Use Types               R-1 R-2 R-3 R/CC RM C/L C-1 C-2 TC C/A BP M-1 M-2 P-1
Agricultural Industry*                                            C   C
Auto rental/Sales*                                                C
Construction Yards*                                               C   C
Custom Manufacturing                        C       C   C  C      P   P   P
Equipment Rental/Sales                                            C   C   C
Light Industry                                                    P   P   C
General Industry*                                                 P   P
Heavy Industry*                                                       C
Recycling Collection*                                                 C
Recycling Processing*                                                 C
Vehicle Storage* (Long-                                           C   C
term)
Warehousing (Enclosed)                                            P   P   C
Warehousing (Enclosed-                          C   C             P   P
Limited)
Warehousing* (Open)                                               C   C
P Permitted by right or by right subject to supplemental regulations
C Permitted by Conditional Use Permit
* Use permitted after Site Plan Approval
Blank - Use not permitted in zoning district, unless established as a lawful
nonconforming use
 
8.   Transportation Use Types.
 
Use Types                R-1 R-2 R-3 R/CC RM C/L C-1 C-2 TC C/A BP M-1 M-2 P-1
Aviation*                                                       C  C   P   C
Railroad Facilities                                                    C
Truck Terminal*                                                    C   P
Transportation Terminal*                             P      P      P   P   C
P Permitted by right or by right subject to supplemental regulations
C Permitted by Conditional Use Permit
* Use permitted after Site Plan Approval
Blank - Use not permitted in zoning district, unless established as a lawful
nonconforming use
 
9.   Miscellaneous Use Types.
 
Use Types           R-1 R-2 R-3 R/CC RM C/L C-1 C-2 TC C/A BP M-1 M-2 P-1
Alternate Energy                                                  C
Production Devices
Amateur Radio Tower C   C   C   C    C
Comm. Tower*                                                  C   C   C
WECS*                                                             C
P Permitted by right or by right subject to supplemental regulations
C Permitted by Conditional Use Permit
* Use permitted after Site Plan Approval
Blank - Use not permitted in zoning district, unless established as a
lawful nonconforming use
 
166.27   R-1 URBAN RESIDENTIAL SINGLE-FAMILY DISTRICT.
1.   Purpose. This district is intended to provide for conventional single-
family residential development, with gross densities generally below four units
per acre. These areas are characterized by single-family dwellings on
relatively large lots with supporting community facilities and urban services,
including City water and sanitary sewer service. The R-1 designation may also
be used as a “holding zone” prior to subdivision for areas designated in the
Comprehensive Development Plan for residential development.
2.   Site Development Regulations.
Regulator Single-Family Detached Single-Family Attached  Other Permitted Uses
                                 (Subsection 3)
                   Single-Family     Single-Family
Regulator          Detached          Attached (Subsection Other Permitted Uses
                                     3)
Site Area per      8,000 square feet 5,000 square feet
Housing Unit
Minimum Lot Area   8,000 square feet 10,000 square feet   10,000 square feet
Minimum Lot Width  60                80                   80
(feet)
Minimum Yards (feet)
Front Yard         25                25                   25
Side Yard          5                 5                    15
Street Side Yard   20                20                   20
                   Lesser of 20      Lesser of 20 percent
Rear Yard          percent of lot    of lot depth or 25   25
                   depth or 25 feet  feet
Maximum Height     35                35                   35
(feet)
Maximum Building   50 percent        50 percent           30 percent
Coverage
Maximum Impervious 60 percent        60 percent           40 percent
Coverage
Floor Area Ratio   N/A               N/A                  N/A
Maximum Percentage
of Total Parking   N/A               N/A                  N/A
Located in Street
Yard
Minimum Depth of
Landscaping
Adjacent to Street 20                20                   25
Right-Of-Way Line
(feet)
See Section 168.04(2-4) for “separation from other buildings.”
3.   Single-Family Attached Development. Single-family attached development is
subject to the following additional requirements:
   A.   The normal side yard setback requirement must be maintained adjacent to
any lot with an existing structure not within the common development; or not
otherwise designated for zero lot line use.
   B.   An easement for maintenance of the zero-lot line façade is filed with
the County Recorder and the Clerk at the time of application for a Building
Permit.
166.28   R-2 URBAN RESIDENTIAL MIXED DENSITY DISTRICT.
1.   This district is intended to provide for moderate density residential
development, with gross densities generally between four and 12 units per acre.
These developments are characterized by single-family dwellings on moderately
sized lots along with low-density multi-unit residential structures such as
duplexes and townhouses. It provides regulations to encourage innovative forms
of housing development. It adapts to both established and developing
neighborhoods, as well as transitions between single-family and multi-family
areas.
2.   Site Development Regulations.
          Single-Family Single-Family         Townhouse      Other Permitted
Regulator Detached      Attached       Duplex (Subsection 3) Uses
                        (Subsection 4)
                            Single-Family            Townhouse
Regulator     Single-Family Attached      Duplex     (Subsection Other
              Detached      (Subsection              3)          Permitted Uses
                            4)
Site Area per Housing Unit (square feet)
In
Conventional  6,000         5,000         3,000      3,000
Development
In Planned    5,000         5,000         3,000      2,500
Developments
Minimum Lot Area
Conventional  6, 000        5,000         6,000      3,000       6,000
Development
Planned       4,000         4,000         6,000      2,500       6,000
Developments
Minimum Lot Width (feet)
Conventional  60            50            75         35          60
Development
Planned       45            40            65         25          60
Developments
Minimum Yards (feet) (Also See Subsection 5)
Front Yard    25            25            25         25          25
Side Yard on
detached      5             10            10         10          10
sides
Street Side   15            15            15         15          15
Yard
Rear Yard     25            25            25         25          25
Maximum       35            35            35         35          35
Height (feet)
Maximum
Building      45 percent    45 percent    45 percent 45 percent  45 percent
Coverage
Maximum
Impervious    55 percent    55 percent    55 percent 55 percent  55 percent
Coverage
Floor Area    N/A           N/A           N/A        N/A         0.50
Ratio
Maximum
Percentage of
Total Parking N/A           N/A           N/A        N/A         50 percent
Located in
the Street
Yard
Minimum Depth
of
Landscaping
Adjacent to   20            20            20         20          20
Street Right-
of-Way Line
(feet)
3.   Townhouse Development. No more than four units may be attached in a single
townhouse structure within R-2 District.
4.   Single-Family Attached Developments. Within a common development, one
interior side yard may be equal to zero for single-family detached residential
use if:
   A.   The normal side yard setback requirement must be maintained adjacent to
any lot with an existing structure not within the common development; or not
otherwise designated for zero-lot line use.
   B.   An easement for maintenance of the zero-lot line façade is filed with
the County Recorder and the Clerk at the time of application for a Building
Permit.
5.   Flexible Yard Setbacks in Planned Districts. The Planning and Zoning
Commission and Council may vary required minimum setbacks in planned districts.
However, the setback from the façade of a garage to any public or private
street right-of-way (including the boundary of sidewalks) must be at least 20
feet.
6.   Additional Requirements.
   A.   Parking areas, accessory buildings, and garages must be at least 10
feet from a side or rear lot line. A greater separation from residential zoning
districts may be required by Chapter 170.
   B.   No part of a swimming pool, whether temporary or permanent, or its
related structure shall be constructed within seven feet of a property line,
wall, fence, or other structure which can be readily climbed by a children.
166.29   R-3 URBAN RESIDENTIAL MULTI-FAMILY DISTRICT.
1.   Purpose. This district is intended to provide for low and medium density
multi-family residential development, with gross densities generally between 12
and 24 units per acre. These developments often are characterized by low-rise
buildings in multiple structure configurations, with an emphasis on open space,
convenient parking, and, in many cases, common community facilities such as
clubhouses and swimming pools. This district is also appropriate for larger
townhouse complexes, while still accommodating lower density forms of
development.
2.   Site Development Regulations.
          Single-Family Single-Family                               Other
Regulator Detached      Attached      Duplex Townhouse Multi-Family Permitted
                                                                    Uses
             Single-  Single-Family                                Other
Regulator    Family   Attached      Duplex  Townhouse Multi-Family Permitted
             Detached                                              Uses
Site Area per Housing Unit (square feet)
Conventional 6,000    6,000         3,000   2,500     2,000
Development
Planned      5,000    5,000         3,0000  2,000     1,500
Development
Minimum Lot Area
Conventional 6,000    5,000         6,000   3,000     10,000       6,000
Development
Planned      4,000    4,000         6,000   2,500     1 Acre       6,000
Developments
Minimum Lot Width (feet)
Conventional 60       45            75      35        100          60
Development
Planned      45       40            65      25        150          60
Developments
Minimum Yards (feet) (Also See Subsection 5)
Front Yard   25       25            25      25        30           25
Side Yard on
Detached     7*       7*            10*     15*       25           10
Sides
Street Side  15       15            15      15        25           15
Yard
Rear Yard    25       25            25      25        25           25
Maximum      35 feet  35 feet       35 feet 35 feet   35 feet      35 feet
Height
Maximum
Building     55%      55%           55%     55%       55%          45%
Coverage
Maximum
Impervious   65%      65%           65%     65%       65%          55%
Coverage
Floor Area   N/A      N/A           N/A     N/A       0.50         0.50
Ratio
Maximum
Percentage
of Total     N/A      N/A           N/A     N/A       50%          50%
Parking
Located in
Street Yard
Minimum
Depth of
Landscaping
Adjacent to  20 feet  20 feet       20 feet 20 feet   20 feet      20 feet
Street
right-of-way
line
*Five feet for one story and five feet for each additional story.
Setback Requirements Adjacent to R-1 and R-2 Districts – No Requirements
Setback Requirements Curb vs. No Curb – No Requirements
3.   Performance Point Requirements. In order to receive a permit to proceed
with development, the project must attain a minimum of 30 performance points,
achieved as indicated in the tables in Section 166.46 of this chapter.
4.   Family Attached Development. Within a common development, one interior
side yard may be equal to zero for single-family detached.
   A.   The normal side yard setback requirement must be maintained adjacent to
any lot with an existing structure not within the common development; or not
otherwise designated for zero lot line use.
   B.   An easement for maintenance of the zero-lot line façade is filed with
the County Recorder and the Clerk at the time of application for a Building
Permit.
5.   Flexible Yard Setbacks in Planned Districts. The Planning and Zoning
Commission and Council may vary required minimum setback in planned districts.
However, the setback from the front façade of a garage to any public or private
street right-of-way (including the boundary of sidewalks) must be at least 20
feet.
6.   Additional Requirements.
   A.   Parking areas, accessory buildings, and garages must be at least 10
feet from a side or rear lot line. A greater separation from residential zoning
districts may be required by Chapter 170.
   B.   No part of a swimming pool, whether temporary or permanent, or its
related structure shall be constructed within seven feet of a property line,
wall, fence, or other structure which can be readily climbed by a children.
166.30   R/CC CARTER LAKE CLUB SPECIAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
1.   This district recognizes the special quality of the Carter Lake Club
residential district, located north of Avenue Q between 9th Street and 13th
Street. The Club district is characterized by front door access to a system of
sidewalks, with rear access and automobile access provided by looped alleys.
This uniquely designed district is crossed by a boardwalk that extends
northeast from 9th Street and Avenue Q. The internal sidewalks connect to the
Lakeshore Walk along the South Shore of Carter Lake. This district provides
development regulations that are specifically matched to the character of the
Carter Lake Club Addition.
2.   Site Development Regulations.
Regulator Single-Family Detached Single-Family Attached  Other Permitted Uses
                                 (Subsection 4)
                   Single-Family      Single-Family
Regulator          Detached           Attached (Subsection Other Permitted Uses
                                      4)
Site Area per
Housing Unit       4,000              3,000
(square feet)
Minimum Lot Area   4,000              7,000                6,000
Minimum Lot Width  50 feet            45 feet              50 feet
Minimum Yards (feet) from Front Walks
Front Yard from    10                 10                   25
Sidewalks
Side Yard on       5                  5                    10
Detached Sides
Street Side Yard   15                 15                   15
Rear Yard from     10 (20 for garages 10 (20 for garages   10
Alleys             facing alleys)     facing alleys)
Maximum Height     35 feet            35 feet              35 feet
Maximum Building   55%                55%                  55%
Coverage
Maximum Impervious 65%                65%                  65%
Coverage
Floor Area Ratio   N/A                N/A                  N/A
Minimum Depth of
Landscaping
Adjacent to Alley  10 feet            10 feet              10 feet
or Sidewalk Right-
of-Way Line
3.   Single-Family Attached Development. Within a common development, one
interior side yard may be equal to zero for single-family detached residential
use if:
   A.   The normal side yard setback requirement must be maintained adjacent to
any lot with an existing structure not within the common development; or not
otherwise designated for zero lot line use.
   B.   An easement for maintenance of the zero-lot line facade is filed with
the Pottawattamie County Recorder and the City Clerk at the time of application
for a Building Permit.
4.   Garage Setbacks in the Club District. The setback from the front facade of
any new garage to any public or private street right-of-way (including access
alleys) must be at least 20 feet.
166.31   RM MOBILE HOME RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
1.   Purpose. It is recognized that mobile home development, properly planned,
can provide important opportunities for affordable housing. This district
designation provides opportunities for mobile home development within planned
parks or subdivisions, along with the supporting services necessary to create
quality residential neighborhoods. The purpose of this chapter is to provide
for municipal regulation of mobile homes and mobile home parks in furtherance
of the public health, safety, morals, and welfare.
2.   Site Development Regulations.
Regulator Single-Family Detached Other Permitted Uses
Regulator                           Single-Family Detached Other Permitted Uses
Site Area Per Housing Unit          6,000 Sq. Ft.
Minimum Lot Area                    2,800 Sq. Ft.          2,800 Sq. Ft.
Minimum Lot Width                   40 feet                40 feet
Minimum Lot Depth                   70 feet                70 feet
Minimum Yards
Front Yard From Sidewalk            15                     15
Side Yard on Detached Sides         5*                     5*
Street Side Yard                    15                     15
Rear Yard From Alley                5*                     5
Maximum Height (feet)               35                     35
Maximum Building Coverage           45%                    45%
Maximum Impervious Coverage         60%                    60%
Floor Area Ratio                    N/A                    0.50
Maximum Percentage of Total Parking N/A                    50%
Located in Street Yard
Minimum Depth of Landscaping Adjacent to Alley or Sidewalk right-of-way line
Private Street                      10 feet                10 feet
Public Street                       35 feet                35 feet
*Or 10 Feet From Any Other Building
3.   Flexible Yard Setbacks in Planned Districts. The Planning and Zoning
Commission and Council may vary required minimum setbacks in planned districts.
However, the setback from the front façade of a garage to any public or private
street right-of-way including the boundary of sidewalks must be at least 20
feet.
4.   Additional Requirements.
   A.   Parking areas, accessory buildings, and garages must be at least three
feet from a side or rear lot line or 10 feet from any other inhabitable
building. A greater separation from residential zoning districts may be
required by Chapter 170.
   B.   No part of a swimming pool, whether temporary or permanent, or its
related structure shall be constructed within seven feet of a property line,
wall, fence, or other structure which can be readily climbed by a children.
5.   Location of Mobile Homes. It shall be unlawful for any person to park or
place any mobile home on the streets, alleys or highways, any public place, or
on any private land within the City, except as is provided by State law and
this chapter. This section shall not apply to:
   A.   Mobile Home Parks. Mobile homes parked or placed within mobile home
parks.
   B.   Dealer’s Stock. Mobile homes parked upon private property as part of a
dealer’s or a manufacturer’s stock not used as a place for human habitation.
   C.   Manufactured Homes. Manufactured homes exceeding 22 feet in width, or
mobile homes meeting the manufacturing requirements of the State Building Code
and which are converted to real property in accordance with Section 135D.26 of
the Code of Iowa, providing that the location of such manufactured home or
mobile home meets all other requirements imposed by this Code of Ordinances.
6.   Special Permits. The Council, upon application of a mobile home owner, may
issue special permits for the location of mobile homes outside mobile home
parks. The Council shall issue such special permits only when it appears that
location within local mobile home parks is impracticable and public health,
safety and welfare interests will not be seriously affected by granting the
permit. Special permits shall not be granted for periods in excess of 14 days
except in the case of a bona fide owner of a lot or lots who is in the process
of building a permanent home on the premises, in which case, the owner may
occupy the lot(s) with a mobile home for use as a temporary home for a period
not to exceed six months. Not more than one mobile home shall be permitted to
be located on the same premises outside of mobile home parks. At expiration,
permits may be renewed for a like period of time upon submitting to the Council
a new application, together with the reasons for requesting the extension.
7.   Application for Special Permit. Application for a special permit shall be
accompanied by an inspection fee of $1.00. The application shall contain:
   A.   Description of Mobile Home. A description of the applicant's mobile
home.
   B.   Property Description. A property description of the place where the
mobile home will be located.
   C.   Property Owner. The name of the owner of the premises upon which the
mobile home will be located together with the written approval from the owner
of the premises where the mobile home will be located.
   D.   Sanitation Facilities. Information on sanitation facilities of the
mobile home and those available at the place of location.
   E.   Mobile Home Park. A statement concerning the practicability of location
within a local mobile home park.
   F.   Duration of Permit. A statement of the desired duration of the special
permit.
8.   Emergency and Temporary Parking. Nonresidents of the City may park a
travel trailer or motor home on any street, alley, highway or other public
place within the corporate limits of the City subject to a permit being issued
by the City and to any other and further prohibitions, regulations, or
limitations imposed by the traffic and parking regulations pertaining to
streets, alleys, or highways.
9.   Storage Fees and Costs. The owner of any mobile home or modular home
placed or left in a street, alley, highway or other public place within the
City shall be responsible for the costs of towing and storage for said mobile
home or modular home. The charge for storage of said mobile home or modular
home shall be the sum of $50.00 per day.
10.   Authority to Take Possession of Abandoned Property. A police authority
may take into custody any abandoned mobile home or modular home and shall
remove, preserve, store, and dispose of said abandoned property.
11.   Auction Sale. All mobile homes or modular homes impounded by the Police
Department shall be sold pursuant to Section 321.89 and subsequent sections of
the Code of Iowa.
12.   Trailer Park Permit Required. It is unlawful for any person to construct
within the limits of the City any trailer park unless such person shall first
obtain a permit therefore.
13.   Permit Application. Any person desiring to construct a trailer park shall
first file with the Clerk a written application in duplicate on a form
furnished by the City for a trailer park permit. Applications shall be
accompanied by a plat and other documents showing the following information:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant;
   B.   A legal description of the trailer park area, and extent of area to be
used for trailer park purposes;
   C.   The location and legal description of the trailer park;
   D.   Location and site of trailer lots;
   E.   Location, number, and type of service buildings;
   F.   Plans and specifications of all other buildings and improvements
constructed or to be constructed within the trailer park;
   G.   Method and plan of the Building Official;
   H.   Public water supply taps and facilities;
   I.   Method and plan of garbage disposal;
   J.   Plan of electric lighting including the location of exterior park
lights and the electric facilities provided for trailers;
   K.   Incinerator and burning space;
   L.   Children's play area;
   M.   Drainage facilities; and
   N.   Fire protection facilities.
14.   All accompanying plans and specifications, as set out in this section,
shall also be filed in duplicate.
15.   Inspection of Plans. The health department, building, plumbing and
electrical inspectors, Planning and Zoning Commissions, and Fire Chief shall
inspect the proposed plans. If it is found that the proposed trailer park will
be in compliance with all provisions of this chapter and all other applicable
ordinances or statutes, such report shall be made to the Council, which shall
approve the application and issue the permit.
16.   Location Within City Restricted. No trailer park shall be located within
the limits of the City except in a commercial or industrial zone, as designated
by this Code.
17.   Water and Sewer Connection. No trailer park shall be located in the City
unless it has City water available to it, and unless it is connected with the
City’s sanitary sewer system, if available, or proper sanitary facilities if
sewer connection is not so available.
18.   Location in Regard to Setback and Other Buildings. No occupied trailer or
service building shall be located within the City limits within the recognized
setback line for the zoning districts in which such trailer is located, nor
less than 10 feet from any other building. No trailer shall be located nearer
than 15 feet to any public street or highway.
19.   Conformance With Other Ordinances. Nothing in this chapter shall be
deemed or construed to repeal, abrogate, or modify any zoning ordinance or any
provisions thereof in effect in the City.
20.   Site Drainage and Grade. Each park shall be located on a well-drained
site, properly graded to ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools
of water.
21.   Entrance and Exit. Each park shall have a surfaced entrance and exit, the
entrance and exit, or either of them, being not less than 18 feet in width and
plainly marked in the daytime and adequately lighted at night.
22.   Lot Size. Each park shall be divided into lots for each trailer, each lot
having an area not less than 2,800 square feet with a minimum width of 40 feet
and minimum depth of 70 feet.
23.   Driveways. All trailer lots shall face or abut upon a driveway of not
less than 20 feet in width which shall have unobstructed access to a public
street, alley, or highway. All driveways shall be all-weather surfaced, well-
marked in the daytime and lighted at night, with 25-watt lamps at intervals of
100 feet located approximately 15 feet from the ground, or equivalent lighting.
24.   Service Buildings Required. Each park shall provide service buildings to
house toilet facilities, bathing facilities, laundry facilities, and other
sanitary facilities.
25.   Outlet on Lot. Every trailer lot shall be furnished with an electric
service outlet. Such outlet shall be equipped with an externally operated
switch or fuse of not less than 30 amperes capacity and a heavy-duty outlet
receptacle.
26.   Water Supply for Park. An adequate water supply obtained from the water
system of the City must, at all times, be furnished to each trailer park in
sufficient quantities to meet all requirements of the park. The water supply
shall be connected to the individual trailer or be furnished from faucets
conveniently located in the trailer park. A cold-water supply shall be located
on all lots in a trailer park.
27.   Drinking Water System. No common drinking vessels shall be permitted, nor
shall any drinking water faucets be placed in any toilet room or water closet
compartment.
28.   Hot Water Provided. An abundant supply of hot water shall be provided at
all times for bathing, washing, and laundry facilities.
29.   Condition of Service Buildings. All service buildings and the grounds of
the park shall be maintained in a clean, sightly condition and kept free of any
condition that will menace the health of any occupant or the public, or
constitute a nuisance.
30.   Laundry Facilities. The laundry facilities shall be provided in the ratio
of one washing machine for every 20 trailer lots. Dryers shall be provided
sufficient to accommodate the laundry of the trailer occupants. The service
building housing the laundry facilities shall be a permanent structure
complying with all applicable ordinances and statutes regulating buildings,
electrical installations and plumbing and sanitation systems.
31.   Waste System. All waste from showers, toilets, laundries, faucets, and
lavatories shall be wasted into a sewer system extended from and connected with
the City sewer system, if available, otherwise an adequate sanitary disposal
system. All trailer lots in a trailer park shall be equipped with a sanitary
sewer drain for direct connection with a trailer in such lot.
32.   Connection With City Required. All sanitary facilities in any trailer
which are not connected with the City sewer system by means of rigid
connections shall be sealed and their use is declared unlawful.
33.   Wastewater Disposal. In no case shall any wastewater be thrown or
discharged upon the surface of the ground or disposed of by any means other
than provided in this chapter.
34.   Garbage Receptacles. Metal or plastic garbage receptacles shall be
provided on the basis of one receptacle for every four trailer lots, and shall
be located not farther than 50 feet from any trailer lot. The cans shall be
tightly covered and shall be kept in sanitary condition. Garbage and rubbish
shall be collected and disposed of by the City garbage collection service.
Sufficient receptacles shall be provided to prevent littering the ground with
rubbish and debris.
35.   Fire Extinguisher Requirements. Each service building shall be equipped
with not less than one 10-pound ABC extinguisher on each floor or level of the
buildings.
36.   Playing Space. Adequate playing space shall be provided for the children.
37.   Permit Not Transferable. The permit shall not be transferable from one
location to another.
38.   Additions to Trailer. No additions shall be built onto any trailer, which
shall leave a clearance of less than 10 clear feet between the addition and the
next trailer. No addition or enclosure shall be constructed without application
made to the Building Official and a permit issued for such construction. The
necessary permit shall be secured before building such structure, which must
comply with statutes of the State and ordinances of the City pertaining to
housing.
39.   Change of Plan. Any change to be made in a trailer park plan after a
permit to construct a trailer park has been obtained shall be filed with the
Clerk and the approval thereof secured from the Council.
40.   Enclosed or Buried Drain and Sewer Pipes. The connections consisting of
all pipes, fittings, and appurtenances from the drain outlets of the mobile
home to the inlet of the corresponding sewer riser pipe of the sewage system
serving the mobile home park shall be completely enclosed underneath the mobile
home, or if located outside the mobile home, the pipes, fittings, and
appurtenances shall be buried beneath the ground.
41.   Tying Down Mobile Home Against Wind. All trailers, mobile homes, and
trailer coaches shall be affixed to the ground by tie-downs in accordance with
and conforming to the rules and regulations of the Defense Civil Preparedness
Agency Department of Defense, Pamphlet TR75, with respect to protecting mobile
homes from high winds. All trailers must be tied down within 60 days after
being moved into the mobile home park.
42.   Fences. No fence shall be installed without application made to the
Building Official and permit issued for such construction. All fences shall
comply with Chapter 168.07, Fence Regulations, with the following exceptions:
   A.   A six-foot privacy fence shall be allowed from the mid-point of the lot
to the rear property line, height measured from the adjacent ground level
   B.   Corner Lots. Six-foot privacy fences on corner lots shall not be
allowed on the street side of said lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b168fe48573aeee5dd12e80dd0d5a2a53fb43456/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2387.png]
43.   Violation - Penalty. Any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a simple misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined
a sum not exceeding $100.00. Each day in which such violation is permitted to
exist shall constitute a separate offense, and be punishable as such under this
chapter.
166.32   CL LOCUST STREET CORRIDOR MIXED USE DISTRICT.
1.   Purpose. This district recognizes the mixed-use character of the Locust
Street urban corridor. Locust Street is the City’s principal commercial
corridor and represents the boundary between the north part of the City, which
is primarily residential in use, and the south part, which is principally
industrial. In some ways, Locust Street serves as a central business district
for the City. Therefore, this district helps the corridor accommodate a
combination of commercial, and office uses. Design standards will gradually
upgrade the appearance of the street, as it becomes a service corridor for the
nearby airport and convention center. Some uses in the CL District will require
development above normal standards in order to assure compatibility with
surrounding uses.
2.   Site Development Regulations.
Regulator Permitted Uses
Regulator                                                    Permitted Uses
Site Area Per Housing Unit (square feet)
Minimum Lot Area (feet)                                      6,000
Minimum Lot Width (feet)                                     75
Minimum Yards
Front Yard                                                   25 feet*
Side Yard                                                    10 feet
Street Side Yard                                             15 feet
Rear Yard                                                    25 feet
Maximum Height                                               55 feet
Maximum Building Coverage                                    60%
Maximum Impervious Coverage                                  80%
Floor Area Ratio                                             1.0
Maximum Percentage of Total Parking Located in Street Yard   50%
Minimum Depth of Landscaping Adjacent to Street right-of-way 10
line (feet)
*Setbacks Along Urban Corridors. Normal minimum setback is 25 feet. Front
yard setback may be reduced to 15 feet if:
1. No parking is placed within the street yard.
2. The entire street yard area is landscaped, with the exception of
driveways to parking areas or pedestrian access to the principal building
on the site.
This setback flexibility shall not be applied on any street without the
specific approval of the Council.
3.   Performance Point Requirements. In order to receive a permit to proceed
with development, project must attain a minimum of 30 performance points,
achieved as indicated in the tables in Section 166.46 of this chapter.
4.   Special Regulations and Standards.
   A.   Architectural details, including materials, textures, patterns, colors,
and design features used on any facade facing a street or easily seen by the
public shall be included in the plans and approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   B.   All service and loading areas shall be entirely screened from view.
   C.   All buildings and developments shall include a direct, clear, and safe
pedestrian connection from adjacent public sidewalks to the entrances of
buildings within the development.
166.33   C-1 LIMITED COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
1.   Purpose. The C-1 Limited Commercial District is intended for neighborhood
shopping facilities serving the needs of residents of a surrounding residential
area. Allowed commercial and office uses are generally compatible with nearby
residential areas in scale and intensity. Site development regulations are
intended to ensure compatibility in size, scale, and site characteristics with
these residential environments. C-1 districts are generally most appropriate at
intersections of collector or arterial streets, at the edge of residential
areas, in planned commercial areas in newly developing residential districts,
or at other locations where local commercial services are required.
2.   Site Development Regulations for C-1 Districts.
Regulator Permitted Uses
Regulator                                Permitted Uses
Site Area per Housing Unit (square feet) N/A
Minimum Lot Area                         6,000 feet
Minimum Lot Width                        60 feet
Minimum Yards
Front Yard                               15 feet*
Side Yard                                7 feet
Street Side Yard                         15 feet
Rear Yard                                Lesser of 15% of Lot Depth or 20 Feet.
Maximum Height (feet)                    55
Maximum Building Coverage                60%
Maximum Impervious Coverage              80%
Floor Area Ratio                         0.5**
Maximum Percentage of Total Parking      75%
Located in Street Yard
Minimum Depth of Landscaping Adjacent to 10 feet
Street right-of-way line (feet)
*Flexible Yard Setbacks in Planned Districts. The Planning and Zoning
Commission and Council may vary required minimum setbacks in planned districts.
However, the setback from the front façade of a garage to any public or private
street right-of-way (including the boundary of sidewalks) must be at least 20
feet.
**Flexible Floor Area Ratios in Planned Districts. The Planning and Zoning
Commission and Council may increase the maximum floor area ratio for a
development in a planned district.
3.   Performance Point Requirements. In order to receive a permit to proceed
with development, project must attain a minimum of 30 performance points,
achieved as indicated in the tables in Section 166.46 of this chapter.
4.   Special Regulations and Standards.
   A.   Architectural details, including materials, textures, patterns, colors,
and design features used on any façade facing a street or easiest seen by the
public shall be included in the plans and approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   B.   All service and loading areas shall be entirely screened from view.
   C.   All buildings and developments shall include a direct, clear, and safe
pedestrian connection from adjacent public sidewalks to the entrances of
buildings within the development.
166.34   C-2 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
1.   Purpose. The C-2 General Commercial District accommodates a variety of
commercial uses, some of which have significant traffic or visual effect. This
district may include commercial uses that are oriented to services, including
automotive services, rather than retail activities. These uses may create land
use conflicts with adjacent residential areas, requiring provision of adequate
buffering. This district is most appropriately located along major arterial
streets or in areas that can be adequately buffered from residential districts.
Recognizing and appreciating technological advances within types of industry,
permitted uses in this district may now include metal recycling and
reclamation. The Council requires any such operators to apply for and receive
any State or local permits as required by law. The property owner shall adhere
to approved site development regulations contained herein within the Unified
Land Development Code after requesting advice from the Planning and Zoning
Commission and approval of the Council. Nothing herein shall prohibit the City
or the property owner from identifying and rezoning any such proposed
development within a specified boundary area as a P-1 District (Planned
Industrial District) as described in these regulations. Any language in any
other portion of these Unified Land Development Code, including Chapter 172
(Nonconforming Uses and Development) contrary to the terms of this amendment
shall not apply, with the exception of the provision contained in Section
172.01 on “change of ownership.” Properties located within the C-2 General
Commercial District that are rezoned to a P-1 District shall comply with the
most restrictive regulations of either district. The land use matrix and
definitions of approved uses for this district shall be amended to include the
additional uses adopted herein.
2.   Site Development Regulations.
Regulator                                                    Permitted Uses
Minimum Lot Area                                             6,000 feet
Minimum Lot Width                                            65 feet
Minimum Yards
Front Yard                                                   25 feet*
Side Yard                                                    0 feet
Street Side Yard                                             25 feet
Rear Yard                                                    0 feet
Maximum Height (feet)                                        55 feet
Maximum Building Coverage                                    70%
Maximum Impervious Coverage                                  90%
Floor Area Ratio                                             1.0**
Maximum Percentage of Total Parking Located in Street Yard   100%
Minimum Depth of Landscaping Adjacent to Street right-of-way 10 feet
line
*Flexible Yard Setbacks in Planned Districts. However, the setback from the
front façade of a garage to any public or private street right-of-way
(including the boundary of sidewalks) must be at least 20 feet.
**Flexible Floor Area Ratios in Planned Districts. The Planning and Zoning
Commission and Council may increase the maximum floor area ratio for a
development in a planned district.
3.   Performance Point Requirements. In order to receive a permit to proceed
with development, the project must attain a minimum of 30 performance points,
achieved as indicated in the tables in Section 166.46 of this chapter.
4.   Special Regulations and Standards.
   A.   Architectural details, including materials, textures, patterns, colors,
and design features used on any façade facing a street or easiest seen by the
public shall be included in the plans and approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   B.   All service and loading areas shall be entirely screened from view.
   C.   All buildings and developments shall include a direct, clear, and safe
pedestrian connection from adjacent public sidewalks to the entrances of
buildings within the development.
166.35   TC CARTER LAKE TOWN CENTER DISTRICT.
1.   This district is intended to guide development of a new Town Center
District at the 13th Street and Locust Street intersection, as set forth by the
Comprehensive Development Plan. This development plan anticipates the location
of significant community retail services at this intersection and is designed
to maintain pedestrian scale. The concept is designed to provide strong
building definition and public space at the 13th Street and Locust
intersection, while locating parking around proposed building footprints. The
town center concept also permits the incorporation of residential uses in an
overall mixed-use development.
2.   Site Development Regulations.
Regulator Permitted Residential Townhouse Multi-Family Other Permitted Uses
          Uses
Regulator          Permitted        Townhouse     Multi-Family  Other Permitted
                   Residential Uses                             Uses
Site Area per Housing Unit
Conventional                        2,500 sq. ft. 2,000 sq. ft. N/A
Development
Planned                             2,000 sq. ft. 1,500 sq. ft.
Development
Minimum Lot Area (feet)
Conventional                        3,000         10,000        10,000
Development
Planned                             2,500         1.0 Acre
Development
Minimum Lot Width
Conventional                        35 feet       100 feet      No Requirement
Development
Planned                             25 feet       150 feet      No Requirement
Development
Maximum Front Yards (feet)
Locust Street                                                   25 feet
13th Street                                                     25 feet
Other Surrounding                                               25 feet
Streets
Minimum Yards
Front Yard                          25 feet       30 feet       0 feet
Side Yard                           15 feet*      25 feet       0 feet
Street Side Yard                    15 feet       25 feet       0 feet
Rear Yard                           25 feet       25 feet       0 feet
Maximum Height                      35 feet       35 feet       55 feet
(feet)
Maximum Building                    55%           55%           50%
Coverage
Maximum Impervious                  65%           65%           70%
Coverage
Floor Area Ratio**                  N/A           0.50          3.0
Maximum Percentage
of Total Parking                    N/A           50%           50%
Located in Street
Yard
Minimum Depth of
Landscaping
Adjacent to Street Refer to R-3                                 0
right-of-way line
(feet)
*Five Feet for One Story and Five Feet for Each Additional Story.
**Flexible Floor Area Ratios in Planned Districts. The Planning and Zoning
Commission and Council may increase the maximum flood area ratio for a
development in a planned district.
3.   Performance Point Requirement. In order to receive a permit to proceed
with development, the project must attain a minimum of 30 performance points,
achieved as indicated in the tables in Section 166.46 of this chapter.
4.   Special Regulations and Standards.
   A.   Architectural details, including materials, textures, patterns, colors,
and design features used on any façade facing a street or easiest seen by the
public shall be included in the plans and approved by the planning board.
   B.   All buildings and developments shall include a direct, clear, and safe
pedestrian connection from adjacent public sidewalks to the entrances of
buildings within the development. In addition, all buildings in a planned
development shall have paths that provide safe and defined pedestrian access to
all other buildings in the development.
   C.   Non-residential buildings shall be designed to create the appearance of
multiple-tenants, storefronts, and entrances.
   D.   Street orientation includes a consistent building setback, entrances
and windows facing the street, and parking areas located to the rear or side of
buildings.
   E.   All service and loading areas shall be entirely screened from view.
166.36   C/A ABBOTT DRIVE CORRIDOR COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
1.   Purpose. The C/A District addresses development along the Abbott Drive
Corridor. This strategic corridor is undergoing significant development with
commercial and visitor services uses, a demand created by the growth of Eppley
Airfield and the development of Omaha’s Qwest Center. The district regulations
include standards appropriate to this type of development and provide special
performance-based zoning to assure that development in this highly visible
corridor exceeds minimum standards.
2.   Site Development Regulations.
Regulator Permitted Uses
Regulator                                Permitted Uses
Minimum Lot Area                         8,000 feet
Minimum Lot Width                        80 feet
Minimum Yards
Front Yard                               25 feet
Side Yard                                0
Street Side Yard                         0
Rear Yard                                0
Maximum Height                           60 feet unless reduced by airport
                                         approach standards
Maximum Building Coverage                70%
Maximum Impervious Coverage              85%
Floor Area Ratio*                        3.0
Maximum Percentage of Total Parking      75%
Oriented to Abbott Drive
Minimum Depth of Landscaping Adjacent to 15 feet
Street right-of-way line
*Flexible Floor Area Ratios in Planned Districts. The Planning and Zoning
Commission and Council may increase the maximum floor area ratio for a
development in a planned district.
3.   Performance Point Requirements. In order to receive a permit to proceed
with development, the project must attain a minimum of 30 performance points,
achieved as indicated in the tables in Section 166.46 of this chapter.
166.37   BP BUSINESS PARK DISTRICT.
1.   Purpose. The BP Business Park District is intended to promote the
development of planned business parks that accommodate office and commercial
uses. These facilities serve a more regional audience but may provide services
to local residents. They are characterized by extensive landscaping, abundant
parking facilities, and good visual and pedestrian relationships among
buildings. BP zoning is appropriate to existing developments such as Owen
Parkway and other proposed development along the Missouri Riverfront.
2.   Site Development Regulations.
Regulator Permitted Uses
Regulator                                Permitted Uses
Minimum Lot Area                         20,000 feet
Minimum Lot Width                        100 feet
Minimum Yards
Front Yard                               30 feet
Side Yard                                10 feet
Street Side Yard                         25 feet
Rear Yard                                30 feet
Maximum Height                           60 feet unless reduced by airport
                                         approach standards
Maximum Building Coverage                50%
Maximum Impervious Coverage              70%
Floor Area Ratio *                       2.0
Maximum Percentage of Total Parking      50%
Located in Street Yard
Minimum Depth of Landscaping Adjacent to 20 feet
Street right-of-way line
*Flexible Floor Area Ratios in Planned Districts. The Planning and Zoning
Commission and Council may increase the maximum floor area ratio for a
development in a planned district.
3.   Performance Point Requirements. In order to receive a permit to proceed
with development, the project must attain a minimum of 30 performance points,
achieved as indicated in the tables in Section 166.46 of this chapter.
166.38   M-1 LIMITED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
1.   Purpose. The M-1 Limited Industrial District is intended to reserve sites
appropriate for the location of industrial uses with relatively limited
environmental effects. The district is designed to provide appropriate space
and regulations to encourage good quality industrial development, while
assuring that facilities are served with adequate parking and loading
facilities.
2.   Site Development Regulations.
Regulator Permitted Uses
Regulator                                Permitted Uses
Minimum District Size                    10,000 sq. ft.
Minimum Lot Area                         10,000 sq. ft.
Minimum Lot Width                        100 feet
Minimum Yards
                                         25 feet; greater of 35 feet from
Front Yard                               property line or 50 feet from the
                                         centerline along roads on the TEA-21
                                         arterial system
Side Yard                                0 feet
Street Side Yard                         25 feet
Rear Yard                                10 feet
Maximum Height                           75 feet
Maximum Building Coverage                70%
Maximum Impervious Coverage              90%
Floor Area Ratio*                        1.0
Maximum Percentage of Total Parking      100%
Located in Street Yard
Minimum Depth of Landscaping Adjacent to 10 feet
Street Right-of-Way Line
*Flexible Floor Area Ratios in Planned Districts. The Planning and Zoning
Commission and Council may increase the maximum floor area ratio for a
development in a planned district.
3.   Performance Point Requirements. In order to receive a permit to proceed
with development, the project must attain a minimum of 30 performance points,
achieved as indicated in the tables in Section 166.46 of this chapter.
166.39   M-2 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
1.   Purpose. The M-2 General Industrial District is intended to accommodate a
wide variety of industrial uses, some of which may have significant external
effects. These uses may have operating characteristics that create conflicts
with lower intensity surrounding land uses. The district provides the
reservation of land for these activities and includes buffering requirements to
reduce incompatibility
2.   Site Development Regulations.
Regulator Permitted Uses
Regulator                                Permitted Uses
Minimum Lot Areas                        1 acre
Minimum Lot Width                        100 feet
Minimum Yards
                                         25 feet; greater of 35 feet from
Front Yard                               property line or 50 feet from the
                                         centerline along roads on the TEA-21
                                         arterial system
Side Yard                                0 feet
Street Side Yard                         25 feet
Rear Yard                                10 feet
Maximum Height                           75 feet
Maximum Building Coverage                80%
Maximum Impervious Coverage              90%
Floor Area Ratio*                        1.0
Maximum Percentage of Total Parking      100%
Located in Street Yard
Minimum Depth of Landscaping Adjacent to 10 feet
Street Right-of-Way Line
*Flexible Floor Area Ratios in Planned Districts. The Planning and Zoning
Commission and Council may increase the maximum floor area ratio for a
development in a planned district.
3.   Performance Point Requirements. In order to receive a permit to proceed
with development, the project must attain a minimum of 30 performance points,
achieved as indicated in the tables in Section 166.46 of this chapter.
166.40   SPECIAL AND OVERLAY DISTRICTS.
1.   Purpose. Special and Overlay Districts are established as base districts
for innovative developments or unique development areas. They are designed to
encourage innovative design of mixed-use projects, to capitalize on the special
characteristics and visibility of unique areas in the City, and to integrate
special projects into the surrounding environment.
2.   Establishment of Districts. The following special districts are hereby
established.
   A.   MU – Mixed Use District.
   B.   PUD – Planned Unit Development Overlay District.
   C.   W – Water-Oriented/Open Space Development Overlay District.
   D.   FP – Floodplain Overlay District.
166.41   MU MIXED USE DISTRICT.
1.   Purpose. The MU Mixed Use District is intended to accommodate projects
that combine several compatible land uses into an integrated development. The
MU District may also be used to pre-designate parts of the City that are
appropriate for a mixture of residential, commercial, office, and accessory
uses. The district permits mixing residential areas with workplaces and
services. Development in the MU District must accommodate transportation
systems, pedestrian and bicycle movement, and surrounding environments.
2.   Permitted Uses. Each ordinance establishing an MU District establishes the
use types permitted within its boundaries.
3.   Site Development Regulations.
   A.   The minimum area of any MU District is one acre.
   B.   Prior to the issuance of any Building Permits or other authorization,
all projects in the MU District shall receive approval by the Council,
following a recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission. This approval
may be granted for a specific plan for the development of an MU District in
lieu of a plan for individual projects, provided that any subsequent
developments are consistent with the specific plan.
   C.   Applications for approval must contain at a minimum the following
information:
      (1)   A detailed site map, including:
         a.   A boundary survey.
         b.   Site dimensions.
         c.   Contour lines at no greater than five-foot intervals.
         d.   Adjacent public rights-of-way, transportation routes, and
pedestrian or bicycle systems.
         e.   Description of adjacent land uses.
         f.   Utility service to the site and easements through the site.
         g.   Description of other site features, including drainage, soils, or
other considerations that may affect development.
      (2)   A development plan, including:
         a.   A site layout, including the location of proposed buildings,
parking, open space, and other facilities.
         b.   Location, capacity, and conceptual design of parking facilities.
         c.   Description of the use of individual buildings.
         d.   Description of all use types to be included in the project or
area, and maximum floor area devoted to each general use.
         e.   Maximum height of buildings.
         f.   Schematic location and design of open space on the site,
including a landscaping plan.
         g.   Vehicular and pedestrian circulation plan, including relationship
to external transportation systems.
         h.   Schematic building elevations and sections if required to
describe the project.
         i.   Grading plans.
         j.   Proposed sewer and utility improvements.
         k.   Location, sizes, and types of all proposed signage.
      (3)   Specific proposed development regulations for the project,
including:
         a.   The specific use types permitted within the proposed district
         b.   Maximum floor area ratios.
         c.   Front, side, and rear yard setbacks.
         d.   Maximum height.
         e.   Maximum building and impervious coverage.
         f.   Design standards applicable to the project.
         g.   A traffic impact analysis, if required by the City.
4.   Adoption of District.
   A.   The Planning and Zoning Commission and Council shall review and
evaluate each Mixed Use District application. The City may impose reasonable
conditions, as deemed necessary to ensure that a Mixed Use Development shall be
compatible with adjacent land uses, will not overburden public services and
facilities and will not be detrimental to public health, safety, and welfare.
   B.   The Planning and Zoning Commission, after proper notice, shall hold a
public hearing and act upon each application.
   C.   The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend amendments to MU
District applications.
   D.   The recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be
transmitted to the Council for final action.
   E.   The Council, after proper notice, shall hold a public hearing and act
upon any ordinance establishing a MU Mixed Use District. Proper notice shall
mean the same notice established for any other zoning amendment.
   F.   An ordinance adopting a Mixed Use District shall require a favorable
simple majority of the Council for approval.
   G.   Upon approval by the Council, the development plan shall become a part
of the ordinance creating or amending the MU District. All approved plans shall
be filed with the Clerk.
5.   Amendments. Any amendment to these provisions shall be submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Commission and Council for action.
166.42   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT (PUD).
1.   Purpose. The Planned Unit Development (PUD) Overlay District is intended
to provide flexibility in the design of planned projects; to permit innovation
in project design that incorporates open space and other amenities; and to
insure compatibility of developments with the surrounding urban environment.
The PUD District may be used in combination with any base district specified in
this ordinance. The PUD District, which is adopted by the Council with the
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission, assures specific
development standards for each designated project.
2.   Permitted Uses. Uses permitted in a PUD Overlay District are those
permitted in the underlying base district. A PUD also may be combined with an
MU Mixed Use District to allow a combination of use types not anticipated by
conventional base districts.
3.   Site Development Regulations. Site development regulations are developed
individually for each Planned Unit Development District, but must comply with
the minimum or maximum standards established for the base district, with the
following exceptions:
   A.   Lot area and lot width are not restricted, provided that the maximum
density allowed for each base district is not exceeded.
   B.   Maximum building coverage shall be the smaller of the allowed building
coverage in the base district, or 60 percent.
   C.   Setback requirements may be varied according to the specific Planned
Unit Development plan.
4.   Access to Public Streets. Each PUD District must abut a public street or
other public right-of-way for at least 100 feet and allow access from that
street.
5.   Application Process. The application for a Planned Unit Development
District shall include the following information:
   A.   A detailed site map, including:
      (1)   A boundary survey.
      (2)   Site dimensions.
      (3)   Contour lines at no greater than one-foot intervals.
      (4)   Adjacent public rights-of-way, transportation routes, and
pedestrian or bicycle systems.
      (5)   Description of adjacent land uses.
      (6)   Utility service to the site and easements through the site.
      (7)   Description of other site features, including drainage, soils, or
other considerations that may affect development.
   B.   A development plan, including:
      (1)   A land use plan designating specific uses for the site and
establishing site development regulations, including setback, height, building
coverage, impervious coverage, density, and floor area ratio requirements.
      (2)   A site layout, including the location of proposed buildings,
parking, open space, and other facilities.
      (3)   Location, capacity, and conceptual design of parking facilities.
      (4)   Description of the use of individual buildings.
      (5)   Schematic architectural plans and elevations sufficient to indicate
a building height, bulk, materials, and general architectural design.
      (6)   A site development and landscaping plan, showing building
locations, or building envelopes; site improvements; public or common open
spaces; community facilities; significant visual features; and typical
landscape plans.
      (7)   Vehicular and pedestrian circulation plan, including relationship
to external transportation systems.
      (8)   Schematic building elevations and sections if required to describe
the project.
      (9)   Grading plans.
      (10)   Proposed sewer and utility improvements.
      (11)   Location, sizes, and types of all proposed signage.
   C.   A statistical summary of the project, including gross site area, net
site area, number of housing units by type, gross floor area of other uses,
total amount of parking, and building and impervious surface percentages.
6   Adoption of District.
   A.   The Planning and Zoning Commission and Council shall review and
evaluate each Planned Unit Development application. The City may impose
reasonable conditions, as deemed necessary to ensure that a PUD shall be
compatible with adjacent land uses, will not overburden public services and
facilities and will not be detrimental to public health, safety, and welfare.
   B.   The Planning and Zoning Commission, after proper notice, shall hold a
public hearing and act upon each application.
   C.   The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend amendments to PUD
district applications.
   D.   The recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be
transmitted to the Council for final action.
   E.   The Council, after proper notice, shall hold a public hearing and act
upon any ordinance establishing a PUD Planned Unit Development Overlay
District. Proper notice shall mean the same notice established for any other
zoning amendment.
   F.   An ordinance adopting a Planned Unit Development Overlay Zoning
District shall require a favorable simple majority of the Council for approval.
   G.   Upon approval by the Council, the development plan shall become a part
of the ordinance creating or amending the PUD District. All approved plans
shall be filed with the Clerk.
7.   Amendment Procedure. Major amendments to the development plan must be
approved according to the same procedure set forth in Section 165.10.
8.   Building Permits. The City shall not issue a Building Permit, certificate
of occupancy, or other permit for a building, structure, or use within a PUD
District unless it is in compliance with the approved development plan and any
approved amendments.
9.   Termination of PUD District. If no substantial development has taken place
in a Planned Unit Development District for three years following approval of
the district, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall reconsider the zoning of
the property and may, on its own motion, initiate an application for rezoning
the property.
166.43   P-1 PLANNED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
1.   Purpose. The P-1 District is intended to provide for the development of
assemblage facilities, manufacturing facilities, research and development
activities, business services, storage and distribution centers in an
industrial park setting. The facilities in the planned industrial district are
designed to be used in common by sharing ingress and egress roads, ensuring
appropriate design with respect to traffic arteries and compatibility with
surrounding uses. Final authority over development plans shall be retained by
the Council, with extensive review by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
2.   Permitted Uses. Reference Section 166.26, Use Matrix, for the types of
uses permitted.
3.   Site Development Regulations. Minimum tract size, lot size, setback
requirements, height, lot coverage, signage and landscaping shall be determined
through the development plan review procedures described in this section. The
components of an approved development plan shall prevail over conflicting
standards or regulations elsewhere in this Code. The P-1 District must comply
with BP (Business Park) District regulations and performance point requirements
of that district.
4.   Development Plan Review Procedure. The development plan review procedure
shall be as follows:
   A.   Application. Applications for approval must conform to the application
requirements applicable to a MU Mixed Use District, with the following
additions:
      (1)   A letter of intent stating the proposed uses, improvements
necessary to serve the development, construction time frame, and proposed
phasing of the project;
      (2)   The development name and legal description of the boundary;
      (3)   A north arrow, scale, bar scale, and date;
      (4)   The names and addresses of the owner, and the architect or engineer
preparing the plan;
      (5)   All established floodway or floodway fringe encroachment limits;
      (6)   A soils and drainage report prepared by the engineer. The report
shall show the general soil and drainage conditions and include preliminary
recommendations pertaining to the adaptability of the property proposed for
development;
      (7)   Proposed landscaping plan;
      (8)   Proposed signage plan;
      (9)   Architectural drawings, renderings, or other visual documents which
illustrate proposed building design.
   B.   Review by the Planning and Zoning Commission. The Planning and Zoning
Commission, in reviewing the development plan, shall take into consideration
conformance with the comprehensive plan, recognized principles of land use
planning, landscaping, architecture, the conservation and stabilization of the
value of property, adequate open space for light and air, congestion of public
streets, the promotion of public safety, health, convenience, and comfort and
the general welfare of persons using the facility. In addition to the proposed
use meeting the general requirements herein set forth, the board in
recommending approval of the proposed development plan may recommend certain
conditions to be attached to such use which the board deems necessary in order
to carry out the intent and purpose of this Code. Such conditions may include,
but are not limited to an increase in the required lot or yard area, control of
the location and number of vehicular access points to the property, limitations
on the net square footage of signs, lot coverage limitations or height of
buildings because of obstruction to view and reduction of light and air to
adjacent property, required screening and landscaping where necessary to reduce
noise and glare and designation of responsibility for maintenance of the
property.
   C.   Review by Council. The recommendation of the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall be transmitted to the Council for final action. The Council,
after proper notice, shall hold a public hearing and act upon any ordinance
establishing a P-1 District. Proper notice shall mean the same notice
established for any other zoning amendment.
   D.   Building Permit Review. The Building Official shall review all building
and public works construction permits for compliance with the approved
development plan. The Building Permit review shall otherwise conform to Section
165.14, Administration Procedure.
5.   Signs and Landscaping and Screening. In addition to signage, landscaping,
and screening approved in the development plan, signage, landscaping, and
screening in this district shall comply with Chapter 171, Signage Regulations,
and Chapter 169, Landscaping and Screening, per the Business Park District.
6.   Supplemental Use Regulations. Developments within the P-1 District shall
conform to Chapter 167, Supplemental Use Regulations. Performance standards for
industrial uses shall conform to the more restrictive provisions of either the
M-1 or M-2 Districts.
166.44   W WATER-ORIENTED/OPEN SPACE DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY DISTRICT.
1.   Purpose. The W Water-Oriented/Open Space Development Overlay District is
intended to require development design standards and techniques in developments
that incorporate significant water features such as canals or ponds, or other
common open space. It allows for lot clustering and lot size reductions, if the
overall gross density of the development is consistent with the underlying
zoning district. For this section the term water is taken to mean privately
owned bodies of water.
2.   Process. Subdivisions in a W Overlay District generally follow the
approval procedures outlined in Chapter 175, establishing the process for
preliminary and final plat approval. Projects that do not require subdivision
follow approval procedures appropriate to the specific project, including
conditional use permits, zoning amendments, site plan review, or other
applicable measures. The requirements and standards included in this section
are in addition to those established procedures.
3.   Permitted Land Uses. Land uses permitted in a W Overlay District are the
same as those permitted in the underlying base district.
4.   Permitted Yield. Developments in W Overlay Districts are permitted the
same density on developable area as would be allowed to conventional
residential development in the underlying zoning district. Yield in housing
units (Y) is calculated by the formula:
Y=   .90(TA)
SA
where:
TA = Total parcel area
0.90 = An allowance for the typical percentage of land available after
deducting the area of public streets and rights-of-way serving a low-density
residential development.
SA = Minimum site area per unit required by the underlying zoning district.
5.   Minimum Percentage of Water Area or Open Space.
   A.   The minimum percentage of land that shall be designated as permanent
water area or open space, not to be further subdivided, shall be a minimum of
25 percent of the net developable area, defined as 0.90 (TA-UA).
   B.   The above areas shall generally be designated as undivided open space,
to facilitate easement monitoring and enforcement, and to promote appropriate
management by a single entity according to approved land management standards.
   C.   All undivided open space and any lot capable of further subdivision
shall be restricted from further subdivision through a permanent conservation
easement, in a form acceptable to the City and duly recorded with the County
Recorder.
   D.   Stormwater management ponds or basins may be included as part of the
minimum required open space, as may land within the rights-of-way for
underground pipelines. However, land within the right-of-way of high-tension
power lines shall not be included as comprising part of the minimum required
open space.
6.   Location Standards for Open Space. Undivided open space shall be directly
accessible to the largest practicable number of lots within a water-oriented
development. To achieve this, the majority of house lots should abut undivided
open space in order to provide direct views and access.
7.   Ownership and Maintenance of Common Open Space. Developments in the W
Overlay District shall provide for ownership and maintenance of water areas or
common open space. Common open space within a development shall be owned,
administered, and maintained by any of the following methods, either
individually or in combination, and subject to approval by the City.
   A.   Dedication. Water or open space areas may be dedicated to the City if
such dedication is consistent with the parks and open space component of the
City’s Comprehensive Development Plan. Dedication shall take the form of a fee
simple ownership. Alternatively, a public agency may accept an easement,
subject to the above conditions.
   B.   Homeowners Association. The undivided water or open space and
associated facilities may be held in common ownership by a homeowners'
association. The association shall be formed and operated under the following
provisions:
      (1)   The developer shall provide to the Clerk a description of the
association, including its bylaws and methods for maintaining the open space.
      (2)   The association shall be organized by the developer and shall be
operated with financial assistance from the developer, before the sale of any
lots within the development.
      (3)   Membership in the association is automatic (mandatory) for all
purchasers of homes therein and their successors. The conditions and timing of
transferring control of the association from developer to homeowners shall be
identified.
      (4)   The association shall be responsible for maintenance of insurance
and taxes on water area or undivided open space.
      (5)   The members of the association shall share equitably the costs of
maintaining and developing such water area or undivided open space. Shares
shall be defined within the association bylaws.
      (6)   In the event of a proposed transfer, within the methods here
permitted, of water area or undivided open space land by the homeowners’
association, or of the assumption of maintenance of water area or undivided
open space land by a public agency, notice of such action shall be given to all
property owners within the development.
      (7)   The homeowners’ association may lease open space lands to any other
qualified person or corporation for their operation and maintenance.
   C.   Condominiums. The undivided open space and associated facilities may be
controlled through the use of condominium agreements. Such agreements shall be
in conformance with the State statute. All undivided open space land shall be
held as a “common element.”
   D.   Transfer of Easements to a Private Conservation Organization. An owner
may transfer easements to a private, nonprofit organization, among whose
purposes it is to conserve open space or natural resources, provided that:
      (1)   The organization is acceptable to the City and is a bona fide
conservation organization with perpetual existence;
      (2)   The conveyance contains appropriate provisions for proper reverter
or retransfer in the event that the organization becomes unwilling or unable to
continue carrying out its functions; and
      (3)   A maintenance agreement acceptable to the board is entered into by
the developer and the organization.
8   Maintenance Standards.
   A.   Financial Responsibility. The ultimate owner of the open space
(typically a homeowners’ association) shall be responsible for raising all
monies required for operations, maintenance, or physical improvements to the
open space through annual dues, special assessments, etc. The homeowners’
association shall be authorized under its bylaws to place liens on the property
of residents who fall delinquent in payment of such dues or assessments.
   B.   Maintenance Enforcement.
      (1)   In the event that the association or any successor organization
shall, at any time after establishment of a development containing undivided
open space, fail to maintain the undivided open space in reasonable order and
condition in accordance with the development plan, the City may serve written
notice upon the owner of record, setting forth the manner in which the owner of
record has failed to maintain the undivided open space in reasonable condition.
      (2)   Failure to adequately maintain the undivided open space in
reasonable order and condition constitutes a violation of this ordinance.
      (3)   Should any bill or bills for maintenance of undivided open space by
the City or County be unpaid, a late fee of 15 percent shall be added to such
bills and a lien shall be filed against the premises in the same manner as
other municipal claims.
166.45   FP/FW FLOODPLAIN/FLOODWAY OVERLAY DISTRICT.
1.   Definitions. Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in
this chapter shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in
common usage and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   A.   “Appurtenant structure” means a structure which is on the same parcel
of the property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which
is incidental to the use of the principal structure.
   B.   “Base flood” means the flood having one percent chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year and is also commonly referred to as the “100-year
flood.”
   C.   “Base flood elevation” (BFE) means the elevation floodwaters would
reach at a particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.
   D.   “Basement” means any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or
lowest level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. Also see “lowest
floor.”
   E.   “Development” means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including (but not limited to) buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations or storage
of equipment or materials. “Development” does not include minor projects or
routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities, as defined in this
section. It also does not include gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling or grading.
   F.   “Enclosed area below lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest
enclosed area in a building when all the following criteria are met:
      (1)   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic
pressure during flood events with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions
of Section 166.45(7)(B)(4)(a) of this section.
      (2)   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled, etc.) and
used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access, parking, or
storage.
      (3)   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one
foot above the base flood elevation.
      (4)   The enclosed area is not a basement as defined in this section.
   G.   “Existing construction” means any structure for which the start of
construction commenced before the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
   H.   “Existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
   I.   “Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means
the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
(including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   J.   “Factory-built home” means any structure, designed for residential use
which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed or assembled
in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation, on a
building site. For the purpose of this chapter, factory-built homes include
mobile homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes; and also include
recreational vehicles which are placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days and not fully licensed for and ready for highway use.
   K.   “Factory-built home park or subdivision” means a parcel or contiguous
parcels of land divided into two or more factory-built home lots for sale or
lease.
   L.   “Five hundred (500)-year flood” means a flood, the magnitude of which
has a two-tenths percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year
or which, on average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once every 500
years.
   M.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or
rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
   N.   “Flood insurance rate map” (FIRM) means the official map prepared as
part of (but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study which
delineates both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community.
   O.   “Flood insurance study” (FIS) means a report published by FEMA for a
community issued along with the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Maps. The
study contains such background data as the base flood discharge and water
surface elevations that were used to prepare the FIRM.
   P.   “Floodplain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water as a result of a flood.
   Q.   “Floodplain management” means an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of
floodplains, including (but not limited to) emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, floodproofing and floodplain management regulations.
   R.   “Floodproofing” means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and
sanitary facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such
structures.
   S.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those portions of
the floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to carry
and discharge flood waters or flood flows so that confinement of flood flows to
the floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface elevation of
the base flood by more than one foot.
   T.   “Floodway fringe” means those portions of the Special Flood Hazard Area
outside the floodway.
   U.   “Highest adjacent grade” means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   V.   “Historic structure” means any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places,
maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing of
the National Register.
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district.
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior.
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either: (i) by an approved State program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or (ii) directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   W.   “Lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed area in a
building including a basement except when the criteria listed in the definition
of enclosed area below lowest floor in Subsection 1(F) are met.
   X.   “Maximum damage potential development” means hospitals and like
institutions; buildings or building complexes containing documents, data, or
instruments of great public value; buildings or building complexes containing
materials dangerous to the public or fuel storage facilities; power
installations needed in emergency or other buildings or building complexes
similar in nature or use.
   Y.   “Minor projects” means small development activities (except for
filling, grading, and excavating) valued at less than $500.00.
   Z.   “New construction” (new buildings, factory-built home parks, accessory
structures) means those structures or development for which the start of
construction commenced on or after the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
   AA.   “New factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after
the effective date of the effective date of the first floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   BB.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis.
      (2)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection.
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck.
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   CC.   “Routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities” means
repairs necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do
not trigger a Building Permit, provided they are not associated with a general
improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs
include:
      (1)   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing
roofing tiles and replacing siding.
      (2)   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting,
cabinets, counter tops and similar finish work.
      (3)   Basement sealing.
      (4)   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes.
      (5)   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating or air
conditioning systems, and repairing wells or septic systems.
   DD.   “Special flood hazard area” (SFHA) means the land within a community
subject to the base flood. This land is identified on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A1-30, AE, AH, AO, AR, or A99.
   EE.   “Start of construction” includes substantial improvement, and means
the date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   FF.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground, including (but not limited to) buildings, factories,
sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, grain storage facilities, or
other similar uses.
   GG.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage
condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated materials shall be
included in the estimated cost of repair.
Substantial damage also means flood-related damages sustained by a structure on
two separate occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25 percent of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. Volunteer labor
and donated materials shall be included in the estimated cost of repair.
   HH.   “Substantial improvement” means any improvement to a structure which
satisfies either of the following criteria:
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure taking
place during a 10-year period, the cumulative cost of which, equals or exceeds
50 percent of the market value of the structure either: (i) before the start of
construction of the first improvement of the structure; or (ii) if the
structure has been substantially damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. The term does not, however, include any project for
improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local
health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by
the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions. The term also does not include any alteration of
a historic structure, provided the alteration will not preclude the structure’s
designation as a historic structure.
      (2)   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building
by 25 percent or more. All additions constructed after the effective date of
the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the community shall be
added to any proposed addition in determining whether the total increase in
original floor space would exceed 25 percent.
   II.   “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of
the floodplain management regulations.
   JJ.   “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to
be fully compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
2.   Statutory Authority, Findings of Fact, and Purpose.
   A.   The Legislature of the State has in Chapter 414, Code of Iowa, as
amended, delegated the power to cities to enact zoning regulations to secure
safety from flood and to promote health and the general welfare.
   B.   Findings of Fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic
inundation which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of
the community.
      (2)   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are caused
by: (i) the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood damages
which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately elevated or
otherwise protected from flooding; and (ii) the cumulative effect of
obstructions on the floodplain causing increases in flood heights and
velocities.
      (3)   This chapter relies upon engineering methodology for analyzing
flood hazards which is consistent with the standards established by the
Department of Natural Resources.
   C.   Statement of Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and
preserve the rights, privileges, and property of the City and its residents and
to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, and comfort and
convenience of its residents by minimizing those flood losses described in
Paragraph B(1) of this section with provisions designed to:
      (1)   Reserve sufficient floodplain area for the conveyance of flood
flows so that flood heights and velocities will not be increased substantially.
      (2)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities.
      (3)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement.
      (4)   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
      (5)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
3.   General Provisions.
   A.   Lands to Which Chapter Applies. The provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the City shown on the Official
Floodplain Zoning Map as being within the boundaries of the Floodway, Floodway
Fringe, General Floodplain, and Shallow Flooding (Overlay) Districts, as
established in this section.
   B.   Establishment of Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The Flood Insurance
Rate Maps (FIRM) for Pottawattamie County and Incorporated Areas, City of
Carter Lake, Panels 19155C0394E and 19155C0395E, dated February 4, 2005, which
were prepared as part of the Flood Insurance Study for Pottawattamie County are
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be the Official Floodplain Zoning
Map. The flood profiles and all explanatory material contained with the Flood
Insurance Study are also declared to be a part of this Ordinance.
   C.   Rules for Interpretation of District Boundaries. The boundaries of the
zoning district areas shall be determined by scaling distances on the Official
Floodplain Zoning Map. When an interpretation is needed as to the exact
location of a boundary, the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it
is alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   D.   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be used, and no
structure shall be located, extended, converted, or structurally altered,
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   E.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this chapter
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provision of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with
this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   F.   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by State statutes.
   G.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The standards required by this
chapter are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. This chapter does
not imply that areas outside the designated Floodplain (Overlay) District areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the City, or any officer or employee thereof, for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or on any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
   H.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
section is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this section shall not be affected thereby.
4.   Administration.
   A.   Appointment, Duties and Responsibilities of Local Official. The
Building Official is hereby appointed to implement and administer the
provisions of this chapter and will herein be referred to as the Floodplain
Administrator. Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
shall include (but not necessarily be limited to) the following:
      (1)   Review all Floodplain Development Permit Applications to assure
that the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied.
      (2)   Review Floodplain Development Applications to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, State, and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Department of
Natural Resources for floodplain construction.
      (3)   Record and maintain a record of:
         a.   The elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988)
of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially improved
structures; or
         b.   The elevation to which new or substantially improved structures
have been floodproofed.
      (4)   Notify adjacent communities and counties and the Department of
Natural Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a
watercourse and submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
      (5)   Keep a record of all permits, appeals, and such other transactions
and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this chapter.
      (6)   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administration an annual report
concerning the community’s participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administration.
      (7)   Notify the Federal Insurance Administration of any annexations or
modifications to the community’s boundaries.
      (8)   Review subdivision proposals to ensure such proposals are
consistent with the purpose of this chapter and advise the Board of Adjustment
of potential conflict.
      (9)   Maintain the accuracy of the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Maps
when:
         a.   Development placed within the Floodway (Overlay) District results
in any of the following:
            i.   An increase in the base flood elevations; or
            ii.   Alteration to the floodway boundary.
         b.   Development placed in Zones A, AE, AH, and A1-30 that does not
include a designated floodway will cause a rise of more than one foot in the
base elevation; or
Within six months of the completion of the development, the applicant shall
submit to FEMA all scientific and technical data necessary for a Letter of Map
Revision.
      (10)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with the standards
of this chapter.
      (11)   Forward all requests for variances to the Board of Adjustment for
consideration. Ensure all requests include the information ordinarily submitted
with applications as well as any additional information deemed necessary to the
Board of Adjustment.
   B.   Floodplain Development Permit.
      (1)   Permit Required. A Floodplain Development Permit issued by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development
(any man-made change to improved and unimproved real estate, including but not
limited to buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving,
storage of materials and equipment, excavation, or drilling operations),
including the placement of factory-built homes.
      (2)   Application for Permit. Application shall be made on forms
furnished by the Floodplain Administrator and shall include the following:
         a.   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
         b.   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done
(e.g., lot, block, track, street address or similar description) that will
readily identify and locate the work to be done.
         c.   Location and dimensions of all structures and additions.
         d.   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended.
         e.   Elevation of the base flood.
         f.   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) of
the lowest floor (including basement) of structure or of the level to which a
structure is to be floodproofed.
         g.   For structures being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost of
improvements and market value of the structure prior to the improvements.
         h.   Such other information as the Floodplain Administrator deems
reasonably necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this
chapter.
   C.   Action on Permit Application. The Floodplain Administrator shall,
within a reasonable time, determine whether the proposed floodplain development
meets the applicable standards of this chapter and shall approve or disapprove
the application. For disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed, in writing,
of the specific reasons therefor. The Floodplain Administrator shall not issue
permits for variances except as directed by the Board of Adjustment.
   D.   Construction and Use to Be as Provided in Application and Plans.
Floodplain development permits based on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement, or
construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor,
as appropriate, registered in the State of Iowa, that the finished fill,
structure floor elevations, floodproofing, or other flood protection measures
were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to
the use or occupancy of any structure.
5.   Establishment of Zoning (Overlay) Districts. The floodplain areas within
the jurisdiction of this section are hereby divided into the following
districts:
   A.   Floodway (Overlay) District (FW). Those areas identified as Floodway on
the Official Floodplain Zoning Map.
   B.   Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District (FF). Those areas identified as Zone
AE on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map but excluding those areas identified
as Floodway.
   C.   General Floodplain (Overlay) District (GF). Those areas identified as
Zone A on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map.
   D.   Shallow Flooding (Overlay) District (SF). Those areas identified as
Zone AO or AH on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map.
The boundaries shall be as shown on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map. Within
these districts, all uses not allowed as permitted uses are prohibited unless a
variance to the terms of this chapter is granted after due consideration by the
Board of Adjustment.
6.   Floodway (Overlay) District (FW).
   A.   Permitted Uses. All development within the Floodway District shall be
permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance (or
underlying zoning district) and provided they meet applicable performance
standards of the Floodway District.
   B.   Performance Standards. All Floodway District uses allowed as a
permitted use shall meet the following standards.
      (1)   No development shall be permitted in the Floodway District that
would result in any increase in the base flood elevation. Consideration of the
effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the assumption
that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly situated
lands.
      (2)   All development within the Floodway District shall:
         a.   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
         b.   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
         c.   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage.
      (3)   No development shall affect the capacity or conveyance of the
channel or floodway of any tributary to the mainstream, drainage ditch, or any
other drainage facility or system.
      (4)   Structures, buildings, recreational vehicles, and sanitary and
utility systems, if permitted, shall meet the applicable performance standards
of the Floodway Fringe District, and shall be constructed or aligned to present
the minimum possible resistance to flood flows.
      (5)   Structures, if permitted, shall have a low flood damage potential
and shall not be for human habitation.
      (6)   Storage of materials or equipment that are buoyant, flammable,
explosive or injurious to human, animal or plant life is prohibited. Storage of
other material may be allowed if readily removable from the Floodway District
within the time available after flood warning.
      (7)   Watercourse alterations or relocations (channel changes and
modifications) must be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within
the altered or relocated portion. In addition, such alterations or relocations
must be approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
      (8)   Any fill allowed in the floodway must be shown to have some
beneficial purpose and shall be limited to the minimum amount necessary.
      (9)   Pipeline river or stream crossings shall be buried in the streambed
and banks or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent rupture due to channel
degradation and meandering or due to the action of flood flows.
7.   Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District FF.
   A.   Permitted Uses. All development within the Floodway Fringe District
shall be permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other
ordinance (or underlying zoning district) and provided they meet applicable
performance standards of the Floodway Fringe District.
   B.   Performance Standards. All development must be consistent with the need
to minimize flood damage and meet the following applicable performance
standards. Where base flood elevation data has not been provided on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map, the Iowa Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted
to compute such data. Until a regulatory floodway is designated, no development
may increase the base flood elevation more than one foot. The applicant will be
responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient
technical information to make such determination.
      (1)   All development shall:
         a.   Be designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement.
         b.   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
         c.   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage.
      (2)   Residential Structures. All new or substantially improved
residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation. Construction
shall be upon compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than one
foot above the base flood elevation and extend at such elevation at least 18
feet beyond the limits of any structure erected thereon. Alternate methods of
elevating (such as piers or extended foundations) may be allowed (subject to
favorable consideration by the Board of Adjustment)   where existing
topography, street grades, or other factors preclude elevating by fill. In such
cases, the methods used must be adequate to support the structure as well as
withstand the various forces and hazards associated with flooding. All new
residential structures located in areas that would become isolated due to
flooding of surrounding ground shall be provided with a means of access that
will be passable by wheeled vehicles during the base flood. However, this
criterion shall not apply where the Floodplain Administrator determines there
is sufficient flood warning time for the protection of life and property. When
estimating flood warning time, consideration shall be given to the criteria
listed in 567-75.2(3), Iowa Administrative Code.
      (3)   Nonresidential Structures. All new or substantially improved
nonresidential structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation, or together with
attendant utility and sanitary systems, be floodproofed to such a level. When
floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State of
Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing methods used are adequate to
withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces and
other factors associated with the base flood; and that the structure, below the
base flood elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water. A record of the certification indicating the specific
elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain
Administrator.
      (4)   All New and Substantially Improved Structures.
         a.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (not including
basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
            i.   A minimum of two openings, with positioning on at least two
walls, having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.  
            ii.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
            iii.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
      Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access,
and low damage potential storage.
         b.   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
         c.   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed
with electric meter, electrical service panel box, hot water heater, heating,
air conditioning, ventilation equipment (including ductwork), and other similar
machinery and equipment elevated (or, in the case of non-residential
structures, optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one foot above the base
flood elevation.
         d.   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed
with plumbing, gas lines, water meters, gas meters, and other similar service
utilities either elevated (or in the case of non-residential structures,
optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation or designed to be watertight and withstand inundation to such a
level.
      (5)   Factory-Built Homes.
         a.   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the structure
is a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation.
         b.   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Anchorage systems
may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to
ground anchors as required by the State Building Code.
      (6)   Utility and Sanitary Systems.
         a.   On-site waste disposal and water supply systems shall be located
or designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system
during flooding.
         b.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system as well
as the discharge of effluent into flood waters. Wastewater treatment facilities
(other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood protection
equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood elevation.
         c.   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system. Water
supply treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with
a level of protection equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood
elevation.
         d.   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
      (7)   Storage of Equipment and Materials. Storage of equipment and
materials that are flammable, explosive, or injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one foot above the base
flood elevation. Other material and equipment must either be similarly elevated
or: (i) not subject to major flood damage and anchored to prevent movement due
to flood waters; or (ii) readily removable from the area within the time
available after flood warning.
      (8)   Flood Control Structures. Flood control structural works such as
levees, flood walls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from the base
flood with a minimum of three feet of design freeboard and shall provide for
adequate interior drainage. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources
shall approve structural flood control works.
      (9)   Watercourse Alterations. Watercourse alterations or relocations
must be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources must
approve such alterations or relocations.
      (10)   Subdivision. Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and
subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
chapter. Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during
the base flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than five acres or 50 lots
(whichever is less) shall include base flood elevation data for those areas
located within the Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District.
      (11)   Accessory Structures to Residential Uses.
         a.   Detached garages, sheds, and similar structures that are
incidental to a residential use are exempt from the base flood elevation
requirements where the following criteria are satisfied:
            i.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential. Its size shall not exceed 600 square feet in size. Those portions of
the structure located less than one foot above the base flood elevation must be
constructed of flood-resistant materials.
            ii.   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage
potential purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage. The structure
shall not be used for human habitation.
            iii.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
            iv.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
            v.   The structure’s service facilities such as electrical and
heating equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one foot above
the base flood elevation.
            vi.   The structure’s walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of Subparagraph (4)(a) of this subsection.
         b.   Exemption from the base flood elevation requirements for such a
structure may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of
the structure and its contents.
      (12)   Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles are exempt from the
requirements of Subparagraph (5) of this subsection regarding anchoring and
elevation of factory-built homes when the following criteria are satisfied.
         a.   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less
than 180 consecutive days, and
         b.   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions
Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than 180
consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must satisfy requirements of
Subparagraph (5) of this subsection regarding anchoring and elevation of
factory-built homes.
      (13)   Pipeline Crossings. Pipeline river and stream crossings shall be
buried in the streambed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently protected to
prevent rupture due to channel degradation and meandering.
      (14)   Maximum Damage Potential Development. All new or substantially
improved maximum damage potential development shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated a minimum of one foot above the elevation of the
500-year flood, or together with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be
floodproofed to such a level. When floodproofing is utilized, a professional
engineer registered in the State of Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing
methods used are adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities,
impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with the two tenths
percent annual chance flood; and that the structure, below the two tenths
percent chance flood elevation is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water. A record of the certification indicating
the specific elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to
which any structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain
Administrator. Where a two tenths percent chance flood elevation data has not
been provided in the Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa Department of Natural
Resources shall be contacted to compute such data. The applicant will be
responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient
technical information to make such determinations.
8.   General Floodplain (Overlay) District FP.
   A.   Permitted Uses.
      (1)   All development within the General Floodplain District shall be
permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance (or
underlying zoning district) and provided they meet the applicable performance
standards of the General Floodplain District.
      (2)   Any development which involves placement of structures, factory-
built homes, fill or other obstructions, storage of materials or equipment,
excavation or alteration of a watercourse shall be reviewed by the Department
of Natural Resources to determine: (i) whether the land involved is either
wholly or partly within the floodway or floodway fringe; and (ii) the base
flood elevation. The applicant shall be responsible for providing the
Department of Natural Resources with sufficient technical information to make
the determination.
      (3)   Review by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources is not required
for the proposed construction of new or replacement bridges or culverts where:
         a.   The bridge or culvert is located on a stream that drains less
than two square miles, and
         b.   The bridge or culvert is not associated with a channel
modification that constitutes a channel change as specified in 567-71.2(2),
Iowa Administrative Code.
9.   Shallow Flooding (Overlay) District (SF).
   A.   Permitted Uses. All development within the Shallow Flooding District
shall be permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other
ordinance (or underlying zoning district) and provided they meet the applicable
performance standards of the Shallow Flooding District.
   B.   Performance Standards. The performance standards for the Shallow
Flooding District shall be the same as the performance standards for the
Floodway Fringe District with the following exceptions:
(1)   In shallow flooding areas designated as an AO Zone on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map, the minimum floodproofing or flood protection elevation shall be a
minimum of one foot above the number of feet specified on the FIRM (or a
minimum of 3.0 feet if no number is specified) above the highest natural grade
adjacent to the structure.   
      (2)   In shallow flooding areas designated as an AH Zone on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map, the minimum floodproofing/flood protection elevation shall
be a minimum of one foot above the elevation specified on the FIRM.
      (3)   In shallow flooding areas designated as either an AH or AO Zone on
the Flood Insurance Rate Map, drainage paths are required around structures on
slopes to adequately guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
10.   Appointment and Duties of Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment,
hereinafter referred to as the Board, shall hear and decide: (i) appeals; and
(ii) requests for variances to the provisions of this chapter, and shall take
any other action which is required of the Board.
   A.   Appeals. Where it is alleged that there is any error in any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative official in
the enforcement of this chapter, the aggrieved party may appeal such action.
The notice of appeal shall be filed with the Board and with the official from
whom the appeal is taken and shall set forth the specific reason for the
appeal. The official from whom the appeal is taken shall transmit to the Board
all the documents constituting the record upon which the action appealed from
was taken.
   B.   Variance. The Board may authorize upon request in specific cases such
variances from the terms of this chapter that will not be contrary to the
public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship. Variances
granted must meet the following applicable standards.
      (1)   Variances shall only be granted upon: (i) a showing of good and
sufficient cause; (ii) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and (iii) a determination that
the granting of the variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict with
existing local codes or ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood would result. Consideration of
the effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the
assumption that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly
situated lands.
      (3)   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood
protection for structures than what is ordinarily required by this chapter, the
applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Floodplain
Administrator that: (i) the issuance of a variance will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25.00 for $100.00
of insurance coverage; and (ii) such construction increases risks to life and
property.
      (5)   All variances granted shall have the concurrence or approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
   C.   Hearings and Decisions of the Board.
      (1)   Hearings. Upon the filing with the Board of an appeal or a request
for a variance, the Board shall hold a public hearing. The Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing and give public notice thereof, as well as due
notice to parties in interest. At the hearing, any party may appear in person
or by agent or attorney and present written or oral evidence. The Board may
require the appellant or applicant to provide such information as is reasonably
deemed necessary and may request the technical assistance or evaluation of a
professional engineer or other expert person or agency, including the
Department of Natural Resources.
      (2)   Decisions. The Board shall arrive at a decision on an appeal or
variance within a reasonable time. In passing upon an appeal, the Board may, so
long as such action is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter,
reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed from, and it shall make its decision, in
writing, setting forth the findings of fact and the reasons for its decision.
In granting a variance, the Board shall consider such factors as contained in
this section and all other relevant sections of this chapter and may prescribe
such conditions as contained in Subparagraph b of this paragraph.
         a.   Factors Upon Which the Decision of the Board Shall Be Based. In
passing upon applications for variances, the Board shall consider all relevant
factors specified in other sections of this chapter and:
            i.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights
or velocities caused by encroachments.
            ii.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or
downstream to the injury of others.
            iii.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the
ability of these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary
conditions.
            iv.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
            v.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the City.
            vi.   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location.
            vii.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to
flooding for the proposed use.
            viii.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing
development and development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
            viiii.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive
plan and floodplain management program for the area.
            x.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
            xi.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood water expected at the site.
            xii.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer,
gas, electrical, and water systems), facilities, streets, and bridges.
            xiii.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of
this chapter.
         b.   Conditions Attached to Variances. Upon consideration of the
factors listed above, the Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose of this chapter. Such
conditions may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
            i.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
            ii.   Limitation of periods of use and operation.
            iii.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
            iv.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
dikes, levees, and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the
Department of Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative
to achieving the purpose of this chapter.
            v.   Floodproofing measures shall be designed consistent with the
flood protection elevation for the particular area, flood velocities, duration,
rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, and other factors associated
with the regulatory flood. The Board shall require that the applicant submit a
plan or document certified by a registered professional engineer that the
floodproofing measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection
elevation and associated flood factors for the particular area.
   D.   Appeals to the Court. Any person or persons, jointly or severally,
aggrieved by any decision of the Board may present to a court of record a
petition, duly verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole
or in part, specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be
presented to the court within thirty days after the filing of the decision in
the office of the Board.
11.   Nonconforming Uses.
   A.   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of the ordinance codified in this chapter, but
which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, may be
continued subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   B.   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50
percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred, unless
it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
State or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or regulations, or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
   C.   Except as provided in Subsection A(2) of this section, any use which
has been permitted as a variance shall be considered a conforming use.
12.   Penalties for Violation.  Violations of the provisions of this chapter or
failure to comply with any of the requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variances)
shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails
to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined
not more than $500.00. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained prevents the City from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy violation.
13.   Amendments.  The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may
from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed. No amendment,
supplement, change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval
of the Department of Natural Resources.
166.46   PERFORMANCE POINTS SYSTEM.
1.   Purpose. The Performance Point Evaluation System is designed to ensure
that projects in the highly visible Abbott Drive corridor provide an impression
of high-quality design and amenity. This approach reinforces the major private
investments that have been made in the design of the public right-of-way along
Abbott Drive. The system requires attainment of a specified number of
performance points in order for a project to receive a permit to proceed. It
further provides a variety of optional design features and enhancements to
permit a developer considerable flexibility in choosing appropriate
enhancements.
2.   Application. The performance point evaluation system applies to all
projects proposed within the C/A District and all districts located south of K
Avenue – R-3, C/L, C-1, C-2, TC, C/A, BP, M-1, and M-2.
3.   Performance Point Requirements. In order to receive a permit to proceed
with development, projects must attain a minimum of 30 performance points,
achieved as indicated in the following tables.
4.   Project Evaluation.
   A.   Projects shall be evaluated by the Building Official, who shall
maintain a written record of the evaluation.
   B.   Administrative evaluations by the Building Official that result in the
denial of a project’s approval may be appealed to the Planning and Zoning
Commission. Further appeals of the decision of the Planning and Zoning
Commission may be taken to the Council.
5.   Evaluation Standards.
   A.   Landscaped Areas.
      (1)   Base Standard. All projects must provide landscaping consistent
with the minimum depth and buffer yard standards established by their base
districts and by the landscaping code.
      (2)   Performance Points. Projects earn one point for each foot of
landscaping provided back from the street property line in addition to the
minimum required standards.
   B.   Parking Lot Landscaping.
      (1)   Base Standard. All parking lots accommodating 20 or more cars shall
provide interior landscaping equal to five percent of the paved area of the
parking lot.
      (2)   Performance Points. Projects earn points based on the following
table:
 
Points Action
0      Project meets minimum standards
5      Project provides 1.25 times the base standard for interior landscaping.
10     Project provides 1.50 times the base standard for interior landscaping.
15     Project provides 2.00 times the base standard for interior landscaping.
   C.   Trees.
      (1)   Base Standard. All projects must provide one tree of an approved
species for each 500 square feet of required landscaping as provided by the
Landscaped Area Standards (Section 166.46(5)(A)).
      (2)   Performance Points. Projects earn points based on the following
table:
 
Points Action
0      Project meets minimum standards
5      Project provides 1.25 times the base standard for tree planting.
10     Project provides 1.50 times the base standard for tree planting.
15     Project provides 1.75 times the base standard for tree planting.
20     Project provides 2.00 times the base standard for tree planting.
   D.   Signage.
      (1)   Base Standard. Projects must meet the sign requirement set forth in
Chapter 171, Sign Regulations.
      (2)   Performance Points. Projects earn points based on the following
table:
 
Points Action
0      Total sign area = 80 percent to 100 percent of permitted sign area.
5      Total sign area = 70 percent to 80 percent of permitted sign area.
10     Total sign area = 60 percent to 70 percent of permitted sign area.
15     Total sign area = 50 percent to 60 percent of permitted sign area.
20     Total sign area = Less than 50 percent of permitted sign area.
      (3)   Projects that provide all signage as monument or ground signs earn
an additional 10 points. All such signs must be located outside of vision
clearance zones.
   E.   Parking in Street Yard Facing Abbott Drive.
      (1)   Base Standard. Projects must meet requirements indicated in the
development regulations for individual districts and Chapter 170, Parking
Regulations.
      (2)   Performance Points. Projects earn points based on the following
table:
 
Points Action
0      Meets minimum standards.
5      Reduces the amount of street yard parking by 10 percent below district
       requirements.
10     Reduces the amount of street yard parking by 20 percent below district
       requirements.
15     Reduces the amount of street yard parking by 30 percent below district
       requirements.
20     Reduces the amount of street yard parking by 40 percent below district
       requirements.
   F.   Impervious Coverage.
      (1)   Base Standard. Projects must meet requirements indicated in the
development regulations for individual districts.
      (2)   Performance Points. Projects earn points based on the following
table:
 
Points Action
0      Meets minimum standards.
5      Reduces impervious coverage by 10 percent below district requirements.
10     Reduces impervious coverage by 20 percent below district requirements.
15     Reduces the amount of street yard parking by 30 percent below district
       requirements.
20     Reduces impervious coverage by 40 percent below district requirements.
   G.   Building Articulation.
      (1)   Base Standard. No requirement
      (2)   Performance Points. Projects earn points based on the following
table:
 
Points Action
5      Building provides a minimum offset of five feet for every 100 feet of
       length of the facade parallel to the corridor’s major street.
10     Building provides a minimum offset of five feet for every 75 feet of
       length of the facade parallel to corridor’s major street.
15     Building provides a minimum offset of five feet for every 50 feet of
       length of the facade parallel to corridor’s major street.
H.   Building Materials.
      (1)   Base Standard. No requirement
      (2)   Performance Points. Projects earn points based on the following
table:
 
Points Action
5      30 percent to 50 percent of the non-glazed facade of the building is
       composed of brick or building stone.
10     51 percent to 75 percent of the non-glazed facade of the building is
       composed of brick or building stone.
15     75 percent to 100 percent of the non-glazed facade of the building is
       composed of brick or building stone.
CHAPTER 167
SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS
 
167.01 Purpose                          167.07 Performance Standards in
                                        Industrial Districts
167.02 Supplemental Use Regulations:    167.08 Maximum Permitted Sound Levels
Residential Uses                        Adjacent To Residential Zoning
                                        Districts
167.03 Supplemental Use Regulations:    167.09 Supplemental Use Regulations:
Civic Uses                              Miscellaneous Uses
167.04 Supplemental Use Regulations:    167.10 Supplemental Use Regulations:
Commercial Uses                         Accessory Uses
167.05 Supplemental Design Standard for 167.11 Supplemental Use Regulations:
Non-Residential Districts               Outdoor Storage Outside Of The M-1 and
                                        M-2 Zoning Districts
167.06 Supplemental Use Regulations:    167.12 Supplemental Use Regulations:
Industrial Uses                         Temporary Uses
 
167.01   PURPOSE.
The supplemental use regulations set forth additional standards for certain
uses located within the various zoning districts. These regulations recognize
that certain use types have characteristics that require additional controls in
order to protect public health, safety, and welfare. These regulations
complement the use regulations contained in other sections of this Unified Land
Development Code.
167.02   SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS: RESIDENTIAL USES.
1.   Group Residential Density by Zoning District.
 
                              Maximum Number Minimum Floor
Zoning District Terms of      of Unrelated   Area per         Minimum Site Area
                Permitted Use Persons in     Resident (square per Resident
                              Structure      feet)
R-3             By right      10             400              1,000
C/L             Conditional   10             350              850
C-1             Conditional   6              350              1,000
C-2             Conditional   10             350              850
2.   Mobile Home Parks in the RM District. Mobile home parks and mobile home
residential use are permitted in the RM District. Such use may be configured in
a mobile home park or mobile home subdivision. Following the effective date of
this Code,† 14  no mobile home shall be located outside of a mobile home park
or mobile home subdivision. A mobile home park is subject to compliance with
the following regulations:
   A.   Certification. A certification of compliance with all ordinances and
regulations regarding mobile home licensing, zoning, health, plumbing,
electrical, building, fire protection and any other applicable requirements
shall be required of all mobile home parks.
   B.   Minimum and Maximum Area. A mobile home park shall be considered to be
one zoned lot. The contiguous area of a mobile home park shall be no less than
two acres nor more than 10 acres.
   C.   Density Requirements.
      (1)   The maximum gross density of a mobile home park shall be six units
per acre.
      (2)   The minimum size of an individual mobile home space shall be 6,000
square feet.
      (3)   Each mobile home space shall have a width of at least 50 feet and a
length of at least 70 feet.
   D.   Site Development Standards.
      (1)   Setbacks. Each mobile home park shall have a minimum perimeter
setback of 35 feet. No space for a dwelling unit or any other structure shall
be permitted in the required setback.
      (2)   Setback Landscaping. All area contained within the required
setbacks except sidewalks and private drives shall be landscaped and screened
in conformance with Chapter 169 of this Code. Screening shall be provided in
conformance with Chapter 169 for any common property line with another non-
residential use.
      (3)   Impervious Coverage. Impervious coverage for a mobile home park
shall not exceed 60 percent of the total site area.
      (4)   Open Space. Each mobile home park shall provide a minimum of 300
square feet of open recreational space per unit. Such space shall be provided
at a central location accessible from all parts of the park by pedestrians.
Required perimeter setbacks or buffers shall not be credited toward the
fulfillment of this requirement.
      (5)   Separation Between Mobile Home Units. The minimum separation
between a mobile home unit and attached accessory structure and any other
mobile home units and accessory structure shall be 20 feet.
      (6)   Separation and Setbacks for Accessory Buildings. An accessory
building on a mobile home space maintains a minimum rear and side yard setback
of five feet. A minimum distance of 10 feet shall be provided between any
mobile home and an unattached accessory building.
   E.   Street Access and Circulation Requirements.
      (1)   Access to Public Street. Each mobile home park must abut and have
access to a dedicated public street with a right-of-way of at least 60 feet.
Direct access to a mobile home space from a public street is prohibited.
      (2)   Vehicular Circulation. The mobile home park must provide interior
vehicular circulation on a private internal street system. Minimum interior
street width shall be 28 feet. The street system shall be continuous and
connected with other internal and public streets; or shall have a cul-de-sac
with a radius at the outside of the pavement of at least 25 feet and a radius
at the outside of the right-of-way of at least 40 feet. No such cul-de-sacs may
exceed 600 feet in length.
      (3)   Separation Between Units and Circulation Areas. The minimum
distance between a mobile home unit and any attached accessory structure and
the pavement of an internal street or parking area shall be 10 feet.
      (4)   Sidewalks. Each mobile home park shall provide a sidewalk system to
connect each mobile home space to common buildings or community facilities
constructed for the use of its residents, and to the fronting public right-of-
way. Sidewalk width shall be at least four feet.
      (5)   Street and Sidewalk Standards. All internal streets shall be
asphalt or concrete and sidewalks shall be concrete. Electric street lighting
is required along all internal streets.
      (6)   Parking Requirements. Each mobile home park must provide at least
two off-street parking stalls for each mobile home space.
   F.   Utilities.
      (1)   All mobile home parks shall provide individual units and common
facilities with an adequate, piped supply of hot and cold water for both
drinking and domestic purposes; and standard electrical service, providing at
least one 120-volt and one 240-volt electrical service outlet to each mobile
home space.
      (2)   Complete water and sewer service shall be provided within each
mobile home park in accordance with Chapter 175.
      (3)   Properly spaced and operating fire hydrants shall be provided for
proper fire protection within each mobile home park in accordance with the
Chapter 175.
      (4)   All electric, telephone, gas, and other utility lines shall be
installed underground.
   G.   Financial Responsibility. Each application for a mobile home park shall
include a demonstration by the developer of financial capability to complete
the project, and a construction schedule.
   H.   Completion Schedule. Construction must begin on any approved mobile
home park within one year of the date of approval by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and Council. Such construction shall be completed within two years
of approval, unless otherwise extended by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   I.   All other uses and provisions of the mobile home park regulations are
incorporated herein by reference. These provisions include tie-down and other
structural requirements included in this Code of Ordinances.
3.   Mobile Home Subdivisions in the MH District.
   A.   Mobile home subdivisions shall be developed in accordance with all
standards and requirements set forth in Chapter 175. Site development
regulations shall be the same as those required in the R-2 Zoning District.
Each mobile home shall be considered a single-family detached residential unit
for the purpose of determining applicable development regulations.
   B.   Mobile home units within mobile home subdivisions shall be built in
accordance with the minimum design standards of the US Department of Housing
and Urban Development and display a certification of such compliance. All units
shall be installed on a permanent foundation with complete removal of wheels
and towing packages.
4.   Retirement Residence
   A.   Maximum floor area ratio is 0.5 for buildings up to and including three
stories, 0.75 for buildings from four to six stories, and 1.0 for buildings
over six stories. Number of living units and occupants is determined by floor
area ratio rather than site area per unit regulators.
   B.   Any action that would result in occupancy of the project by persons
less than retirement age requires approval by the Council following a
recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
 
Notes
14 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 663, was passed and approved on March 18,
   2019.
167.03   SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS: CIVIC USES.
1.   Clubs. Clubs located adjacent to residential uses shall maintain a buffer
yard of not less than 15 feet along the common boundary with such residential
use.
2.   Group Care Facilities and Group Homes. Each group care facility or group
home must be validly licensed by either the State or the appropriate
governmental subdivision.
167.04   SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS: COMMERCIAL USES.
1.   Auto Service, Repair, Equipment Repair, and Body Repair.
   A.   Where permitted in commercial districts, all repair activities,
including oil drainage, must take place within a completely enclosed building.
Outdoor storage is permitted only where incidental to auto repair and body
repair, provided that such storage is completely screened so as not to be
visible from residential areas or public rights-of-way. Screening is subject to
provisions of Chapter 169.
   B.   Any spray painting must take place within structures designed for that
purpose and approved by the Building Official.
   C.   All entrances and exits serving gasoline service station, convenience
store offering gasoline sales, or automobile repair shop shall be at least 150
feet from a school, public park, religious assembly use, hospital, or
residential use, as measured along any public street. Such access shall be at
least 40 feet away from any intersection.
All gasoline pumps shall be set back at least 15 feet from any street line.
2.   Auto Washing Facilities.
   A.   Each conveyor-operated auto washing facility shall provide 100 feet of
stacking capacity per washing lane on the approach side of the washing
structure and stacking space for two vehicles on the exit side.
   B   Each self-service auto washing facility shall provide stacking space for
three automobiles per bay on the approach side and one space per bay on the
exit side of the building.
3.   Automobile and Equipment Rental and Sales.
   A.   All outdoor display areas for rental and sales facilities shall be
brick pavers, asphalt, or concrete.
   B.   Body repair services are permitted as an accessory use to automobile
rental and sales facilities, provided that such repair services shall not
exceed 25 percent of the gross floor area of the building.
4.   Construction Sales and Service. Retail home improvement stores and centers
may include outdoor storage of materials and must comply with the following
conditions:
   A.   Architectural design and materials shall be consistent with the current
or projected character of the surrounding area.
   B.   All outside storage or display of merchandise or other materials or
equipment shall be screened from view at eye level from a public street or
adjacent property.
   C.   All storage buildings with overhead doors, drive openings, or open bays
and all loading areas shall be fully screened from view at eye level from a
public street or adjacent property.
   D.   Minimum screening shall be consistent with screening standards set
forth in Chapter 169.
   E.   All areas not occupied by buildings or landscaping shall be paved with
concrete or asphalt.
5.   Convenience Storage. When permitted outside of the M-2 District,
convenience storage facilities shall be subject to the following additional
requirements:
   A.   The minimum size of a convenience storage facility shall be one acre.
   B.   Activities within the facility shall be limited to the rental of
storage cubicles and the administration and maintenance of the facility.
   C.   All driveways within the facility shall provide a paved surface with a
minimum width of 25 feet.
   D.   All storage must be within enclosed buildings and shall not include the
storage of hazardous materials.
   E.   No storage buildings may open into required front yards.
   F.   Facilities must maintain landscaped buffer yards of 35 feet adjacent to
any public right-of-way and 20 feet adjacent to other property lines, unless
greater setbacks are required by Chapter 169.
6.   Kennels.
   A.   The minimum lot size shall be two acres.
   B.   No building or dog runs shall be located nearer than 100 feet from any
property line and 500 feet to the property line of any residential use or
district.
   C.   All kennel facilities shall be screened around their parameters or at
the property lines to prevent distracting or exciting animals. Screening shall
be of a type provided by Chapter 169, establishing landscape and screening
standards.
7.   Marinas. A boat marina, including related commercial sales, boat service,
and amphibious events of sport, skill, or exhibition, shall be located at least
100 feet from the boundary of any residential district, unless such marina is
developed as part of a mixed use or planned unit development, as established by
Sections 166.40 and 166.42.
8.   Restricted (Adult Entertainment) Businesses. See Chapter 127 of the Code
of Ordinances of the entitled “Sexually Oriented Businesses.”
167.05   SUPPLEMENTAL DESIGN STANDARDS FOR NON-RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
1.   Window area on each street-facing facade shall be equal to at least 20
percent of the area of that facade.
2.   Each site design shall provide a clear and safe method of pedestrian
circulation along the street right-of-way and between the street right-of-way
and a principal customer entrance of the business.
3.   Site Design Criteria.
   A.   Buildings shall be oriented so that drive-through canopies, overhead
doors, loading docks or open bays face away from the street. When utilized,
such elements shall be designed as part of the overall building and screened
from the highway or streets.
   B.   Decorative site elements and streetscape elements, e.g. sidewalks and
plazas, sculptures, monuments, fountains, clock towers, landscape lighting,
brick pavers, modular paving, and decorative concrete, shall be used within the
interior of developments to provide visual continuity throughout the
development area and to define special purpose areas.
   C.   Decorative architectural accent lighting, landscape lighting, and
pedestrian light poles shall be located at primary entrances and shall be
located throughout business park, mixed use, commercial, and residential
developments.
   D.   Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area, yard area,
or other structure shall be arranged so as to deflect light away from any
adjoining property and from public streets through fixture type, height (with a
recommended limit of 35 feet), and location. Exterior lighting of residences,
yard areas, and other buildings on said property shall be limited to low level
incandescent spotlights, floodlights, and similar illuminating devices hooded
in such a manner that the direct beam of any light sources will not glare upon
adjacent property or public streets. Exceptions may be considered for sports
and athletic field lighting, flagpole lighting, public street lighting,
temporary lighting for seasonal/holiday or special events, and lighting used
for public safety. Any such exceptions shall be approved by the Building
Official after personal inspection and consultation with adjacent neighbors,
public safety officials, and the City Maintenance Department.
   E.   Stormwater detention areas should be designed to create high quality
focal points or entrance features.
   F.   Developments should preserve natural and scenic areas. Natural physical
features, including existing vegetation and mature trees, should be preserved
to the maximum extent possible and should be incorporated into new
developments. Stream valleys and floodplains are encouraged to be protected and
maintained as open space, greenways, or parks. All site designs should
incorporate public access to these areas.
   G.   The internal transportation network for a development should be
designed to accommodate all modes of transportation and must consist of
interconnecting streets and blocks with respect to the natural landscape. The
internal network should provide alternate routes to every destination to
diffuse traffic. Numerous linkages between properties should be incorporated
into the design of development plans, unless prevented by topography or other
physical conditions.
   H.   All buildings and open space in each development shall be connected to
adjacent developments by sidewalks or trails. An internal system of sidewalks
or paths shall be provided that makes clear and direct connections between
buildings, pad sites, and adjacent developments.
   I.   Interior pedestrian crosswalks shall be delineated with decorative
material.
4.   Building Design and Material Criteria.
   A.   The primary materials used in the construction of primary exposure
facades shall be clay face brick, glaze face brick, architectural faced
concrete block (integrally colored, stained or painted,) glazed face concrete
masonry units (emu), burnished face concrete masonry units (emu), calcium
silicate masonry, or stone shapes of natural or manufactured stone.
   B.   Facades facing interior distribution/loading courts, service courts or
other areas generally not visible to the public, regardless of occupancy or
function, may be of standard faced non­architectural concrete masonry
(integrally colored, stained or painted), stacked or running bond or non-
architecturally finished structural pre-cast concrete panels (integrally
colored, stained or painted). Painted metal may be used as a secondary
material. (No more than 40 percent of the covered area.)
   C.   Window canopies and awnings, where appropriate, shall be constructed of
materials complimentary to the building. Materials with a synthetic or plastic
appearance are discouraged. Indirect lighting of window canopies and awnings is
preferred to backlighting.
   D.   Architectural styles and themes should remain similar and harmonious
within individual developments along the corridor. This does not mean that all
buildings should look identical; rather, each should have similar qualities and
architectural elements. Within each individually planned development,
consistent architectural design, including building materials and colors,
should be carried throughout all buildings. Designs that provide visual
interest and variety, yet are consistent with the theme, are desired.
   E.   Human scale shall be created by building massing and form, as well as
the use of architectural elements such as canopies or porticos, arcades,
colonnades, street-level window displays, raised landscape planters, pedestrian
level lighting, and special building material treatments at the base of the
building.
   F.   Building facades or walls that face a public street shall not have a
blank, uninterrupted length exceeding 50 feet without including at least two of
the following design elements: a change in plane a minimum of five feet, a
change in texture or masonry pattern, windows, or an equivalent element, such
as accent materials that subdivide the wall into human scale proportions.
   G.   The roof design shall provide variations in rooflines to add interest
to and reduce the scale of buildings. Roofs shall include two or more roof
planes with a pitch of at least 5/12 or shall be enclosed by parapet walls if
the pitch is less than 5/12.
   H.   Loading docks and other service areas shall be incorporated into the
building design and screened or located in a manner so as not to be readily
visible from public spaces.
   I.   Any exterior trash receptacle areas shall be designed to be integral to
the building design, of similar materials, and adjacent to the building
whenever possible.
5.   Screening Requirements. Site plans or landscaping plans shall include
details regarding enclosure and screening methods, as required below.
   A.   Refuse and Recycling Receptacles and Enclosures. All waste and
recycling receptacles should be stored within the principal structure or within
an accessory enclosure area, subject to the following:
      (1)   The enclosure shall be located adjacent to the structure whenever
possible.
      (2)   The exterior wall treatment of the enclosure should be of similar
color and materials as the principal structure. Exterior walls should be at
least six feet in height.
      (3)   The enclosure must be accessible to waste and recycling collections
vehicles.
   B.   Mechanical and Other Equipment. Exterior ground-mounted or building-
mounted equipment including, but not limited to, mechanical equipment, utility
meter banks, and coolers shall be screened from public view with landscaping or
with an architectural treatment compatible with the building's architecture.
   C.   Rooftop Equipment. All rooftop equipment shall be screened from public
view with an architectural treatment that is compatible with the building’s
architecture and integral to the overall appearance of the building. The
methods of screening rooftop equipment include, but are not limited to,
encasement or partition screens. Equipment screens are required to be at a
height that is as high as or higher than the equipment that is being screened.
Exceptions may be permitted to the screening requirements in cases where one of
the following criteria is shown to exist:
      (1)   A building is located at a high elevation in relation to
surrounding properties and it is clearly demonstrated that rooftop equipment
will not be visible.
      (2)   A building is located within the middle of an industrial
development and rooftop equipment will not be visible from arterial roadways or
residential properties, nor will it have a negative impact upon any sensitive
areas or scenic view or vistas.
      (3)   A building is sited in such a manner that the location and setback
of rooftop equipment from the building edge, in relation to the elevation and
visibility of surrounding properties, is such that the equipment will not be
visible from any distance.
6.   Outdoor Storage. Outdoor storage or display of merchandise, equipment, or
garden center items is prohibited except for within screened display areas that
are integral to the primary building. Such areas shall be screened from view of
public right-of-way and surrounding residential or public use areas, as
follows:
   A.   The display area design shall be entirely integrated into the
appearance of the building. The display area walls or columns shall be
constructed of the same materials as the primary building façade.
   B.   Screening fences or walls, when utilized, shall be constructed of
attractive, permanent finished materials, compatible with those used in the
construction of the principal structure. The recommended fencing material for
display areas is wrought iron. Chain link fencing and plastic sheeting are
prohibited.
167.06   SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS: INDUSTRIAL USES.
1.   Salvage Services.
   A.   Screening.
      (1)   The perimeter of each new facility shall be fully enclosed by
opaque, freestanding fencing or screen walls. The minimum height of this
enclosure shall be eight feet. Any such enclosure shall be constructed behind
required landscape buffer yards.
   B.   Storage of materials within any salvage services facility shall not be
higher than the height of the surrounding screen fence or wall.
   C.   No new salvage services use may be established within the City limits.
167.07   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS IN INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
1.   Uses in the M-1 District: Performance Standards. The following performance
standards apply to all industrial uses permitted within a M-1 Limited
Industrial zoning district:
   A.   Physical Appearance. All operations shall be carried on within an
enclosed building except that new materials or equipment in operable condition
may be stored outside. Normal daily inorganic wastes may be stored outside in
containers, provided that such containers are not visible from the street.
   B.   Fire Hazard. No operation shall involve the use of highly flammable
gases, acid, liquids, or other inherent fire hazards. This prohibition shall
not apply to the normal use of heating or motor fuels and welding gases when
handled in accordance with the regulations of the County and the City.
   C.   Maximum Permitted Sound Levels Adjacent to Residential Zoning
Districts. No operation in the M-1 district shall generate sound levels in
excess of those specified in Section 167.08 at the boundary of a residential
district. All noises shall be muffled so as not to be objectionable because of
intermittent beat frequency, or shrillness.
   D.   Sewage and Wastes. No operation shall discharge into a sewer, drainage
way, or the ground any material that is radioactive, poisonous, detrimental to
normal sewer plant operation, or corrosive to sewer pipes and installations.
   E.   Air Contaminants. No material may be discharged into the air from any
source in such quantity as to cause injury, detriment, nuisance, or annoyance
to the public in general; or to endanger the health, comfort, or safety of any
considerable number of people or to the public in general; or to damage other
businesses, vegetation, or property. Particulate matter measured at the point
of emission by any generally accepted method shall not be emitted in excess of
0.2 grains per cubic foot as corrected to a temperature of 500 degrees
Fahrenheit.
   F.   Odor. The emission of odors determined by a health inspector to be
obnoxious to most people shall be prohibited. Such odors shall be measured at
the property line of the operation.
   G.   Gases. No release of noxious or poisonous gases shall be permitted
except as provided in this section. Maximum measurements taken at the property
line of the operation shall not exceed five parts per million for sulfur
dioxide, hydrogen sulfide, or carbon monoxide, or one part per million for
nitrous fumes.
   H.   Vibration. All machines shall be mounted to minimize vibration. No
vibration exceeding a displacement of 0.003 inch shall occur at the property
line of the operation.
   I.   Glare and Heat. All glare generated by a use shall be shielded or
directed so as not to be visible at the property line of the operation. No heat
may be generated from an operation that raises the air temperature at the
property line of the operation by more than five degrees Fahrenheit above the
ambient air temperature.
   J.   Storage of Chemical Products. If allowed by a conditional use permit,
below ground storage of liquid petroleum products or chemicals of a flammable
or noxious nature shall not exceed 150,000 gallons when stored on one lot less
than one acre in site. Such storage shall not exceed 25,000 gallons in any one
tank. Storage of liquid petroleum products or chemicals of a flammable or
noxious nature in excess of 25,000 gallons shall be located at least 50 feet
from any structure intended for human habitation and at least 200 feet from any
residential, office, business park, or commercial zoning district.
2.   Uses in the M-2 District: Performance Standards. The following performance
standards apply to all industrial uses permitted within a M-2 General
Industrial zoning district:
   A.   Physical Appearance. Junk, salvage, auto wrecking, and similar
operations shall be screened from view from streets and adjacent properties
consistent with the screening standards of Chapter 169 and the requirements for
salvage services contained in this section.
   B.   Fire Hazard. All flammable substances involved in any activity
established in the district shall be handled in conformance with the latest
edition of the Fire Prevention Code published by the American Insurance
Association and other City regulations.
   C.   Maximum Permitted Sound Levels Adjacent to Residential Zoning
Districts. No operation in the M-2 district shall generate sound levels in
excess of those specified in Section 167.08 at the boundary of a residential
district. All noises shall be muffled so as not to be objectionable because of
intermittent beat frequency, or shrillness.
   D.   Sewage and Wastes. No operation shall discharge into a sewer, drainage
way, or the ground any material that is radioactive, poisonous, detrimental to
normal sewer plant operation, or corrosive to sewer pipes and installations.
   E.   Air Contaminants. No material may be discharged into the air from any
source in such quantity as to cause injury, detriment, nuisance, or annoyance
to the public in general; or to endanger the health, comfort, or safety of any
considerable number of people or to the public in general; or to damage other
businesses, vegetation, or property. Particulate matter measured at the point
of emission by any generally accepted method shall not be emitted in excess of
0.2 grains per cubic foot as corrected to a temperature of 500 degrees
Fahrenheit.
   F.   Odor. The emission of odors determined by the health inspector to be
obnoxious to most people shall be prohibited. Such odors shall be measured at
the property line of the operation.
   G.   Gases. No release of noxious or poisonous gases shall be permitted
except as provided in this section. Maximum measurements taken at the property
line of the operation shall not exceed five parts per million for sulfur
dioxide or hydrogen sulfide, 25 parts per million for carbon monoxide, or five
parts per million for nitrous fumes.
   H.   Vibration. All machines shall be mounted to minimize vibration and
shall not interfere with industrial operations on neighboring lots. No
vibration shall be perceptible on any adjacent lot in a residential zoning
district.
   I.   Glare and Heat. All glare generated by a use shall be shielded or
directed so as not to be visible at the property line of the operation. No heat
may be generated from an operation that raises the air temperature at the
property line of the operation by more than five degrees Fahrenheit above the
ambient air temperature.
   J.   Storage of Chemical Products. Storage of liquid petroleum products or
chemicals of a flammable or noxious nature in excess of 25,000 gallons shall be
located at least 50 feet from any structure intended for human habitation and
at least 200 feet from any residential, office, business park, or commercial
zoning district.
167.08   MAXIMUM PERMITTED SOUND LEVELS ADJACENT TO RESIDENTIAL ZONING
DISTRICTS.
The following table displays the maximum permitted sound levels that may be
generated by uses in the C/L, C-1, C-2, BP, M-1, or M-2 zoning districts where
adjacent to residential zoning districts. All measurements shall be taken at or
within the boundary between the originating district and the adjacent
residential zoning district with a sound level meter meeting ANSI
specifications for a Type II or better general purpose sound level meter. The
A-weighted response shall be used.
 
Maximum Permitted Sound Levels at Residential Boundaries.
Originating Zoning District Time                   Maximum One Hour Leq* (dbA)
C/L, C-1, C-2, BP, M-1      7:00 a.m. – 10:00 p.m60
                            10:00 p.m. – 7:00 a.m55
M-2                         7:00 a.m. – 10:00 p.m65
                            10:00 p.m. – 7:00 a.m55
* Leq is the constant sound level that, in a given situation and time period,
conveys the same sround energy as the actual time-varying A-weighted sound. It
is the average sound level and accurately portrays the sound the human ear
actually hears.
167.09   SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS: MISCELLANEOUS USES.
1.   Communications, Microwave, and Cellular Towers.
   A.   Statement of Intent. The purpose of this section is to provide for the
appropriate location of communication towers and related accessory facilities
to serve the needs of the community. The conditional use procedure set forth
herein provides for the review and discretionary approval of communication
tower sites considering conditions specific to the location while offering
uniform and comprehensive standards for the development of functionally
equivalent services. These regulations are designed to assure the managed
development of the community's communication infrastructure through a timely
and responsible review process.
   B.   Applicability. Communication towers exceeding the maximum height
allowed in the underlying zoning district to a maximum height of 125 feet are
permitted in M-1 and M-2 zoning districts only, subject to approval of the
minimum standards in the section.
      (1)   The following types of communication towers are subject to the
standards and procedure of this chapter.
         a.   UHF, VHF, and cable television.
         b.   AM, FM, and two-way radio.
         c.   Fixed point microwave.
         d.   Wireless communications, including but not limited to paging,
cellular, enhanced specialized mobile radio (ESMR), and personal communications
systems (PCS).
      (2)   An antenna and supporting structure for the following are exempt
from the development standards of this section and are allowed in any zoning
district, if accessory to a permitted use and in compliance with other
applicable regulations of that zoning district.
         a.   Amateur radios licensed by the FCC.
         b.   Citizens band radios.
         c.   Direct broadcast satellite discs.
         d.   Conventional home television antennas, including UHF and VHF
antennas.
      (3)   Towers for police, fire, emergency communications, or other
municipal systems are exempt from the development standards of this section.
      (4)   Towers attached to utility poles located in public right-of-way are
exempt from the development standards of this section. However, placement of
such towers shall be subject to review and approval by the Maintenance
Department and the appropriate utility.
      (5)   Communication facilities to be co-located onto an existing legally
established tower with no increase in height are exempt from the review
procedures of this section. However, documentation of the capacity of the
structure to support weight or wind load from the additional equipment shall be
provided to the Building Official prior to the issuance of a Building Permit.
      (6)   Building-attached facilities, either roof mounted antennas or
antennas attached to the side of a building are exempt from the standards and
conditions of this section. These structures shall be subject to review for
compliance with all applicable federal, State and local regulations by the
Building Official, prior to issuance of any local permits. The Council shall
have the authority to approve placement of communication facilities proposed to
be mounted on other structures such as water tanks, steeples, or other creative
locations, if it is determined that the proposed location is consistent with
the facilities exempted from the procedures of this section.
   C.   Accessory uses. Accessory structures used in direct support of a tower,
including equipment cabinets and fencing shall be allowed, but not broadcast
studios, vehicle storage or other outdoor storage unless otherwise permitted in
the zoning district.
2.   Wind Energy Conservation Systems (WECS).
   A.   The distance from all lot lines or any building or power line to any
tower support base of a WECS shall be equal to the sum of the tower height and
the diameter of the rotor. A reduction of this requirement may be granted as
part of a conditional use permit approval if the Planning and Zoning Commission
finds that the reduction is consistent with public health, safety, and welfare.
   B.   The distance between the tower support bases of any two WECS shall be
the minimum of five rotor lengths, determined by the size of the largest rotor.
A reduction of this requirement may be granted as part of a conditional use
permit approval if the Planning and Zoning Commission finds that the reduction
does not impede the operation of either WECS.
   C.   The WECS operation shall not interfere with radio, television,
computer, or other electronic operations on adjacent properties.
   D.   A fence six feet high with a locking gate shall be placed around any
WECS tower base; or the tower climbing apparatus shall begin no lower than 12
feet above ground.
   E.   The WECS is exempt from the height restrictions of the base district.
3.   Site Plan Review Procedure for Communications, Microwave, Cellular Tower,
and WECS.
   A.   Application. The property owner or their authorized representative may
submit an application for a conditional use permit. The application shall be
filed with the Building Official, along with the required filing fee as set by
resolution of the Council. The following information shall be considered the
minimum. The Building Official shall determine the adequacy and completeness of
the application prior to scheduling the case before the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
      (1)   Legal description and location of the property with a scaled
drawing with north arrow and date, showing the relationship of the parcel to
the surrounding area.
      (2)   A site plan showing all existing and proposed structures located
within the property, total acreage of the parcel, dimensions and distances of
all structures within the property and 200 feet beyond the property line.
      (3)   Engineering information and drawings pertaining to tower design,
building materials, accessory structures, and attached equipment, capacity and
the number and type of antennas.
      (4)   A landscape plan including screening, fencing, lighting and
security measures. Notice or proof of application to the Federal Aviation
Administration, Federal Communications Commission and any other applicable
State or federal regulator allowing a tower at the proposed location. Final
notice shall be required prior to issuance of the Building Permit, if a
conditional use permit is granted.
   B.   Standards and Conditions for Approval. Conditional use permits for the
purpose of installing communication towers shall be evaluated based on the
following information:
      (1)   The type and purpose of the tower.
      (2)   The height of the proposed tower as measured from the natural
undisturbed ground surface below the center of the base of the tower to the tip
of the highest antenna or piece of equipment attached.
      (3)   Minimum setbacks from all adjoining property equal to:
         a.   One hundred percent of the tower height from the base of the
tower to any adjoining residential dwelling, whether located upon residentially
zoned property or not.
         b.   Twenty feet from the base of the tower to any adjoining lot that
is not zoned for residential use.
         c.   The Board of Adjustment may reduce the required setbacks on a
finding that such reduction will not adversely affect adjacent properties and
is consistent with the purpose and intent of this section.
      (4)   Operational characteristics of the facility including maintenance
routines, employee access and security requirements.
      (5)   Landscaping and other buffers proposed to screen the base of the
tower from residential or commercial uses, streets, parks or other public
property.
      (6)   Other proposed measures to minimize the adverse visual effects on
adjacent land including lighting, non-interference with radio and television
reception or other mitigating factors.
      (7)   Proximity to other towers and documentation of incompatibility with
those towers attempts to co-locate or accommodate other providers of the
proposed tower.
      (8)   Towers requiring painting or lighting to meet Federal Aviation
Administration requirements are permitted in any zoning district.
   C.   Additional Regulations.
      (1)   A conditional use permit shall become void one year after the date
of approval unless the applicant has obtained a Building Permit and is in the
process of or has completed construction of the communication tower as
approved.
      (2)   A conditional use permit approved subject to these procedures shall
run with the land and continue to be valid regardless of change of ownership of
either the land or the approved structure; however, the owner is required to
notify the City of any subleases or shared use of the tower.
      (3)   After proper notice of a public hearing on the matter as required
elsewhere in this Code, the Council may revoke a conditional use if it finds
that the use is in violation of the terms of approval.
      (4)   All obsolete or unused towers and accessory facilities shall be
removed at owner’s expense within six months of cessation of operation at the
site. Failure to remove the unused tower within the six-month period of time
shall be considered the basis for revoking the conditional use permit issued
herein. Any new applicant for the use of the tower must reapply for a
conditional use permit and comply with each and every portion of this title as
amended. Additionally, if the tower is obsolete and abandoned for a period of
greater than one year, the Council may notify the owner of the property and the
permit holder of the proposed revocation of the conditional use permit by
sending a letter addressed to the owner of the property at the address of
record to which the real estate taxes are sent and to the permit holder at the
address of record informing the parties that unless the tower is removed within
90 days, the Council will declare the tower a nuisance, abate the nuisance, and
charge the cost of abating the nuisance to the property owner by filing a lien
against the property.
167.10   SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS: ACCESSORY USES.
1.   Home-Based Businesses and Home Occupations. Home-based businesses and home
occupations are permitted as an accessory use in residential units subject to
the following conditions:
   A.   External Effects.
      (1)   There shall be no change in the exterior appearance of the building
or premises housing the home occupation other than signage permitted within
this section.
      (2)   No noise, odors, bright lights, electronic interference, storage or
other external effects attributable to the home occupation shall be noticeable
from any adjacent property or public right-of-way.
      (3)   The home occupation shall be carried on entirely within the
principal residential structure.
      (4)   Mechanical or electrical equipment supporting the home occupation
shall be limited to that which is self-contained within the structure and
normally used for office, domestic or household purposes.
      (5)   No outdoor storage of materials or equipment used in the home
occupation shall be permitted, other than motor vehicles used by the owner to
conduct the occupation. Parking or storage of heavy commercial vehicles to
conduct the home occupation is prohibited.
      (6)   No home occupation shall discharge into any sewer, drainage way, or
the ground any material that is radioactive, poisonous, detrimental to normal
sewer plant operation, or corrosive to sewer pipes and installations.
   B.   Employees. The home occupation shall employ no more than one full-time
or part-time employee on site other than the residents of the dwelling unit,
provided that one off-street parking space is made available and used by that
non-resident employee.
   C.   Extent of Use. For all residential zoning districts, the lesser of 25
percent of the floor area of the principal residential structure or 400 square
feet may be devoted to the home occupation, inclusive of any detached accessory
buildings used for the home occupation.
   D.   Signage. See Chapter 171, Sign Regulations.
   E.   Traffic Generation and Parking.
      (1)   Home-based businesses may generate no more than 10 vehicle trips
per day, corresponding to the amount of traffic normally generated by a
dwelling unit.
      (2)   Deliveries or service by commercial vehicles or trucks rated at 10
tons or more gross empty weight is prohibited for any home-based business
located on a local street.
      (3)   Parking needs generated by a home-based business shall be satisfied
with off-street parking. No more than one vehicle used in connection with any
home occupation shall be parked on the property. Such parking shall not be
located in the required front yard.
   F.   Prohibited Home-Based Businesses and Home Occupations. The following
activities are prohibited as home-based businesses, even if they meet the other
requirements set forth in this section:
      (1)   Animal hospitals.
      (2)   Beauty and barber shops, except with a conditional use permit. Such
uses shall, as part of their application, demonstrate the adequacy of the sewer
system that serves the use.
      (3)   General retail sales.
      (4)   Mortuaries.
      (5)   Repair shops or service establishments including major electrical
appliance repair, motorized vehicle repair, and related uses.
      (6)   Stables or kennels.
      (7)   Welding, vehicle body repair, or rebuilding or dismantling of
vehicles.
2.   Permitted Accessory Uses: Residential Uses. Residential uses may include
the following accessory uses, activities, and structures on the same lot.
   A.   Private garages and parking for the residential use.
   B.   Recreational activities and uses by residents.
   C.   Home occupations, subject to Subsection 1(F) of this section of these
regulations.
   D.   Non-commercial convenience services for the primary use of residents of
multi-family uses or mobile home parks, including laundromats, clubhouses, and
post offices.
   E.   Garage sales, provided that the frequency of such sales at any one
location shall not exceed one during a continuous, two-month period or four
sales during any 12-month period.
3.   Permitted Accessory Uses: Civic Use Types. Guidance services and health
care use types are permitted in the M-1 Limited Industrial Zoning District only
as accessory uses to a primary industrial use.
4.   Permitted Accessory Uses: Other Use Types. Other use types may include the
following accessory uses, activities, and structures on the same lot:
   A.   Parking for the principal use.
   B.   Manufacturing or fabrication of products made for sale in a principal
commercial use, provided such manufacturing is totally contained within the
structure housing the principal use.
   C.   Services operated for the sole benefit of employees of the principal
use.
167.11   SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS: OUTDOOR STORAGE OUTSIDE OF THE M-1 AND
M-2 ZONING DISTRICTS.
Outdoor storage is prohibited in all zoning districts, except the M-1 and M-
2 Zoning Districts, as provided in this section.
1.   Civic Use Types. Outdoor storage is permitted only where incidental to
municipal maintenance facilities.
2.   Commercial Use Types.
   A.   Outdoor storage is permitted where incidental to agricultural sales and
service, auto rentals and sales, construction sales and service, equipment
sales and service, and surplus sales.
   B.   Outdoor storage is permitted where incidental to auto services,
equipment repair, and body repair, provided that such storage is completely
screened at property lines by an opaque barrier, as set forth in Chapter 169.
This provision shall apply to any auto services, equipment repair, or body
repair use established after the effective date of this Code.
3.   Industrial and Miscellaneous Use Types. Outdoor storage is permitted where
it is incidental to industrial uses within the M-1 Zoning District and is
generally permitted in the M-2 Zoning District. Any such outdoor storage is
subject to screening requirements.
167.12   SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS: TEMPORARY USES.
1.   These provisions are intended to permit occasional, temporary uses and
activities, when consistent with the objectives of the Unified Land Development
Code and compatible with surrounding uses. They are further intended to prevent
temporary uses from assuming the character of permanent uses.
2.   Temporary Use Types. The following temporary uses are permitted, subject
to the regulations contained within these sections:
   A.   Model homes or apartments, if contained within the development to which
they pertain.
   B.   Development Sales Offices. Such offices may remain in place until 90
percent of the lots or units within the development are sold and may not be
located within a mobile home or manufactured home/structure.
   C.   Public assemblies, displays, and exhibits.
   D.   Commercial circuses, carnivals, fairs, festivals, or other transient
events, provided that events are located on property owned by the sponsoring
non-profit organization or are located within a Central Business District or
more intensive zoning district.
   E.   Outdoor art shows and exhibits.
   F.   Christmas tree or other holiday-related merchandise sales lots,
provided that such facilities are not located in a residential zoning district.
   G.   Construction site offices, if located on the construction site itself.
   H.   Outdoor special sales, provided that such sales operate no more than
three days in the same week and five days in the same month and are located in
commercial or industrial zoning districts.
   I.   Construction batch plants in the C-2 or M-1 Zoning Districts, provided
that:
      (1)   No plant may be located within 600 feet of a developed residential
use, park, or school.
      (2)   The facility is located no more than one mile from its job site.
The Building Official may extend this distance to two miles if such extension
avoids use of local streets by plant-related vehicles.
      (3)   Hours of operation do not exceed 12 hours per day or start before
7:00 a.m.
      (4)   The duration of the plant’s operation does not exceed 180 days.
   J.   Additional temporary uses that the Building Official determines to be
similar to the previously described uses in this section.
3.   Required Conditions of All Temporary Uses.
   A.   Each site shall be left free of debris, litter, or other evidence of
the use upon its completion or removal.
   B.   The Building Official may establish other conditions that they deem
necessary to ensure compatibility with surrounding land uses.
4.   Permit Application and Issuance.
   A.   An application to conduct a temporary use shall be made to the Building
Official and shall include at a minimum a description of the proposed use; a
diagram of its location; information regarding hours and duration of operation;
and other information necessary to evaluate the application.
   B.   The Building Official may authorize a temporary use only if they
determine that:
      (1)   The use will not impair the normal operation of a present or future
permanent use on the site.
      (2)   The use will be compatible with surrounding uses and will not
adversely affect the public health, safety, and welfare.
   C.   The duration of the permit shall be explicitly stated on the permit.
   D.   Decisions of the Building Official may be appealed to the Council.
CHAPTER 168
SUPPLEMENTAL DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
 
168.01 Purpose                  168.05 Front Porch Additions
168.02 Required Street Frontage 168.06 Height Exceptions
168.03 Lot Size Exceptions      168.07 Fence Regulations
168.04 Setback Adjustments      168.08 Appeals
168.01   PURPOSE.
The supplemental site development regulations establish basic requirements for
developable lots, including frontage requirements. They recognize the existence
of special conditions that cannot comply literally with the site development
regulations set out for each zoning district. Therefore, these regulations
qualify or modify the district regulations of this Unified Land Development
Code and provide for specific areas of exception.
168.02   REQUIRED STREET FRONTAGE.
Except as permitted below, any lot used in whole or part for residential
purposes shall provide a minimum frontage of 20 feet along at least one public
street or right-of-way, or shall possess an exclusive, uninterrupted private
easement of access or right-of-way at least 20 feet wide to a public street.
There shall not be more than one single-family housing unit for such frontage
or easement. A common easement of access at least 40 feet in width may be
provided for two or more single-family units or for one or more duplex, two-
family, townhouse, or multiple-family housing units.
168.03   LOT SIZE EXCEPTIONS.
In any district permitting residential use types, a single-family use type may
be located on any lot or plot of official record but nonconforming in size as
of the effective date of this Code (June 16, 2014) regardless of its area or
width, but subject to the following requirements:
1.   The sum of the widths of the side yards of such lot shall be the lesser of
those required by the district regulations or 25 percent of the width of the
lot. No single side yard shall be less than 10 percent of the width of the lot.
This exception does not apply to street side yards.
2.   The depth of the rear yard of such lot need not exceed 20 percent of the
depth of the lot, but shall not be less than 20 feet.
3.   If two or more such adjacent lots are combined under single ownership, the
resulting combined lots shall be treated as a single lot for purposes of
applying these setback requirements.
168.04   SETBACK ADJUSTMENTS.
1.   Lot Adjoining Alleys. In calculating the depth of a required side or rear
yard setback for a lot adjoining a dedicated public alley, one-half of the
alley may be credited as a portion of the yard. However, no residential
structure may be nearer than three feet to the near side of the alley.
2.   Encroachments on Required Yards. Every part of a required yard shall be
open and unobstructed from finished grade upward, except as specified herein:
   A.   Architectural projections, including roofs that cover porches, enclosed
porches, windowsills, belt courses, cornices, eaves, flues and chimneys, and
ornamental features may project three feet into a required yard.
   B.   Terraces, patios, uncovered decks, and ornamental features which have
no structural element more than three feet above or below the adjacent ground
level may project six feet into a required front yard or 10 feet into a
required rear yard. However, all such projections must be set back at least
five feet from an adjacent side lot line or 20 feet from any street property
line.
   C.   Fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways, and balconies opening to
fire towers may project a maximum of three feet into required yards provided
that they do not obstruct the light and ventilation of adjacent buildings.
   D.   In commercial districts, a canopy may extend into a required front
yard, provided that the canopy is set back at least five feet from the front
property line, covers less than 15 percent of the area of the required front
yard, and has a vertical clearance of at least eight feet six inches.
   E.   Accessory buildings are subject to all site development regulations of
its zoning district, except as provided below:
      (1)   Side Yards. An accessory building may be located a minimum of five
feet from the side lot line of the property if it is located between the rear
building line of the principal building and the rear property line and is under
15 feet in height. An additional one-foot setback is required for every two
feet above 15 feet in height, up to the minimum requirements of the zoning
district.
      (2)   Front Yards. No accessory building may be located between the front
building line of the principal building and the front property line.
      (3)   Rear Yard. The minimum rear yard setback for accessory buildings
shall be five feet. This minimum rear yard setback shall be increased to 20
feet if the accessory building is a garage with a vehicular entrance door that
is directly oriented toward an alley. Double-frontage lots shall require front-
yard setbacks along both street frontages. Easements may be incorporated into
these required setbacks. No accessory building shall be located within any
easement or right-of-way along the rear property line.
      (4)   Street Yards. No accessory building shall be located within 20 feet
from any street right­ of-way line.
      (5)   Maximum Size. No accessory building other than a garage shall
exceed 200 square feet, or 1.5 percent of total lot area, whichever is larger,
within the R-1, R-2, R-3, R/CC, and RM Zoning Districts, providing that the
necessary Building Permit is obtained. The maximum size of a detached garage
for a single-family detached, single-family attached, or duplex residential
uses shall not exceed 720 square feet, or 25 percent of the building coverage
of the main residential structure, whichever is larger. All accessory buildings
on a site, taken together, must comply with the building coverage requirements
for the zoning district and shall not occupy more than 30 percent of any
required rear yard. Any individual accessory structure with an area over 120
square feet shall require a Building Permit and shall utilize exterior
materials and building design consistent with the character of the primary
structure.
      (6)   Height. In residential districts, the maximum height shall be 16
feet for any accessory building.
      (7)   Separation from Other Buildings. No accessory building shall be
placed within 10 feet of any other building on its own property or any adjacent
properties.
      (8)   Attached Accessory Structures. Any accessory structure physically
attached to the principal building shall be considered part of the principal
building and subject to the development regulations of its zoning district.
      (9)   Effect on Adjacent Properties. If an adjacent lot is built upon,
any accessory building that utilizes any setback adjustment permitted by this
section must be entirely to the rear of the front building line of any
principal building on such adjacent lot. No accessory building shall damage
adjacent property by obstructing views, inhibiting solar access, or hindering
ventilation.
      (10)   Hazards. Any accessory use that creates a potential fire hazard
shall be located a minimum of 10 feet from any residential structure. Such uses
include but are not limited to detached fireplaces, barbecue ovens, or storage
of flammable materials.
      (11)   No accessory building shall be built upon any lot until
construction of the principal building has begun.
   F.   Swimming pools shall be subject to the same location and setback
requirements as accessory buildings.
   G.   Lamp posts with a maximum height of 10 feet, and flag poles up to
maximum height of base district may be located within required yards, provided
they are set back at least five feet from property lines. The spread of a flag
when fully extended shall not extend onto public right­ of-way.
   H.   Garage Setbacks. Any garage that fronts on a public street must be set
back at least 20 feet from such street, regardless of the setback requirement
within the zoning district. This shall not be interpreted to waive a larger
required minimum setback required by the zoning district.
   I.   Front porch additions, shall be subject to all site development
regulations of the applicable zoning district, except as provided below:
      (1)   Front Yards. The front porch addition, including the roof overhang,
may project no more than eight feet into a required front yard. Any such front
porch addition, however, shall not be permitted to extend into the applicable
setback more than 20 percent, i.e., if the setback is 10 feet, then the porch
shall not extend more than two feet into the setback.
      (2)   Right-of-Way. No part of a front porch addition shall extend into
or onto a right-of-way.
      (3)   A front porch addition extending into a required front yard shall
not be considered as the main portion of the house for purposes of calculating
setback and required yard requirements for an owner rebuilding a damaged or
destroyed house.
3.   Setbacks on State and Federal Highways. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Code, all buildings built or altered, or off-street parking
areas developed along a State or federally designated highway shall maintain a
setback equal to the greater of 50 feet from the centerline of the road or 35
feet from the front property line. Lots of record under five acres in size;
lots of record duly platted and approved prior to the effective date of this
Code; or lots in which a properly dedicated and accepted frontage road right-
of-way exists are exempt from these provisions and are instead subject to the
setback requirements of their respective zoning district.
4.   Setback Adjustments.
   A.   Setbacks on Built-Up Block Faces. These provisions apply if 30 percent
or more of the buildings on that block face have front yard setbacks different
from those required for the specific district.
      (1)   If a building is to be built on a parcel of land within 100 feet of
existing buildings on both sides, the minimum front yard shall be the mean
setbacks of the adjacent buildings.
      (2)   If a building is to be built on a parcel of land within 100 feet of
an existing building on one side only, the minimum front yard shall be the
setback of the adjacent building.
      (3)   If a building is to be built on a parcel of land not within 100
feet of an existing building on either side, then the minimum front yard shall
be the mean setback of all existing buildings on the block face.
      (4)   No setback adjustment pursuant to this section shall create a
required front yard setback more than five feet greater than that otherwise
required by the applicable zoning district.
   B.   Corner Lots.
      (1)   Required setbacks shall not reduce the buildable width of any
corner lot to less than 24 feet. Appropriate setback adjustments shall be
allowed to maintain this minimum width.
      (2)   No setback adjustment shall permit encroachment into the vision
clearance triangle.
5.   Rear Yard Exceptions - Residential Uses. When an irregular lot is used for
residential purposes, the rear yard may be measured as the average horizontal
distance between the building and rear lot line, provided that the minimum
setback shall not be less than 60 percent of the rear yard required by the
zoning district.
6.   Double Frontage Lots. Residentially zoned double frontage lots on a major
street and with no access to that street may have a 25-foot minimum front yard
setback along said street. All other double frontage lots must provide full
front yard setbacks from each adjacent street.
7.   Satellite Antennas.
   A.   Each residence shall have no more than one satellite antenna.
   B.   Antennas with a surface area larger than 6.3 square feet that are
accessory to a primary use and are designed to receive and transmit
electromagnetic signals, or to receive signals from satellites, shall not be
located within any front yard of the primary use.
   C.   Antennas with a surface area of larger than 6.3 square feet are subject
to the following additional regulations:
      (1)   Such antennas shall be located at least ten feet from the property
line of an adjacent property line.
      (2)   The maximum diameter shall be three feet.
8.   Vision Clearance Zones. No structure, including a fence, shall be built to
a height of more than two feet above the established curb grade on the part of
the lot within a vision clearance zone. The vision clearance zone shall be a
triangle measured from the point of intersection of the curb or edge line of
the streets to a point 40 feet in each direction from the intersection along
such street lines. At the intersection of major streets as defined in the
Comprehensive Development Plan, the 40-foot distance shall be increased to 60
feet. No landscaping shall be planted in such area that will materially
obstruct the view of drivers approaching the street intersection.
168.05   FRONT PORCH ADDITIONS.
Permitted front porch additions shall be roofed, unenclosed porches projecting
from the front exterior wall of a building, added to the building at a time
subsequent to the main building’s construction, and complying with the
following requirements in addition to all other requirements of the City Code:
1.   The floor of said structure must be comprised of wood, cement slab, or
brick pavers.
2.   The roof of the porch must be a continuous extension from the building and
must be covered in the same material as the roof of the main building. The roof
of the porch must be framed as a hip or a gable.
3.   The ceiling height of the porch may not exceed the height of the existing
eaves of the main building.
4.   The front porch addition shall be built subject to the same architectural
standards as the main building to which it is attached.
5.   The length of a permitted front porch addition shall not exceed the length
of the building to which it is attached.
168.06   HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS.
These provisions allow exceptions to the height limit of any zoning district in
certain situations.
1.   Vertical Projections.
   A.   Chimneys, cooling towers, building mechanical equipment, elevator
bulkheads, fire towers, grain elevators, non-parabolic receiving antennas,
tanks, solariums, steeples, penthouses not exceeding 25 percent of total roof
area, flag poles, stage towers or scenery lofts, and water towers may be built
to any height in accordance with existing and future ordinances.
   B.   Any such equipment or vertical projections attached to a building and
exceeding the height limit shall be screened to prevent visibility from public
right-of-way or adjacent property using materials or design features that are
consistent with the overall design of the main building.
   C.   No such projection may be built which in the event of failure could
constitute a hazard or fall onto either public right-of-way or property, or
onto another private property
2.   Civic Buildings. Buildings housing civic use types may be built to a
maximum height of 60 feet. Such buildings located in residential districts
shall be set back one foot in addition to required setbacks from each property
line for each foot of height over the maximum height of the zoning district.
3.   Wind Energy Conservation Systems (WECS). Wind Energy Conservation Systems
are exempt from the height restrictions of the base district but are subject to
the regulations of Section 167.09.
4.   Conditional Use Approvals. The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant an
exception from the height limit for a zoning district for a conditional use as
part of its approval of that use. The limit or extent of this exception shall
be a specific part of the conditional use permit.
168.07   FENCE REGULATIONS.
1.   Location Restriction.
   A.   Unless otherwise provided by this Code, no fence shall be built on any
lot or tract outside the surveyed lot lines or tract outside the surveyed lot
lines.
   B.   No fence shall be built by a private party on public land without the
specific prior approval of the City. Removal of any such fence shall be at the
expense of its owner.
2.   Applicability. The regulations contained in this section apply to all
fences with a height above grade of 30 inches and over.
3.   Required Openings. Unless otherwise provided by this Code, any fence built
on residential property within required front or street side yards shall
contain openings constituting no less than 50 percent of the surface area of
the fence.
4.   Sight Obstruction at Street Intersections. No fence or hedge permitted or
required by this Code shall be built to a height of more than three feet above
the established curb grade on the part of the lot within a vision clearance
zone. The vision clearance zone for fence construction shall include:
   A.   At street intersections, a triangle measured from the point of
intersection of the street edge lines of the streets to a point 40 feet in each
direction from the intersection along such street edge lines. At the
intersection of major streets, the 40-foot distance shall be increased to 60
feet. No landscaping shall be planted in such area that will materially
obstruct the view of drivers approaching the street intersection.
   B.   At intersections of a sidewalk and alley or non-residential driveway or
parking lot access, a triangle whose legs extend 10 feet back from the sidewalk
along the alley or driveway, and 20 feet parallel to and along the back of the
sidewalk back from the intersecting alley or driveway.
5.   Facing. The finished surfaces of any fence shall face toward adjacent
properties and street frontage.
6.   Effect on Adjacent Properties and Drainage. Fences shall be erected and
maintained so as to avoid limiting or obstructing the flow of water in natural
drainage courses, or drainageways created within easements.
7.   Fence Construction on Public Utility Easements. Any fence erected on a
tract of land subject to an easement for the construction, maintenance,
operations, or replacement of any water, sanitary or storm sewer, gas line,
electric power, telephone, or other utility poles, or other cables or lines
shall be designed and constructed to be readily removable to permit the use of
the easement. Such fences shall be subject to removal by request of the owner
of the easement whenever necessary to permit access. The cost of removal or
replacement shall be the responsibility of the owner of the fence.
8.   Barbed Wire. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association or
corporation to use barbed wire to enclose land within the City limits without
the consent of the Council unless such land consists of 10 acres or more and is
used as agricultural land.
9.   Encroachments. It is unlawful for any person, firm, association or
corporation to encroach upon or to place a fence upon any City street, avenue,
public way or City property. A survey shall be required and filed with the
Clerk showing that a proposed fence does not encroach upon any City street,
avenue, public way or City property.
10.   Protective Fences Around Swimming Pools. Outdoor pools shall have a
barrier as described below:
   A.   All pool with a depth of 18 inches or greater, shall be completely
surrounded by a barrier, fence, or solid structure (house or garage wall) and
shall have no opening, other than doors or gates, except as listed in this
subsection.
   B.   Minimum of six-foot-high barrier, fence, or solid structure is required
for all pools (in-ground, partially in-ground, above-ground, and all others)
capable of holding water greater than 42 inches.
   C.   Minimum 42 inches high barrier, fence, or solid structure is required
for all other pools capable of holding water from 18 to 42 inches in depth.
   D.   Such barrier fence, solid structure, or wall shall be constructed of
sufficiently strong materials and of such structural design as to make the pool
inaccessible to small children.
   E.   The barrier, fence, or other solid structure shall have no opening of
more than four inches.
   F.   All gates or doors shall:
      (1)   Be equipped with a self-closing, self-latching, and lockable door
or gate securely closed at all times when not in actual use.
      (2)   Have all latches or locking devices on doors and gates not less
than 42 inches above the adjoining walls, steps, or ground.
      (3)   At all times, when the pool is unattended such gates, doors, steps,
ladders, ramp, or other vehicles affording access to the pool shall be secured
against unauthorized access. Unattended means the absence of an adult person in
the outdoor swimming pool or within constant eyesight of said pool and no more
than 20 feet therefrom.
   G.   Barriers may include not only fences, walls, or solid streamline, but
may also include decks, the pool structure itself and above-ground fencing that
is specifically attached to pools as designed by the manufacturers of pools.
However, barriers shall not include items that are unsightly, subject to
usually fast wear and tear or otherwise made of materials not designed for use
around outdoor swimming pools.
11.   Fences.
   A.   When located within a front yard shall not exceed four feet in height
measured from the adjacent ground level.
   B.   When located in a rear yard, six-foot privacy fences shall be allowed
from the rear of the house to the rear property line, height measured from the
adjacent ground level.
   C.   When the yard abuts the lake, it is unlawful for any person, firm,
association, or corporation to build, construct, or maintain a solid six-foot
privacy fence in their lakeside yard. No application can be made to the Board
of Adjustment for the establishment of a privacy fence on the above said
properties, exception for required six-foot fence around pools.
   D.   When located in a side yard, six-foot privacy fences shall be allowed
from the rear of the house to the front of the house only by special permit
from the Board of Adjustment. Height to be measured from the adjacent ground.
   E.   Fences shall be located so no part thereof is within one foot of any
alley or street right-of­ way line. Except in areas where streets or alleys
have no curb and gutter, fences shall be located no closer than five feet from
the edge of alley or street surface to allow for snow removal. No application
to the Board of Adjustment or the Council can be made to place such fences
closer to the edge of the alley or street surface.
   F.   No portion of any fence shall exceed six feet in height, measured from
the adjacent ground.
   G.   Corner Lots. Privacy fences on corner lots and double corner lots shall
only be allowed directly behind the residence and not be allowed alongside
yards.
   H.   Fence Installation. It is unlawful for any person, firm, association,
or corporation to build, construct, or maintain any fence of any kind unless
the poles or posts are on the inside of the fence facing the property upon
which the fence is being installed, and the finish side of the fence shall be
placed on the side of the poles or posts facing the property other than the
property of the owner.
   I.   Exception for the Carter Lake Club Area. In the historic and unique
district known as “The Carter Lake Club” area, fences as described above may be
installed where no neighbors view of the lake is impeded by said fence. Fences
installed along “Club Area” sidewalks may be installed on City right-of-way
with Council permission at a distance from said sidewalk to be determined by
the Council.
   J.   Dog Runs and Fence Gates.
      (1)   Dog runs shall be enclosed by a fence of sufficient height and
construction to contain the dog at all times. A closed top shall be installed
if necessary to contain the dog.
      (2)   All gates or doors opening through an enclosure to a pool, or a dog
run shall be equipped with a self-closing and self-latching device for keeping
the gate or door securely closed at all times when not in actual use, except
the door of any building which forms a part of the enclosure need not be so
equipped. The Building Official may permit other protective devices or
structures to be used so long as the degree of protection afforded by the
substitute device or structure is not less than the protection afforded herein.
   K.   Materials. Fences shall be constructed of wood, chain-link, PVC or
resin, stone or masonry materials, or ornamental metals only. Wood fences shall
utilize standard building lumber only. Barbed wire and electrified fences are
not permitted and are defined as any fence that includes in its material barbs,
blades, razors, electric current, or other features specifically designed to
injure or abrade an individual or animal who attempts to negotiate the fence.
Wire mesh fences may be permitted to enclose tennis courts and game and
recreation areas on public land and residential lots.
12.   Civic, Office, Commercial, and Industrial Fences. Fences constructed in
commercial and industrial districts are subject to the following special
provisions:
   A.   The maximum height of a fence for any permitted use in any non-
residential zoning district shall be eight feet.
   B.   Civic Uses in Residential Districts. The maximum height of fences
installed as part of primary and secondary educational facilities, day care,
and park and recreation use types, or any other use that provides secured
outdoor space for the use of children within residential zoning districts shall
be eight feet.
   C.   Electrified fences are not permitted within the jurisdiction of the
City.
168.08   APPEALS.
Denial, revocations, or cancellations of a Building Permit based on the
provisions of this section may be appealed to the Council or Board of
Adjustment, as set forth in Chapter 165.
CHAPTER 169
LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING
 
169.01 Purpose                           169.07 Planting
169.02 Applicability                     169.08 Maintenance Of Required
                                         Landscaping
169.03 Landscaping Depth                 169.09 Obstruction Of View
169.04 Buffer Yard Provisions            169.10 Earth Berm Locations
169.05 Screening And Buffering Standards 169.11 Use Of Inorganic Landscaping
                                         Materials
169.06 Parking Lot Landscaping           169.12 Removal Of Trees
169.01   PURPOSE.
The landscaping and screening regulations provide additional guidance on the
development of sites within the City by addressing landscaping and screening
requirements for both commercial and residential properties. They are designed
to improve the appearance of the community, buffer potentially incompatible
land uses from one another, and conserve the value of properties within the
City. The landscape and screening provisions are further intended to expedite
development approval by including predictable, uniform standards for
landscaping.
169.02   APPLICABILITY.
The provisions of this section shall apply to all new development on each lot
or site upon application for a Building Permit, and within five years of
enactment of this Unified Land Development Code to all existing developments.
169.03   LANDSCAPING DEPTH.
For determining required landscaping depth, the lot adjacent to each street
property line shall be divided into two zones as shown in the figure below. The
row yard is located immediately adjacent to the street and its required width
is shown in the second column of the table below. (Note that all widths are
measured perpendicular to the property line.) This zone must be 100 percent
landscaped. The street yard is the area between the row yard and the face of
any structure on the property. The percentage of required landscaping in this
zone is shown in Columns 3 and 4 of the table below. Note that there is a
different requirement for the first 80 feet of depth in the street yard and for
depths greater than 80 feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b168fe48573aeee5dd12e80dd0d5a2a53fb43456/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2389.png]
Required Landscape Depth Adjacent to Street Property Lines.
                Depth of Landscaping Percent of First 80 Percent of Street Yard
Zoning District Adjacent to Street   Feet of Street Yard Beyond first 80 Feet
                Property Lines (Row  That Must Be        That Must Be
                Yard)                Landscaped          Landscaped
                Depth of Landscaping Percent of First 80 Percent of Street Yard
Zoning District Adjacent to Street   Feet of Street Yard Beyond first 80 Feet
                Property Lines (Row  That Must Be        That Must Be
                Yard)                Landscaped          Landscaped
                20 Feet for
R-1, R-1A       residential uses     N/A                 0
                25 feet for other
                uses
R-2, R-3        20 feet              N/A                 0
R/CC            10 feet from         N/A                 0
                greenways and alleys
                35 feet for mobile
RM              home parks           40                  0
                20 feet for other
                uses
C/L             10 feet              20                  5
                25 feet for
C-1             residential uses     20                  10
                15 feet for other
                uses
C-2             10 feet              15                  5
TC              No requirement       0                   0
C/A             15 feet              20                  5
BP              20 feet              20                  10
M-1             10 feet              15                  0
M-2             10 feet              0                   0
169.04   BUFFER YARD PROVISIONS.
These provisions apply when a use is established in a more intensive zoning
district (District A) which is adjacent to a less intensive zoning district
(District B). The owner, developer, or operator of the use within District A
shall install and maintain a landscaped buffer yard on their lot or site, as
set forth in this section. Buffer yard requirements apply only to those
districts indicated in the table in this section. Buffer yards are not required
of single-family, two-family, duplex, or townhouse use types in the more
intensive zoning district.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b168fe48573aeee5dd12e80dd0d5a2a53fb43456/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2391.png]
1.   The buffer yard dimensions set forth in the table in Section 169.04 apply
to zoning districts, which share a common lot line or are adjacent but
separated by an intervening alley.
2.   When a street separates adjacent zoning districts requiring a buffer yard,
the size of the buffer yard shall be one-half the required buffer yard set
forth in the table below.
3.   Each required buffer yard must be entirely landscaped and free of paved
areas, access ways, storage, or other disturbances.
                Width of Buffer Yard  Percent of First 80 Percent of Street
Zoning District (in feet) District B  Feet of Street Yard Yard Beyond first 80
                (Less Intensive       That Must Be        Feet That Must Be
                Adjacent District)    Landscaped          Landscaped
                    Width of Buffer     Percent of First 80 Percent of Street
                    Yard (in feet)      Feet of Street Yard Yard Beyond first
Zoning District     District B (Less    That Must Be        80 Feet That Must
                    Intensive Adjacent  Landscaped          Be Landscaped
                    District)
District A (more    R-1, R-2, R/CC, RM  R-3                 C/L, C-1
intensive District) (Note 1)            (Note 1, Note 2)    (Note 1, Note 2)
Note 3
                                        20 for multi-family
R-3                                     and permitted non-
                                        residential uses
                                        50 for mobile home
RM                                      parks adjacent to
                                        other residential
                                        uses
                    15 for multi-family 15 for multi-family
C/L                 and                 and
                    non-residential     non-residential
                    uses                uses
C-1                 20 for non-         20 for non-         20 for non-
                    residential uses    residential uses    residential uses
C-2                 30                  20
TC                  20                  20
C/A                 30                  30                  30
BP                  20                  20                  20
M-1                 40                  30                  20
M-2                 100                 100                 20
Note 1: Applies only to residential uses previously established in the zoning
district.
Note 2: Applies only to residential uses previously established in the zoning
district, or to vacant land designated as residential in the City’s
Comprehensive Development Plan.
Note 3: Buffer requirements do not apply to single-family, duplex, or
townhouse residential uses established in District A.
169.05   SCREENING AND BUFFERING STANDARDS.
1.   Application. Screening is required between adjacent zoning districts
indicated in Section 169.04 when one or more of the following conditions in the
more intensive zoning district are directly visible from the faces toward the
boundary of the less intensive zoning district
   A.   The rear elevation of buildings.
   B.   Outdoor storage areas or storage tanks, unless otherwise screened.
   C.   Loading docks, refuse collection points, and other service areas.
   D.   Major machinery or areas housing a manufacturing process.
   E.   Major on-site traffic circulation areas or truck or trailer parking.
   F.   Sources of glare, noise, or other environmental effects.
   G.   Bailing or stockpiling of cardboard or other shipping or packaging
materials.
2.   Opaque Barrier. A six-foot opaque barrier shall be provided which visually
screens the conditions listed in Subsection 1 from less intensive uses.
Acceptable means of providing an opaque barrier are listed below.
   A.   A solid wood, PVC, or masonry fence or wall at least six feet in
height.
   B.   A landscaping screen, using evergreen or deciduous materials, capable
of providing a substantially opaque, hedge-like barrier and attaining a minimum
height of six feet within three years of planting.
   C.   A landscaped earth berm with a maximum slope of three to one, rising no
less than six feet above the existing grade of the lot line separating the
zoning districts.
   D.   Any combination of these methods that achieves a cumulative height of
six feet.
3.   Location of Screening Wall. A screening wall or fence shall be installed
no closer to the less intensive zoning district than one-half the width of the
required buffer yard.
4.   Screening: Effect on Drainage. Screening shall not adversely affect
surface water drainage.
5.   Permitted Interruptions of Screening. Screening may be interrupted to
provide access drives to service areas or for loading purposes to buildings.
Such breaks or interruptions shall not exceed 20 percent of the length of the
required screened area.
6.   Planting shall be accepted in lieu of the required fencing for buffering
the back of commercial buildings abutting residential zones. Screening planting
shall include a 20-foot minimum width-planting strip with a tall hedge as
defined and recommended by the West Pottawattamie County State University
Extension Office. The hedge shall include deciduous or evergreen shrubs in a
double row planted in a triangular pattern. Shrub species shall be selected
from those that are recommended by the West Pottawattamie County State
University Extension Office and conform to the minimum sizes and spacing
specified therein.
7.   All dumpsters and exterior trash storage shall be screened using walls or
fences that are a minimum of six feet in height. The walls and fences shall be
fabricated and finished using the same materials and colors as the adjacent
building, and shall include a matching lockable gate that when closed,
completely eliminates the view of the trash area and its contents.
169.06   PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING.
1.   Landscaping and Screening Requirements. Unless otherwise noted, each
unenclosed parking facility over 6,000 square feet (i.e., 30 or more parking
spaces) shall comply with the following regulations:
   A.   Each unenclosed parking facility shall provide a minimum landscaped
buffer of 10 feet along any street property line.
   B.   Each parking facility that abuts a residential district shall provide a
10 foot landscaped buffer along its common property line with the residential
district.
   C.   Any parking facility which abuts property in a residential district
shall provide a fence, wall, landscape screen, or earth berm not less than four
feet in height for the length of the common boundary. A grade change, terrace,
or other site feature, which blocks the sight line of headlights into a
residential property, may satisfy this requirement, subject to the
determination of the Building Official.
   D.   All unenclosed parking facilities in non-residential and multi-family
residential areas shall have curb and gutters around their perimeters as well
as their internal landscaping areas (i.e. peninsula or island).
   E.   Each unenclosed parking facility over 6,000 square feet within any
street yard shall provide interior landscaped area equal to no less than 10
percent of the total paved area of the parking facility over and above what is
on the street line or residential property line. The interior landscaped area
is defined as landscaping within vehicular parking areas, which break up the
large expanses of pavement, provides relief from reflected glare and heat, and
guides vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   F.   Interior landscaping shall be credited toward the satisfaction of
overall landscaping requirements set forth in this section.
   G.   Landscaping or screening installed in any required landscaped area
shall not obstruct the view from the off-street parking facility to any
driveway approach, street, alley, or sidewalk. Landscaping shall further not
obstruct any views among parking spaces and circulation ways, or visibility
between vehicles and pedestrians.
169.07   PLANTING.
1.   Because an approved list of plantings is ever changing as new information
about old and new species becomes available, individuals or developers are
required to consult with the West Pottawattamie County University Extension
office as to approved species and space requirements.
2.   Planting in the landscape frontage strips shall include not less than the
following:
   A.   One large deciduous shade tree for each 35 feet of frontage.
   B.   Where the strip abuts a parking lot or the side of a building that does
not include pedestrian entrances, a shrub hedge shall be added. The hedge shall
include deciduous or evergreen shrubs in a double row planted in a triangular
spacing. Shrub species shall be selected from recommended plant listing and
conform to the minimum sizes and spacing recommended by the West Pottawattamie
County Extension office.
   C.   A variety of tree and shrub species shall be used to provide visual
four-season interest. Not more than one-third of the required number of trees
or shrubs may be comprised of any one species and at least one third of the
plants should be coniferous or evergreen species.
3.   Monument Signage Landscaping. A heavily landscaped base area shall be
provided consisting of at least 100 square feet for all entry marker and
monument signs and at least 500 square feet for all development complex signs.
Turf grass is not considered to be landscaping for the purposes or this
section.
4.   Automatically controlled underground irrigation shall be installed for all
lawns and plantings in the landscape frontage strips and anywhere else there is
landscaping.
5.   Site Planting Requirements.
   A.   At least 10 percent of the gross site square footage (calculated
without including the building coverage) shall be pervious unpaved planted
surfaces. Any frontage or side street planting strips shall be included in the
calculation of planted areas.
   B.   All planted surfaces shall be planted with grasses, shrubs, perennials,
or groundcover plants so that they shall be completely covered by installed
plants within three years of the planting date. Open mulch or rock beds without
plantings that meet the spacing requirements shall not be accepted as planting
area.
   C.   Large deciduous shade trees shall be installed in parking lots in
excess of 30 spaces. The trees shall be located in planting areas of not less
than 50 square feet of unpaved surface per tree and at least one tree shall be
planted for each 3,000 square feet of paving on site.
   D.   Public right-of-way areas that are disturbed by construction on private
sites shall be graded smooth and planted with sod.
   E.   In any landscaped area for commercial use only required by the minimum
depth requirements, the buffer yard requirements, or the parking lot interior
landscaping requirements, one tree of an approved species with a minimum
caliper size of two inches shall be planted and maintained for each 500 square
feet of required landscaped area. Existing trees approved for preservation
shall be counted toward satisfaction of this requirement.
   F.   Any tree of an approved species planted or maintained with a caliper of
three inches or above shall count as one and one quarter trees toward the
satisfaction of the requirements of this section. An approved existing tree
with a caliper of eight inches or above preserved on a site shall count as two
trees toward the satisfaction of the requirements of this section.
6.   Residential Landscape Requirements.
   A.   Two deciduous shade or evergreen trees, one in the front yard and in
the rear yard, shall be installed per single family, townhouse, duplex,
attached single family or two-family dwelling unit. The trees shall be planted
within two years of the start of construction.
   B.   Multi-family (high-density residential areas) developments shall
provide one deciduous shade or evergreen tree, or two ornamental trees, and
three shrubs for every dwelling unit. These requirements are in addition to
street yard or buffer yard landscaping requirements.
7.   Locust Street Corridor Requirements and Landscaping.
   A.   Residential developments adjacent to the Locust Street Corridor shall
provide, in addition to the requirements of the underlying zoning district, a
25-foot landscaped buffer yard adjacent to Locust Street, and running the
length of the development.
      (1).   Plant materials shall be planted in staggered rows, shall provide
a screen of 70 percent opacity, and shall attain a minimum height of six feet
within four years.
      (2)   Plant materials shall include a combination of deciduous and
coniferous or evergreen trees with a minimum placement of one tree every 30
feet.
      (3)   A landscaped earth berm not exceeding six feet in height may be
used in combination with the plant materials.
      (4)   The landscaped yard shall contain only approved landscaped
materials.
   B.   Low or medium density residential developments backing to arterial,
minor arterial, or collector streets shall provide, in addition to the yard
requirements of the underlying zoning district, a 10 foot deep landscaped yard,
the length of the development, adjacent to the street.
      (1)   Plant materials shall include one deciduous shade or one ornamental
tree, and three shrubs for every 40 linear feet of adjacent area.
      (2)   A landscaped earth berm not exceeding six feet in height may be
used in combination with the plant materials.
      (3)   No fence shall be placed within the 10-foot yard.
      (4)   The landscaped yard shall contain only approved landscaped
materials.
   C.   Multi-family residential, commercial, office, and mixed-use
developments shall provide a 25-foot-deep landscaped yard adjacent to any
street or highway, running the entire length of the development.
      (1)   Plant materials shall include at least one deciduous shade or one
ornamental tree, and three shrubs for every 40 linear feet of adjacent area.
      (2)   The landscaping shall include a planting screen or a random or
informal screen of plant materials providing 50 percent opacity and attaining a
minimum height of six feet within four years.
      (3)   A landscaped earth berm not exceeding six feet in height may be
used in combination with the plant materials.
   D.   Landscaping shall include a planting screen or a random or informal
screen of plant materials substantially blocking the views and attaining a
minimum height of six feet within four years.
   E.   Plant materials should include one deciduous shade or evergreen tree,
one ornamental tree, and three shrubs for every 40 linear feet of adjacent
area.
   F.   A landscaped earth berm not exceeding six feet in height may be used in
combination with the plant materials.
   G.   A six-foot solid wood or masonry fence or wall may be used in
combination with the plant materials, provided that the fence or wall is set
back from the property line the distance of the buffer yard.
169.08   MAINTENANCE OF REQUIRED LANDSCAPING.
Upon installation of required landscape materials, each owner shall take
appropriate actions to ensure their continued health and maintenance. Required
landscaping that does not remain healthy shall be replaced, in a timely
fashion, consistent with this section and the approved landscaping plan for the
project.
169.09   OBSTRUCTION OF VIEW.
Landscaping or screening installed in any landscaped area shall not obstruct
the view from or to any driveway approach, street, alley, or sidewalk, and
shall be consistent with the provisions of the City’s vision clearance zone
regulations.
169.10   EARTH BERM LOCATIONS.
All earth berm locations shall be reviewed and approved by the Building
Official, or their designee in consultation as needed with the Maintenance
Supervisor and Park and Recreation Director, to determine how the berms shall
relate to drainage and public utilities.
169.11   USE OF INORGANIC LANDSCAPING MATERIALS.
1.   No artificial trees, shrubs, plants or turf shall be used to fulfill the
minimum requirements for landscaping. Inorganic materials, such as stone or
stone decorative pavers, such as brick decorative pavers, may be used provided
that such material does not comprise more than 35 percent of the minimum
required landscaped area. Other concrete or asphalt pavement surfaces may not
be used within the minimum required landscaped area, except for driveways and
walkways.
2.   Loose rock without plantings that meet the spacing requirements shall not
be accepted as planting area and shall not be permitted within the required
depth area set forth in Section 169.03.
169.12   REMOVAL OF TREES.
1.   Permit Required.
   A.   No person, firm, corporation, association or other legal entity shall
remove any tree in or upon any public right-of-way or any other public property
within the City limits without first obtaining a permit as provided herein.
   B.   The application for a permit required herein shall be made to the
Building Official in consultation as needed with the Maintenance Supervisor and
Park and Recreation Director on forms furnished by the City, setting forth the
name and address of the applicant, the nature of the proposed action or work,
the entity who will perform the proposed action or work, the location where
such action or work will take place, the names and addresses of surrounding
property owners, and any other information which the Building Official or their
designee may require in order to adequately review the permit application.
   C.   The application shall have attached thereto a signed indemnity
agreement whereby the applicant agrees to indemnify and defend the City from
all claims or causes of action, which may result as a consequence of the
applicant’s performance of work authorized herein.
   D.   Removal of Trees. The Maintenance Supervisor shall remove, on order of
the Council, any tree on the streets of the City, which interferes with the
making of improvements or with travel thereon. The Maintenance Supervisor shall
additionally remove any trees on the street, not on private property, which are
dead or have become diseased, or which constitute a danger to the public, or
which may otherwise be declared a nuisance.
2.   Denial of Permit.
   A.   The proposed removing would violate any provisions of this chapter or
any other law or ordinance of the City or any applicable laws of the State;
   B.   The proposed removing would cause the deterioration, harm, impairment
or injury to the natural aesthetic quality or symmetry of the area;
   C.   The applicant is proposing to remove a tree of desirable species in a
desirable location, or the applicant is proposing to remove a tree and has not
presented a reasonable justification for such removal.
      (1)   Upon determining that a permit shall not be issued herein, the
Building Official or their designee shall serve notice of such determination
upon the applicant by ordinary mail, setting forth the reasons for such denial
and advising the applicant of the right to appeal such denial.
      (2)   The applicant shall have the right to appeal to the Council the
denial of a permit herein by the Building Official or their designee. An appeal
shall be made by filing a written notice of appeal with the Mayor within 10
days of the date set forth on the denial notice received from the Building
Official or their designee. Within 30 days after receiving the written appeal,
the Council shall hold a hearing on the appeal after providing notice of the
time and place of such hearing upon the applicant no less than five days prior
thereto. At said hearing, the Council shall make an independent determination
as to whether to confirm the denial or to grant the permit.
3.   Bond or Deposit. Prior to the issuance of a permit to remove any tree, the
Building Official, in consultation as needed with the Maintenance Supervisor
and Park and Recreation Director, shall require the applicant to submit to the
City a cash bond or deposit to guarantee that the work performed under the
permit shall be completed in accordance with the plans as approved by the
Building Official or their designee and any other specifications set forth by
the Building Official or their designee. The amount of the bond shall be
determined by the Building Official or their designee based upon the estimated
cost to restore the site to an acceptable condition. The applicant shall also
be required to submit a certificate of insurance to the Clerk indicating the
existence of insurance in such amount and with whatever coverage the Building
Official or their designee, in their sole discretion, may require.
4   Standards and Conditions. Any removing allowed under a permit issued herein
shall be performed in accordance with the following standards and conditions,
whether or not such are specified in the permit:
   A.   All trees shall be removed by removing the stump thereof, filling in
the resulting hole with dirt and seeding the filled area;
   B.   All trees, including limbs and debris therefrom, shall be removed from
the street, parkway, sidewalk space or other public way within 48 hours after
being cut, and the ground shall be raked clean of all chips and debris;
   C.   When a tree is being felled, it shall be felled away from or parallel
with the roadway, when possible, and the sidewalk and street shall be guarded
so as to protect pedestrians and vehicles thereon;
   D.   All damage to curbs, sidewalks and other public property occurring in
the performance of such work shall be promptly and properly repaired at the
permittee’s expense.
5.   Certificate of Completion. Upon notification of the completion of any
removing by the permittee, the Building Official, in consultation as needed
with the Maintenance Supervisor and Park and Recreation Director, shall perform
a final inspection of the site. The Building Official or their designee may
repair or clean up the site or complete the operations as expected, if
necessary, and the cost of such work shall be applied against the cash bond or
deposit, and the balance thereof, if any, returned to the permittee. If the
removing is completed in accordance with the plans as approved, the Building
Official or their designee shall issue a certificate of completion to the
permittee which shall release the permittee of further responsibility to the
City and which shall entitle the permittee to the return of the cash bond or
deposit.
6.   Responsibilities of Property Owners. The owner or owners of private
property in the City, shall be responsible for the maintenance, care and
preservation of all trees, shrubs, and hedges growing in or upon such private
property and growing in or upon the part of the public right-of-way abutting
such private property in such a manner so that such trees, shrubs, and hedges
shall not interfere with:
   A.   The normal and customary usage of sidewalks, streets, or alleyways and
other public improvements situated in the public right-of-way;
   B.   The diffusion of light from any street light;
   C.   The visibility of traffic at any intersection of streets;
   D.   The visibility of any traffic sign, warning sign, warning device, or
traffic control device;
   E.   The public safety and general welfare through the spread of diseases or
insects among trees, shrubs, or hedges in the area. Such responsibility shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   All shrubs, hedges, flowers, plants, or other vegetation shall be
kept trimmed back from all streets, sidewalks or alleyways so that vehicular
and pedestrian traffic thereon is not impaired.
      (2)   All shrubs, hedges, flowers, plants, or other vegetation in the
public right-of-way shall be kept trimmed to a height not greater than 30
inches above the street pavement level and shall be trimmed at least three feet
back from the edge of the pavement of a street.
      (3)   All branches of trees projecting over any sidewalk shall be trimmed
to a height not less than nine feet above the sidewalk.
      (4)   All branches of trees projecting over any primary road extension
within the City shall be trimmed to a height not less than 15 feet above the
pavement level.
      (5)   All branches of trees projecting over any other street or alleyway
shall be trimmed to a height not less than 12 feet above the pavement level
thereof.
      (6)   Any tree, shrub, hedge, flower, plant, or other vegetation on
private property which is infected with a disease or with insects which may
spread to other trees, shrubs, hedges, flowers, plants, or other vegetation in
the area shall be sprayed or otherwise treated, if possible, or removed if
spraying or treatment will not remedy the situation.
      (7)   The root of a tree projecting under or into a sidewalk or other
public improvement in the public right-of-way causing damage thereto shall be
cut and removed from the tree, and the sidewalk or other public improvement
shall be repaired at the owner’s expense.
7   Prohibited Acts.
   A.   No person shall injure, destroy or prevent the growth of any tree,
shrub, or hedge in or upon any public right-of-way or any other public property
within the City limits, or deviate from accepted methods of good forestry
practice with respect thereto, including, but not limited to the following
acts:
      (1)   Pouring or spraying on injurious matters such as salt, brine,
whitewash, or toxic chemicals on or around any tree or on the ground around it;
      (2)   Posting any sign on a tree, tree stake, or guard, and fastening any
electrical wire, conduit, guy wire, cable, or rope to any tree, tree stake, or
guard;
      (3)   Piling materials around any tree which would, in fact or
potentially, cause injury to a tree or damage the tree, tree stake, or guard;
      (4)   Using concrete, asphalt, brick or gravel around trees so as to shut
off air, light, or water from the roots;
      (5)   Cutting or girdling completely around the main truck of a tree as a
means to destroy the tree;
      (6)   Trimming a tree by cutting its limbs or branches except at proper
crotches of the tree;
      (7)   Trimming a tree without uniformly and symmetrically rounding its
shape to conform to its natural shape and form prior to trimming;
      (8)   Removing limbs or branches from a tree in such a manner as to place
the tree in a state of physical imbalance without installing necessary cables
or braces;
      (9)   Using climbing spurs in scaling a tree;
      (10)   Using dull or improper tools upon a tree or making otherwise
rough, jagged, or unnecessarily large wounds upon such tree;
      (11)   Splitting the wood in or around wounds of a tree;
      (12)   Tearing, splitting, or otherwise damaging the bark around wounds
of a tree;
      (13)   Chopping, hacking, or mutilating in any manner any live tree,
except for the purpose and at the time of felling and removing such tree as
permitted herein;
      (14)   Excavating any ditch, tunnel, or trench or laying any driveway
near a tree in such a manner as will cause damage to such tree;
      (15)   Building a tree house or other structure in a tree or otherwise
driving a nail into a tree for any reason;
      (16)   Spraying any chemical in such a manner as to cause undue
deterioration, harm, impairment or injury to the growth and natural development
of any tree, shrub or hedge.
   B.   No person shall plant any tree, shrub, or hedge in or upon any public
right-of-way within the City limits, unless it is done so in accordance with
the following standards and conditions:
      (1)   Any tree planted shall be one inch or more in diameter at one foot
above the ground surface;
      (2)   After any tree, shrub or hedge is planted, it shall be and remain
the property of the City subject to the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   No tree, shrub, or hedge shall be planted within 30 inches of the
edge of the pavement of a street;
      (4)   No trees which are expressly prohibited herein or which are not
included in the master street tree plan as provided herein shall be planted;
      (5)   No tree shall be planted in such a location as would impair the
normal growth and development of such tree or of any existing tree in the
vicinity thereof, or in such a location as would destroy the natural aesthetic
quality or symmetry of the area, or in such a location as would cause damage to
any public improvements or to any property of City franchisees. The Director of
Parks or their designee, is authorized to develop standards and guidelines for
applying the above-mentioned general restrictions to particular situations
which shall be set out in the master street tree plan as provided herein.
   C.   No person, shall allow any tree, shrub, hedge, flower, plant or other
vegetation in or upon any public right-of-way abutting the person’s real
property or on the persons’ private property lying within an isosceles triangle
having sides of 35 feet each running along the edge of the pavement of
intersecting streets with the apex thereof at the point of the intersection of
the edges of the pavement of such streets to grow to or exist at a height in
excess of 30 inches from the pavement.
8.   Abatement and Assessment of Costs.
   A.   The failure of a private property owner to fulfill a responsibility
imposed by this chapter or the performance by a private property owner of an
act prohibited by this chapter shall be deemed to create a nuisance which may
be abated as such. Whenever the Building Official, in consultation as needed
with the Maintenance Supervisor and Park and Recreation Director, determines
that such a nuisance exists, the Building Official or their designee shall
order appropriate remedial action to be taken by the private property owner
involved.
   B.   When action is ordered to be taken as authorized herein, the Building
Official or their designee shall serve written notice upon the property owner
that such action is required. The notice required herein shall be directed and
sent by certified mail to the name and address of the property owner as shown
by the records of the Auditor’s office. The notice shall set forth with
particularity the nature of the property owner’s failure to comply, the
specific remedial action required, the time within which the property owner
must perform the required remedial action, the procedures for appealing the
order of the Building Official or their designee, and the consequences of the
owner’s failure to perform the required remedial action in the time allowed,
including abatement and assessment of costs. If the remedial action required is
removal of a tree, the property owner shall make application for a permit to do
so as provided in this chapter prior to removing such tree.
   C.   Except in cases of extreme emergency, the owner shall have the right to
appeal to the Council the determination and order of the Building Official or
their designee. An appeal to the Council shall be made by filing a written
notice of appeal within 10 days of the date set forth on the notice received
from the Building Official or their designee. Within 30 days after receiving
the written appeal, the Council shall hold a hearing on the appeal after
providing notice of the time and place of such hearing upon the appellant no
less than five days prior thereto. At said hearing, the Council shall make an
independent determination as to whether the property owner has failed to
exercise a responsibility imposed herein or has performed an act prohibited
herein and whether remedial action is required.
   D.   The property owner shall have 15 days from the date of receipt of
notice herein or 15 days from the adverse decision of the Council after appeal
to perform the required remedial action; provided, however, if the remedial
action required is removal of a tree which has been planted by the property
owner contrary to the standards set out herein, then the property owner shall
have 90 days from the date of receipt of notice herein or 90 days from the
adverse decision of the Council after appeal to remove such tree. If the owner
fails to perform the required remedial action in the time allowed, the Building
Official or their designee shall perform the action or contract for the
performance of the action and assess the cost thereof against the owner’s
property.
9.   Trimming by Franchisees. Any franchisee of the City which owns, operates,
or maintains any overhead or underground wires, cables, electric distribution
or transmission lines, or pipelines within the public rights-of-way of the City
shall have the right to trim the branches or root system of any tree growing on
or projecting over or through any public right-of-way of the City which may at
any time interfere or come in contact with any such wires, cables, lines, or
pipelines; provided, that such trimming shall be done in accordance with the
requirements and specifications set out, and further provided that such right
to trim trees shall not include the right to remove trees without first making
application for and obtaining a permit to do so as required by this chapter;
however, in the event of an emergency which requires immediate removal of a
tree, the permit required herein may be acquired after the fact.
10.   Trimming of Trees to Be Supervised. It shall be unlawful for any person
to trim or cut any tree in a street or public place unless the work is done
under the supervision of the City.
11.   Fees. An application for a permit shall be accompanied by a fee as set
forth in the prevailing schedule of fees as most recently adopted by the
Council.
12.   Enforcement. Trimming of trees. If the abutting property owner fails to
trim the trees as required in this chapter, the City may serve notice on the
abutting property owner requiring that such action be taken within five days.
If such action is not taken within that time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the costs against the abutting property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax.
13.   Dutch Elm Disease, Pine Blight, and Other Tree Related Diseases.
   A.   Trees Subject to Removal. The Council, having determined that the
health of the elm trees within the City is threatened by a fatal disease known
as the Dutch elm disease, hereby declares the following shall be removed:
      (1)   Living or Standing Trees. Any living or standing elm tree or part
thereof infected with the Dutch elm disease fungus or which harbors any of the
elm bark beetles, that is scolytus multistriatus (eichb.) or hylurgopinus
rufipes (marsh.).
      (2)   Dead Trees. Any dead elm tree or part thereof including logs,
branches, stumps, firewood, or other elm material from which the bark has not
been removed and burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle destroying
insecticide.
   B.   Duty to Remove. No person or entity shall permit any tree or material
as defined in Subsection 13 to remain on the premises owned, controlled, or
occupied by such person or entity within the City.
   C.   Inspection. The Maintenance Supervisor shall inspect or cause to be
inspected any elm trees reported or suspected to be infected with the Dutch elm
disease or any elm bark bearing material reported or suspected to be infected
with the elm bark beetles.
   D.   Removal from City Property. If the Maintenance Supervisor, upon
inspection or examination, determines that any condition as herein defined
exists in or upon any public street, alley, park, or any public place,
including the strip between the curb and the lot line of private property,
within the City and that danger to other elm trees within the City is imminent,
the Maintenance Supervisor shall immediately cause such condition to be
corrected so as to destroy or prevent as fully as possible the spread of Dutch
elm disease or the insect pests or vectors known to carry such disease fungus.
   E.   Removal from Private Property. If the Maintenance Supervisor, upon
inspection or examination, shall determine with reasonable certainty that any
condition as herein defined exists in or upon private premises and that the
danger to other elm trees within the City is imminent, the Maintenance
Supervisor shall immediately notify by certified mail the owner, occupant or
person in charge of such property to correct such condition within 14 days of
said notification. If such owner, occupant or person in charge of said property
fails to comply within 14 days of receipt of notice, the Council may cause the
nuisance to be removed and the cost assessed against the property. If the
Maintenance Supervisor is unable to determine with reasonable certainty whether
or not a tree in or upon private premises is infected with Dutch elm disease,
the Maintenance Supervisor is authorized to remove or cut specimens from said
tree, and obtain a diagnosis of such specimens
CHAPTER 170
PARKING REGULATIONS
 
                                      170.04 Supplementary Regulations: Storage
170.01 Purpose                        and Parking of Unlicensed or Other
                                      Vehicles
170.02 Non-Residential Off-Street     170.05 Special Permitting Provisions for
Parking, Loading, and Unloading       Otherwise Prohibited Commercial Parking
Ordinance
170.03 Residential Off-Street Parking 170.06 Violations and Penalties
170.01   PURPOSE.
The off-street parking regulations require that developments provide parking in
proportion to the need created by each use. The regulations further establish
standards for the functional design of parking facilities. These regulations
are intended to accommodate vehicles in a functionally satisfactory manner and
to minimize external effects on neighboring properties.
170.02   NON-RESIDENTIAL OFF-STREET PARKING, LOADING AND UNLOADING ORDINANCE.
1.   At the time of major repair, replacement, construction, or enlargement of
a structure or enlargement of the parking surface or change in use of a
structure, a hard-surfaced parking area, other than the street or public way,
shall be provided for use in the parking or storage of passenger automobiles
and commercial vehicles. Buildings or structures to be constructed or
substantially altered that will receive and distribute materials by trucks,
shall provide and maintain hard-surfaced off-street loading and unloading
spaces in sufficient number and size to adequately handle the needs of the
particular use. Minimum off-street parking space and loading and unloading
requirements shall be observed in accordance with the following provisions:
   A.   Whenever an addition to an existing structure is proposed, all of the
applicable provisions contained within this chapter regarding the number of
spaces, area or usability of existing parking, loading, and unloading spaces or
other areas requiring a paved surface shall be complied with.
   B.   With prior recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
approval by the Council, contractual agreements may be made between uses that
generate parking and at different intervals in such a manner that the
requirements of more than one use may be met by the same space, provided the
parking demand for each use involved is met. All required parking spaces shall
be located a distance not to exceed 400 feet measured in a straight line from
the principle entrance of the building which they are required to serve.
   C.   In the event several uses occupy a structure or parcel of land, the
total requirements for off-street parking or loading and unloading spaces shall
be the sum of the requirements of the several uses computed separately.
   D.   Loading or unloading spaces shall not be located in a required front
yard, but they may be located within a required side or rear yard. Once
designated these spaces cannot be converted to passenger car parking to satisfy
parking requirements.
   E.   All such off-street parking lots or areas, sales lots, apron space and
loading and unloading spaces shall be so drained as to prevent damage to
abutting properties and public streets or areas.
   F.   All off-street parking lots and areas, sales lots, and loading and
unloading spaces, including entrances, exits and driveway approaches shall be
constructed of hard surface concrete or hot-mix asphalt to prevent mud, dust or
loose material. Asphalt grindings and seal coats are not acceptable surfaces.
Paving standards contained in this section should be considered minimum
standards. Only concrete shall be used within the public right-of-way
(sidewalks and drive approaches).
   G.   All parking surfaces, spaces, circulation and aisles along the outer
boundaries of a parking lot, vehicle entry paths, apron spaces, all driveways,
and other traveled areas shall be set back a minimum of five feet from the
property line unless a greater setback is required for approved access.
   H.   Raised curb and gutter (six inches high and a minimum of two feet wide)
must extend all around the perimeter of the parking area and drain into storm
sewers. Such curb and gutter and other interior features shall be constructed
of concrete. A raised walkway or green area at least six feet wide and six
inches high must be constructed between parking lanes in which cars would
otherwise be abutted. Such areas may be used to defray requirements for green
space as specified in Landscaping, Screening, and Planting Standards.
   I.   When a computation of required parking spaces results in a fraction of
half or greater, the requirement shall be rounded up to the next whole number.
   J.   No addition to an existing building shall be constructed which reduces
the number of spaces, area or usability of existing parking or loading unless
such building, and its addition, conforms with the regulations for parking and
loading contained herein.
   K.   When employees or customers may occupy buildings after dusk, lighting
adequate to guide and protect them during access to and egress from automobiles
shall be provided. All lighting shall be arranged in such a manner as to direct
the light away from neighboring residential properties and away from the vision
of passing motorists and pedestrians.
   L.   The use of portable curb-stops of any type is prohibited.
   M.   The use of asphalt paving is not acceptable for sidewalks or fuel-
dispensing areas.
2.   Design Standards. Off-street parking lots, and areas, sales lots, loading
and unloading areas, vehicle storage facilities and residential uses other than
one-and two-family residences shall, observe the following design guidelines:
   A.   General use parking and traveled areas including all required and non-
required parking, driveways, entrances and exits, vehicles or sales.
      (1)   Required Parking and Aisle Widths. Each automobile space shall be
not less than 171 square feet in area, with dimensions of nine feet by 19 feet.
 
Type                                  Minimum Aisle Width
Two-way traffic angled parking        27 feet
Two-way traffic perpendicular parking 27 feet
One-way traffic angled parking        27 feet
One-way traffic perpendicular parking 27 feet
 
      (2)   Parking areas must provide adequate entrance and exit driveways to
connect each parking space with a street or alley open to use by the public
except where vehicles are parked by attendants. One-way entrance and exit
driveways shall not be less than 13 feet nor exceed 16 feet in width. Two-way
entrance and exit driveways must be 24 through 30 feet in width. Driveways to
accommodate semis shall be 30 through 40 feet in width.
      (3)   Parking spaces including loading and unloading areas shall be
located in such a way that maneuvering of vehicles to enter or exit can be
accomplished entirely on private property and does not require backing into or
other use of a public street or alley.
      (4)   Pavement Requirements. Six inches of Portland cement concrete or
asphalt or four inches of rock base with four inches of asphalt on a prepared
sub-base or sub-grade. The standards should be considered a minimum. Actual
pavement design shall be based on consideration of traffic loadings, soil
support capability and material specifications.
      (5)   Layout and Markings. The developer or owner shall submit to the
Building Official for review and approval a detailed and accurately scaled
parking lot layout clearly showing the location of parking spaces and aisles,
all conforming to said standards. Upon construction of the parking lot, the
parking spaces must be marked on the parking lot surface according to the
extent that those spaces are required in connection with the development.
Parking aisles should be designed to reduce pedestrian-vehicular conflicts by
placing them perpendicular to the structure. Handicapped parking stalls shall
be designed, installed and signed as required by Chapter 18 of the Iowa
Administrative Code and all ADA requirements.
      (6)   Required Green Space. All landscaping must conform to Landscaping,
Screening, and Planting Standards.
      (7)   Screening Requirements. All parking lots shall be screened along
the boundary of the parking lot adjacent to residential uses. This screening
shall consist of a landscaped area no less than 20 feet in width, measured
perpendicular to the property line. No screen is required between abutting
parking lots.
      (8)   Bicycle Parking.
         a.   Any type of use that is likely to have bicycle traffic shall
provide parking accommodations for bicycles as provided at a minimum in the
following chart:
 
Bicycle Parking Requirements
Number of Parking Stalls Required Bicycle Spaces
1-50                     2
51-100                   5
101-150                  8
151-200                  10
Over 200                 10 plus 2 additional spaces for each 50 parking stalls
 
         b.   Bicycle parking facilities shall include bicycle racks secured to
prevent easy removal, bicycle lockers, or bicycle posts or bollards expressly
designed for the secure storage.
         c.   The location of bicycle parking facilities shall be at least as
convenient to the main entrance of the primary use as the most convenient
automobile parking not reserved for use by disabled people.
         d.   Bicycle parking should be located to prevent hazards or
obstructions to the normal flow of pedestrians into a use.
      (9)   Stacking Requirements for Drive-Through Services.
         a.   Commercial establishments providing drive-in, or drive-through
services shall provide minimum on-site stacking distance as provided in the
following chart:
Off-Street Stacking Requirements
Type of Operation Minimum Stacking Space
Off-Street Stacking Requirements
Type of Operation                      Minimum Stacking Space
Financial services with drive-up       3 vehicles per window or kiosk
tellers
Financial services with drive-up ATM   3 vehicles per ATM station
Self-service or automatic car wash     Entrance: 4 vehicles per bay
                                       Exit: 1 vehicle per bay
Fast food restaurant*                  Behind menu board: 4 vehicles
                                       Behind first service window: 2 vehicles
Photo processing, dry cleaning, or     2 vehicles per service window
other drive-up personal services
Gas Stations                           2 vehicles per pump
Gated parking lot, community entrance, 1 vehicle per gate or door
or overhead door
Note: Minimum vehicle lane shall be 12 feet. Vehicle length=20 feet.
*May be increased based on site plan review.
         b.   The Council may reduce these requirements for specific projects,
provided that the applicant can present a traffic study prepared by a
professional traffic engineer demonstrating that such a reduction is
appropriate to the function of the project.
   B.   Tractor and trailer terminals, service centers, intermodal operations,
and open storage areas including but not limited to vehicle entry paths, apron
space, all driveways and other traveled areas.
      (1)   Surface Layout. The developer shall submit to the Building Official
for review and approval a detailed and accurately scaled hard surface layout
clearly showing the location of parking spaces and aisles, truck entry paths,
apron space, driveways and other traveled areas, all conforming to the codes in
this design standards section.
      (2)   Pavement Requirements. Seven inches of Portland cement concrete or
nine inches of asphalt or six inches rock base with six inches of asphalt on a
prepared sub-base or sub-grade. The standards should be considered a minimum.
Actual pavement design shall be based on consideration of traffic loadings,
soil support capability, and material specifications.
      (3)   Required Green Space. A minimum of 20 feet of landscaped area is
required between a parking lot, loading and unloading spaces and the property
line. All landscaping must conform to Landscaping, Screening, and Planting
Standards.
      (4)   Screening. All parking spaces and aisles, truck entry paths, apron
spaces, driveways and other traveled areas shall be screened along the boundary
adjacent to residential uses. This screening shall consist of a landscaped area
no less than 20 ft in width, measured perpendicular to the property line.
3.   Submission of Plans. A plan drawn to scale and indicating how the off-
street parking or loading and unloading requirements are to be fulfilled shall
accompany an application for a Building Permit. Said plan shall show all
elements necessary to indicate fulfillment of said requirements, inclusive of
the following:
   A.   Delineation of individual parking and loading spaces;
   B.   Circulation area necessary to serve spaces;
   C.   Ingress and egress;
   D.   Material specifications and locations for paving, barriers, lighting,
and landscaping;
   E.   Dimensions, continuity, and substance of screening;
   F.   Grading drainage, surfacing, and subgrading details;
   G.   Delineation of obstacles to parking and circulation in finished parking
areas;
   H.   Specifications as to signage;
   I.   Delineation of handicapped parking spaces and sidewalks;
   J.   An overall site plan showing lot boundaries and building and parking
locations
1.   The parking plan must be part of the building plan and specifications and
must be reviewed and approved as described by the Building Official.
4.   Completion Time for Off Street Parking, Loading, and Unloading Areas.
Required parking lots and areas, sales lots, loading and unloading areas,
personal and recreational vehicle parking, truck terminals, and intermodal
facilities shall be improved as required and made available for use before the
final inspection is completed by the Building Official and before issuance of a
certificate of occupancy.
5.   Parking Spaces Required. The number of off-street parking spaces required
shall be no less than as set forth in the following:
1. Institutional Types*
College/Technical Schools               One space for every three full-time
                                        equivalent students
Cultural Service                        One space per each 500 square feet
Hospitals                               One and one-half spaces for each bed
Convalescent and Nursing Homes          One space for every three beds
Religious Assembly                      One space per six-person capacity in
                                        the main auditorium
Day Care Services                       One space for every six children
Schools – Elementary and Junior High  Two spaces per classroom
Schools – High School                 12 spaces per classroom
2. Places of Public Assembly*
Clubs and lodges                        One space per four person capacity
Commercial recreation (Indoor)          Half space per capacity of the occupant
                                        load of the facility
Public Assembly                         One space per four-person capacity
Sports arena or auditorium              One space per four-person capacity
Theaters                                One space per four-person capacity
Commercial recreation (Outdoor)         Parking spaces equal to 50% of the
                                        occupant load of the facility
3. Service and Retail Sales*
Agricultural sales and service          One space per 1,500 square feet of
                                        floor area
Automobile repair (Minor)               One space per 500 square feet of floor
                                        area
Automobile repair (Major)               One space per 750 square feet of floor
                                        area
Automobile service establishment        One space per 750 square feet of floor
                                        area
Automobile sales and leasing            Once space per 500 square feet of floor
                                        area
Consumer service establishment          Once space per 200 square feet of floor
                                        area
Equipment sales and rental              One space per 400 square feet of floor
                                        area
Financial services                      One space per 400 square feet of floor
                                        area
Funeral services                        One space per six person capacity
Hotels and motels                       One space per each guest room
Laundry and dry cleaning                One space for every 150 square feet of
                                        floor area
Medical and dental offices              Two spaces for each office, examining
                                        room and treatment room
Professional offices                    One space for every 400 square feet of
                                        floor area
Restaurant (General)                    One space per three-person capacity
Restaurant (Drive-in or Carry-out)      One space per three-person capacity
Retail sales (Including grocery stores) One space for every 200 square feet of
                                        floor area
Retail sales (Including bulky           One space for every 400 square feet of
merchandise, household furniture,       floor area
appliances)
Tavern                                  One space per three-person capacity
Veterinary services                     One space for each office, examining
                                        room, and treatment room
4. Industrial Types
Contractor and construction yards       One space per employee
Laboratories and research facilities*   One space for every 400 square feet of
                                        floor area
Printing and publishing*                One space for every 400 square feet of
                                        floor area
Wholesale and distribution*             One space for every 500 square feet of
                                        floor area
Manufacturing                           One space for every 500 square feet of
                                        floor area
5. Any Other Use
As specified by the Planning and Zoning Commission and Council
* Additional parking spaces for employees shall be one per each employee on the
working shift that has the largest staff scheduled.
 
6.   Loading Spaces Required. Any use that involves the receipt or distribution
of freight, merchandise supplies, vehicles, or equipment as part of its typical
operation shall provide and maintain adequate space for off-street loading.
Loading space shall meet the following requirements:
   A.   Loading and unloading berths shall each contain at least 900 square
feet measuring 12 feet in width and 75 feet in length, and shall have a
clearance of at least 14 feet.
   B.   Off-street loading space may not be located in any required yard
adjacent to a residential district.
   C.   Circulation and access to loading spaces must allow maneuvering into or
out of the space to occur outside of any public street or right-of-way.
170.03   RESIDENTIAL OFF-STREET PARKING.
1.   At the time of major repair, replacement, construction, or enlargement of
a structure or major repair, replacement or enlargement of the parking surface,
a hard-surfaced parking area, other than the street or public way, shall be
provided for use in the storage of passenger automobiles.
2.   Parking Provisions for Personal Vehicles. All vehicles in one-, two-
family, and multi-family residential uses shall be parked or stored in the
following manner, unless otherwise permitted herein:
   A.   All residential drives required, and non-required parking surfaces
shall be hard surfaced, i.e., concrete, asphalt, or brick pavers. However, all
sidewalks and driveway approaches need to be concrete.
   B.   All required parking spaces shall be a minimum of 200 square feet in
area, with dimensions of 10 feet by 20 feet.
   C.   Pavement Requirements. Four inches of Portland cement concrete or four
inches of granular sub-base with brick pavers or use of asphalt material under
current Code and ordinances but in any event not less than four inches of
asphalt shall be used. The standards should be considered a minimum. Actual
pavement design shall be based on consideration of traffic loadings, soil
support capability and material specifications. All asphalt overlay shall be in
lifts of at least one and one-half inches. A permit shall be obtained prior to
starting any overlay project.
   D.   Parking is permitted in the side yard or in the rear yard, behind the
required front yard setback and must be contiguous with the primary surfaced
driveway. However, this provision is not intended to prohibit the permitted
parking in the driveway.
   E.   Parking requirements must be met without the use of public right-of-
way.
   F.   Parking requirements must be met before a certificate of occupancy is
issued.
   G.   Driveways shall have a maximum grade of 10 percent. Driveways and curb
cuts shall be located not less than three feet from the side lot line. Curb
cuts for straight curbs and the flare for rolled curbs shall be three feet
wider than the driveway pavement on each side. Curb cuts shall be prohibited
within 50 feet of an intersecting corner.
3.   Parking Spaces Required. The number of off-street parking spaces required
shall be no less than as set forth in the following:
1. Residential Types
Boarding, lodging, rooming houses, or ½ space for each rooming unit
bed and breakfasts
Dormitories                           1 space for each 300 square feet of floor
                                      area
Dwelling, single-family attached and  2 spaces per dwelling unit
detached dwelling, townhouse
Dwelling, two-family and multi-family
Efficiency and One bedroom            2 spaces per dwelling unit
Two bedroom or more                   2 spaces per dwelling unit
Government sponsored elderly housing* ½ space per resident
Group care home*                      ½ space per resident
Family home*                          ½ space per resident
* Additional parking spaces for employees shall be one per each employee on the
working shift that has the largest staff scheduled.
4.   Parking for Personal Vehicles, Recreational Vehicles, Boats and Commercial
Vehicles and Equipment.
   A.   Applicability. This section permits the parking of personal vehicles on
a single lot in a residential district subject to specific conditions. In order
to be parked in a residential area, the vehicles must be in working order and
have applicable licenses and registrations.
      (1)   Personal vehicles include: passenger cars, vans, pick-up trucks,
camper shells, toppers, and other similar appurtenances intended for attachment
to a personal vehicle.
      (2)   Commercial vehicles or equipment include but are not limited to tow
trucks, semi-tractors or trailers, backhoes, end loaders, and similar items, of
gross vehicle weight of six tons or more, shall be prohibited from being parked
in a residential district except as provided herein. Residents currently owning
and parking commercial vehicles in excess of six tons shall obtain a permit to
continue parking said commercial vehicle at their primary residence in a
residential area within 90 days of the effective date of this Code. See Section
170.04 of the permitting requirements.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles, trailers, and boats may be parked in off-
street, hard surfaced areas in residential districts as provided herein.
   B.   Location of Parking for Personal Vehicles.
      (1)   Parking is permitted within any enclosed structure when such
structure conforms to the regulations of its zoning district.
      (2)   Parking is permitted on a paved driveway (outside of an enclosed
structure) within the front yard setback, but shall in no case encroach upon
the public right-of-way.
   Parking may occur in the rear yard setback (outside of an enclosed structure
and not on the front yard paved driveway) if the Building Official determines
that such parking conforms to the provisions of the Unified Land Development
Code and the parking space is provided on a paved surface connected by a paved
surface to a dedicated public right-of-way or alley.
   C.   Location of Parking and Storage for Commercial Vehicles and Equipment.
Parking for commercial vehicles and equipment within a residential district is
subject to the following additional conditions. These conditions are in
addition to those requirements for parking of personal vehicles.
      (1)   Commercial vehicles and equipment must be maintained in a clean,
well-kept state.
      (2)   Commercial vehicles and equipment must be parked outside of
required front yard and side yard setbacks.
      (3)   No parts or accessories, attachments, or similar items may be
stored on the residential lot, unless in an enclosed structure.
      (4)   At no time shall the commercial vehicle and equipment be parked on
the street or public right of way.
      (5)   A special permit is obtained under Section 170.05.
   D.   Location of Parking for Recreational Vehicles, Trailers, and Boats.
Parking and storage of recreational vehicles, trailers, and boats within
residential districts is subject to the following additional conditions. These
conditions are in addition to those requirements for parking of personal
vehicles.
      (1)   Recreational vehicles, trailers, and boats must be maintained in a
clean, well-kept state and owned by the owner of the primary residence.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles, trailers, and boats equipped with liquefied
petroleum gas containers must meet the current standards of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, the United States Department of Transportation, or the
American Society of Mechanical Engineers regarding use of such containers. Any
valves must be closed at all times that the vehicle is not in preparation for
immediate use. Leaks in containers must be repaired immediately.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles and trailers may be used as temporary lodging
by non-paying guests of a resident for a maximum of 30 days total during any
calendar year.
      (4)   Recreational vehicles, trailers and boats may not be permanently
connected to utility lines.
      (5)   Recreational vehicles, trailers and boats may not be used for the
storage of goods, materials, or equipment other than those items that pertain
to the use of the vehicle.
      (6)   Recreational vehicles, trailers and boats shall be parked outside
of required front yard and street side yard setbacks.
170.04   SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS: STORAGE AND PARKING OF UNLICENSED OR OTHER
VEHICLES.
The storage or keeping of motor vehicles not having a properly issued current
motor vehicle registration and current motor vehicle license plate properly
displayed is prohibited on any lot, parcel or tract of land or part thereof,
situated within the zoning jurisdiction of the City, except for motor vehicles
held for sale by a licensed motor vehicle dealer at his or her place of
business in a zoning district that permits such use. Nothing in this provision
shall be deemed to limit enforcement of storage of unlicensed or abandoned
vehicles under the ordinances of the City.
170.05   SPECIAL PERMITTING PROVISIONS FOR OTHERWISE PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL
PARKING.
Subject to compliance with Section 170.03 of this Code, a special parking
permit will be issued to individuals that have at the time of adoption of this
Code was enacted, routinely parked commercial vehicles at their primary
residence in residential zones and have obtained a permit as provided herein
within 90 days. The special parking permits are issued to qualified individuals
at their primary residence and are not in any way attached to the ownership of
the land. If a qualified individual moves from their current address, the
special parking permit allows the individual to park commercial vehicles at
their new address subject to compliance with this section and Section 170.03 of
this Code. No more than two commercial vehicles or equipment may be permitted
at any one location, regardless of ownership. In other words, whether the
commercial vehicle or equipment is leased, owned by a corporation, partnership,
spouse, etc., only two items will be allowed on any residential premises
regardless of the underlying ordinance. When the owner of the primary residence
dies, no permit shall be renewed for that vehicle or equipment. Further, when
the vehicle or equipment is disposed of and not immediately replaced, no
further permits shall be issued. A replacement of the items will be allowed
upon return of the permit to the City for the item being replaced and the
replacement be obtained within 10 days. Special parking permits under this
section will be issued by the Clerk upon application by the qualified
individual and the payment of an annual fee of $20.00 per vehicle to be parked
under permission of the permit. The special parking permit must be displayed on
each vehicle. Application for the special parking permit shall be considered as
the granting of consent for the peace officer to come upon the property and
inspect the commercial vehicles for the required special parking permit. In
addition, the party seeking the special parking permit shall be subject to the
following:
1.   This parking of commercial vehicles is accessory to the applicant’s use of
the property.
2.   All required parking in any residential district shall be outside of the
required front yard.
3.   All required parking in any residential district shall be off-street
parking.
4.   The parking is intended for the permit holder’s vehicles only.
5.   All parking areas established shall be paved and maintained by the permit
holder.
6.   All repairs to said commercial vehicles and equipment shall be completed
within seven days or conducted in an enclosed garage.
7.   All accessories to the commercial vehicles and equipment shall be neatly
stored in an enclosed garage.
8.   No salvage vehicles or equipment may be stored on the premises unless
completely stored in an enclosed garage.
9.   The permit holder shall not stockpile materials on the property
170.06   VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
Any person found guilty of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to the penalty provided by Chapter 3. Each day that a
violation is allowed to continue shall constitute a separate violation of the
provisions of this section and may be pursued as a municipal infraction
according to Chapter 3.
CHAPTER 171
SIGN REGULATIONS
171.01 Sign Permits                  171.09 Sign Construction and Maintenance
171.02 Prohibited Signs              171.10 Abandoned Signs
171.03 Types of Permitted Signs      171.11 Sign Illumination
171.04 Permitted Signs by Type and   171.12 Sign Motion
Zoning District
171.05 Auxiliary Sign Elements       171.13 Exempt Signs
171.06 Permitted Signs by Numbers,   171.14 Non-Conforming Signs
Dimensions, And Location
171.07 Number of Free-Standing Signs 171.15   Enforcement
Per Location
171.08 Sign Sizing                   171.16 Appeals And Variances
 
171.01   SIGN PERMITS.
1.   Signs shall not be erected or installed without first obtaining a Building
Permit.
2.   All sign permits will be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission
for their recommendation.
3.   A permit issued for a temporary sign shall designate the dates for use of
the temporary sign.
4.   The fee for a temporary sign permit is $10.00 per sign.
5.   A temporary sign permit may be renewed only once, on the condition that
the renewal shall last for no more than 45 days and that the applicant pays an
additional permit fee of $100.00 for each temporary sign.
171.02   PROHIBITED SIGNS.
1.   All signs on public property, unless specifically authorized by the
appropriate public agency.
2.   All pole signs.
3.   All roof signs.
4.   All off-premises off-site signs (i.e., billboards).
5.   All pole banners located on public right-of-way.
6.   Any sign constructed which resembles any official marker erected by the
City, State or any governmental agency.
7.   Any sign or portion of a sign that encroaches upon or overhangs the City’s
right-of-way of any street, sidewalk, or highway. This shall include any
political campaign sign.
8.   Any outdoor sign or portion of a sign that is located on any property
without the consent of the owner, holder, lessee, agent or trustee.
9.   Any sign that obstructs the view of any street or railroad so as to render
dangerous the use of the street or road or by reason of position, shape or
color would conflict with the proper functioning of any traffic sign or signal.
10.   More than one free standing advertising sign erected per building, per
street side.
11.   More than one business sign located on one free standing advertising sign
at any one advertising sign location.
12.   All signs painted on or attached to rocks, trees or other natural
objects.
13.   All signs or sign structures which resemble or conflict with traffic-
control signs or devices, which mislead or confuse persons traveling on public
streets, or which create a traffic hazard.
171.03   TYPES OF PERMITTED SIGNS.
1.   Directional On-Premises Signs.
   A.   One on-premises directional sign is permitted at each entrance to or
exit from a multifamily residential, civic, commercial, industrial,
transportation, or parking use.
   B.   Such directional signs are not considered in calculating compliance
with the total sign area.
   C.   Directional signs shall not exceed four square feet in face area per
side.
   D.   Directional signs shall not exceed four feet in height above the
ground.
2.   Ground and Monument Signs.
   A.   Ground and monument signs may be used on the premises if the front wall
of the building or structure which the sign serves is set back at least 15 feet
from the right-of-way line of the street, private way, or court to which the
sign is oriented.
   B.   A monument sign should be no larger than 32 square feet and six feet in
height (residential) and no more than 64 square feet and eight feet in height
(non-residential).
   C.   A maximum of one sign per entrance is permitted.
3.   Projecting Signs and Graphics.
   A.   Each projecting sign must maintain at least the following vertical
clearances to the bottom of the sign:
      (1)   Eight feet six inches over private sidewalks.
      (2)   If a canopy is used, the canopy may reduce vertical clearance of
the sign from eight feet six inches to seven feet six inches over a private
sidewalk.
      (3)   Sixteen feet six inches over alleys, driveways or parking lots.
   B.   No projecting sign may be located within 25 feet of any other
projecting sign.
   C.   Projecting signs must minimize visible support structure and may not
expose guy wires, cables, turnbuckles, angle iron, or other similar external
support structure.
4.   Temporary Signs.
   A.   A temporary sign shall be defined as a sign that is designed to inform
the public that a new business is opening or will be opening. The use of a
temporary sign shall be limited to three months unless otherwise extended
herein.
   B.   A maximum of three temporary signs may be installed.
   C.   A temporary sign can be a maximum of 32 square feet.
   D.   Temporary Promotional Banners.
      (1)   A temporary banner is defined as a banner that may be used for no
longer than 30 days.
      (2)   Temporary banners or cloth signs may be utilized as projecting
graphics in certain zoning districts.
      (3)   A temporary banner sign may not project from a building and may not
exceed the wall height of the building.
      (4)   Maximum projection for any temporary banner is five feet, with a
minimum clearance of 10 feet.
      (5)   Maximum size of a temporary banner is 32 square feet.
5.   Tourist-Oriented Directional Signing. This provision applies to official
signing that is located within the public right-of-way that identifies and
gives directions to activities or sites of significant interest to the public,
subject to the exclusive regulations of the City. Applications for these types
of signs are made available at City Hall and the Mayor’s office shall be
responsible for approving all such signs. The Mayor may reasonably limit the
place, time, and manner of the use of such signs as part of the City’s
regulations.
   A.   Such signage shall be installed only when sufficient space is
available.
   B.   Such signage may only be installed where advance notification of an
activity or site would reduce conflicts and improve traffic safety.
   C.   Such signage is owned and controlled by the City with the intent for
building tourism, and are limited to a descriptive name, directional arrow, and
travel distance to the activity or site.
   D.   Signs shall have the following color schemes:
      (1)   Green signs for direction;
      (2)   Blue signs for services for travelers; and
      (3)   Brown signs for recreational and cultural points of interest.
6.   Wall Signs and Graphics.
   A.   For the purpose of calculating permitted sign areas pursuant to this
chapter, signs painted on the walls of buildings and signs mounted on cupolas
shall be considered wall signs.
   B.   A wall sign shall not:
      (1)   Extend more than 18 inches from the wall to which it is attached.
      (2)   Cover in whole or in part any wall opening or major architectural
feature of the building.
      (3)   Extend beyond the corner of the wall to which it is attached except
where attached to another wall sign, it may extend to provide for the
attachment.
      (4)   Extend beyond its building’s roofline.
      (5)   Where permitted, canopy signs are counted as wall signs when
calculating total permitted sign area.
7.   Window Signs.
   A.   Window signs may not occupy more than 40 percent of the total area of
the window in which they are displayed.
   B.   Up to two percent of this the total window area may be permanent window
signs.
   C.   Permanent window signs are not counted against the total permitted sign
area for each premise.
171.04   PERMITTED SIGNS BY TYPE AND ZONING DISTRICT.
 
           R-1  R-3
Sign Types R-2  R-M C/L C-1 C-2 TC C/A BP M-1 M-2
           R/CC
                  R-1  R-3
Sign Types        R-2  R-M  C/L C-1 C-2 TC C/A BP M-1 M-2
                  R/CC
Detached Signs
Residential       P(E) P(E) P   P   P   N  N   N  N   N
Directional       N    P    P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
Ground            P    P    P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
Pole              N    N    N   N   N   N  N   N  N   N
Attached Signs
Awning*           N    N    P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
Banner            N    N    N   N   N   N  N   N  N   N
Building Marker*  P    P    P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
Canopy*           N    N    P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
Incidental*       P(C) P(C) P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
Marquee           N    N    P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
Projecting        N    N    P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
Roof (Above Peak) N    N    N   N   N   N  N   N  N   N
Roof (Integral)   N    N    N   N   N   N  N   N  N   N
Wall              P    P    P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
Window            P    P    P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
Temporary         N    N    P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
Miscellaneous
Flag Sign         N    N    N   N   N   N  N   N  N   N
P Permitted for All Uses
P(C) Permitted for Civic Uses
N Not Permitted
P(E) Not Permitted Except Exempt Signs
 
171.05   AUXILLIARY SIGN ELEMENTS.
 
 R-1  R-3
 R-2  R-M C/L C-1 C-2 TC C/A BP M-1 M-2
 R/CC
                       R-1  R-3
                       R-2  R-M C/L C-1 C-2 TC C/A BP M-1 M-2
                       R/CC
Design Element
Bare Bulb              N    N   N   N   N   N  N   N  N   N
Direct                 N    N   N   N   N   N  N   N  N   N
Flame                  N    N   N   N   N   N  N   N  N   N
Flashing               N    N   N   N   N   N  N   N  N   N
Indirect               P    P   P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
Internal               P    P   P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
Neon                   N    N   P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
Other
Electronic Information N    N   P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
Moving                 N    N   P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
Rotating               N    N   P   P   P   P  P   P  P   P
P Permitted for All Uses
P(C) Permitted for Civic Uses
N Not Permitted
171.06   PERMITTED SIGNS BY NUMBERS, DIMENSIONS, AND LOCATION.
Each individual sign shall comply with the regulations for maximum quantity,
maximum size, minimum setbacks, and height limits shown in the following table:
                R-1
                R-2          C-2         C/A         M-1
Zoning District R-3  C/L C-1 (Note 2) TC (Note 2) BP M-2
                R/CC                                 (Note 1)
                RM
                      R-1
                      R-2          C-2           C/A                 M-1
Zoning District       R-3  C/L C-1 (Note 2)  TC  (Note 2)  BP        M-2
                      R/CC                                           (Note 1)
                      RM
Detached Signs
Number permitted per  1    1   1   N/A       1   N/A       N/A       N/A
premise
Per feet of frontage  N/A  N/A 1   1 per 300 N/A 1 per 300 1 per 300 1 per 300
of property
Maximum size* (square X    100 100 300       100 300       150       300
feet)
Maximum height (feet)
of structure above    10   10  10  25        25  35        15        35
ground
Front yard setback    10   10  10  10        0   5         5         0
(feet)
Side yard setback     10   10  5   5         0   5         5         0
(feet)
Attached Signs
Maximum size* (square X    50  150 N/A       N/A 300       300       300
feet)
Percent of street          15% 15% 20%       20% 20%       20%       20%
façade
Note 1 Within the total maximum sign allowance permitted by Section 171.08,
properties in the C/A Zoning District may elect to locate an outdoor
advertising sign in excess of 300 square feet, subject to the conditions set
forth in Section 171.14.
171.07   NUMBER OF FREE-STANDING SIGNS PER LOCATION.
1.   No more than one free standing advertising sign may be erected per
building, per dedicated public street side.
2.   For buildings containing one business, no more than one business sign may
be displayed on any one free standing advertising sign, at any one location.
3.   For buildings containing more than one business, each business may use
their pro-rata share of the signage space allowed in proportion to that
business entity’s percentage of occupancy of the developed premises.
171.08   SIGN SIZING.
1.   Total Permitted Sign Area.
   A.   Total permitted sign area is one of the following:
      (1)   Residential. See Section 171.05.
      (2)   Commercial and Industrial. For frontage(s) on a dedicated street,
two times the frontage for a single frontage property or two times the longest
frontage for a single frontage property plus half additional frontage for
multiple frontage property.
   B.   For common developments containing several business entities, each
business may use only their pro-rata share of the frontage allowed for signage
in proportion to that business entity’s percentage of occupancy for the
developed premises.
2.   Sign Area.
   A.   Sign area includes the entire area within the perimeter enclosing the
extreme limits of the sign, excluding any structure essential for support or
service of the sign, or architectural elements of the building.
   B.   The area of double-faced (back-to-back) signs is calculated on the
largest face only.
   C.   For signs with more than two faces, the area of each face is calculated
separately and totaled.
   D.   The sign area for ground signs, monument signs and architectural sign
bands is calculated as the area enclosing the extreme limits of the sign copy
only.
   E.   In the case of letters mounted to a wall, the total area of all the
letters themselves including the space between the letters is included within
the sign area.
3.   Sign Height. The height of a sign is measured from the average grade level
below the sign to the topmost point of the sign or sign structure.
4.   Sign Setback. The setback of a sign is measured from the property line to
the nearest part of the sign placed on the property.
5.   Residential Signs.
   A.   Attached Wall Signs.
      (1)   Total permitted sign area - two square feet per premise.
      (2)   Maximum area - two square feet.
      (3)   Maximum height - eight feet.
   B.   Detached signs - Not permitted, except exempt signs.
   C.   Neighborhood identification signs:
      (1)   Total permitted sign area - 32 square feet including support
structure.
      (2)   Maximum Height - six feet.
      (3)   Minimum setback - 15 feet back from property line.
6.   Commercial Signs.
   A.   Attached Wall Signs.
      (1)   Maximum area – 20 percent of street façade.
      (2)   Maximum height - top of exterior wall.
      (3)   Projecting Signs.
         a.   Maximum area - 40 square feet.
         b.   Maximum height - 24 feet.
   B.   Ground/Monument.
      (1)   Maximum area - 64 square feet.
      (2)   Maximum height - eight feet.
      (3)   Minimum setback - 15 feet from City right-of-way line.
7.   Industrial Signs.
   A.   Attached Wall Signs.
      (1)   Total permitted sign area - 2x frontage.
      (2)   Maximum area - 20 percent street façade.
      (3)   Maximum height -wall height.
      (4)   Projecting Signs.
         a.   Maximum area - 40 square feet.
         b.   Maximum height - height of wall.
   B.   Ground and Monument.
      (1)   Maximum area - 64 square feet.
      (2)   Maximum height - eight feet.
      (3)   Minimum setbacks -15 feet from City right-of-way line.
8.   Permitted Signs by Maximum Permitted Area and District. This maximum
permitted area for all signs on a premises excluding directional signs,
building marker signs, and US, State, or university flags shall not exceed the
lesser of the following:
 
                           R-1
                           R-2                                          M-1
          Zoning R-3 ricC/L        C-1        C-2 TC  C/A BP  M-2
                           R/CC
                           RM
Square feet of signage per N/A    1.0        1.0        2.0 1.5 2.5 1.0 2.0
linear foot of frontage
Maximum total square feet  Note 3 300 Note 4 300 Note 5 800 500 800 300 800
Note 1 200 square feet for civic or commercial uses, two square feet for
residential uses, including home occupations.
Note 2 50 square feet for project identification signs or civic uses, two
square feet for residential uses, including home occupations.
Note 3 32 square feet for civic uses, 50 square feet for project
identification signs for multi-family or mobile home developments and for
non-residential uses when permitted, two square feet for residential uses,
including home occupations.
Note 4 Maximum limits apply to non-residential premises only. On premises
with primary residential use, 50 square feet for project identification
signs for multi-family developments, two square feet for residential uses,
including home occupations.
Note 5 One business center identification sign with a maximum area of 100
square feet is permitted in addition to the maximum total square feet
established here, subject to the regulations set forth in Section 171.06.
171.09   SIGN CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
1.   Construction.
   A.   All signs shall be constructed of permanent materials.
   B.   All signs shall be permanently attached to the ground, a building, or
another structure by direct attachment to a rigid wall, frame or structure
except for temporary banners, flags, temporary signs, and window signs which
conform in all respects with the requirements of this chapter.
2.   Maintenance.
   A.   All signs shall be maintained in accordance with all applicable
requirements of the City’s building and electrical codes.
   B.   All signs shall be maintained in good and safe structural condition.
   C.   The painted portions of signs shall be periodically repainted and be
kept in good condition.
   D.   The general area in the vicinity of any ground sign must be kept free
and clear of sign materials, weeds, debris, trash, and other refuse within an
area having a radius equal to the height of any such ground sign.
   E.   All signs must be readable.
171.10   ABANDONED SIGNS.
In addition to all other applicable regulations, sign structures that contain
no sign copy on all faces for a continuous period of six months shall be
considered an abandoned sign and shall be removed.
171.11   SIGN ILLUMINATION.
1.   Signs may be illuminated by indirect and internal lighting only, subject
to the following conditions:
   A.   Lighting, when installed, must be positioned in such a manner that
light is not directed onto an adjoining property or onto a public street or
highway.
   B.   No sign shall be lit in a manner that impairs the vision of the driver
of any motor vehicle.
   C.   Signs may not contain or be illuminated by flashing lights.
   D.   Signs may include an electronic information sign.
   E.   Lighting shall be shielded to direct light away from streets and
surrounding property and shall not cause glare or impair vision.
   F.   Neon or incandescent illumination that is integral to the design of the
sign face shall be permitted on such sign face, provided that this illumination
does not cause glare or impair vision.
171.12   SIGN MOTION.
Slow and continuous motion or rotation within a portion of the sign face
comprising less than 38 percent of the area of such sign shall be permitted.
171.13   EXEMPT SIGNS.
1.   Official signs authorized by a government or governmental subdivision that
give traffic, directional warning information.
2.   Seasonal decorations for display on private or public property.
3.   Political signs, provided they are installed no more than two months prior
to the election to which they pertain and are removed within seven days after
the election to which they refer, except no political campaign signs may be
placed on the City right-of-way.
4.   Street numbers.
5.   “For sale” signs that are equal to or less than six square feet.
171.14   NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
Any sign in existence on the effective date of this chapter which does not
comply with the provisions of the chapter and which at the time of its erection
was in conformity with all other applicable ordinances and statutes may
continue in existence so long as the size is not increased beyond its existing
size and it complies with the construction and maintenance requirements of this
chapter.
171.15   ENFORCEMENT.
1.   Remedies.
   A.   If a violation of this chapter occurs, the City shall have the
following remedies:
      (1)   Issuing a stop-work order for any and all work on any signs.
      (2)   Seeking an injunction or other order of restraint or abatement that
requires the removal of the sign(s) or the correction of the nonconformity;
      (3)   Imposing any penalties that can be imposed directly by the City
under this chapter;
      (4)   The Building Official can order the removal and disposal of any
sign that poses a danger to the public health or safety, or has been abandoned
or is not used by the property owner for at least six months,
   B.   Procedure. The City shall notify the property owner that the sign is
considered abandoned and shall direct the property owner to have the sign
removed within 10 days of the date of the letter. Failure of the property owner
to remove the sign shall authorize the City to enter upon the premises for the
purposes of removing the sign and charging the cost of the sign removal to the
property owner through the placement of a lien on the property or shall
authorize the City to institute abatement procedures under the Code to seek
fines and penalties for the property owner’s failure and refusal to remove the
sign and to provide for court-ordered authority for the City to remove the sign
from the premises.
2.   Penalties. Any property owner, sign erector, installer, or other person
who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with or resists
the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, shall be deemed
guilty of a civil municipal infraction and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined $200.00 for a first offense and $500.00 for each subsequent offense.
171.16   APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
Property owners may request a variance in this chapter or may appeal the
Planning and Zoning Commission recommendation to the Council for the Council’s
review and determination.
CHAPTER 172
NONCONFORMING USES AND DEVELOPMENT
 
172.01 Purpose              172.04 Repair, Maintenance, and Remodeling of
                            Nonconforming Structures
172.02 Regulations Additive 172.05 Recognition of Nonconformances
172.03 All Districts
172.01   PURPOSE.
Within the various districts established by this title or amendments that may
later be adopted, there exist structures and uses of land and structures that
were lawful prior to the adoption of the ordinance codified in this title but
that would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the provisions of this
title. It is the intent of this title to permit these nonconformities to
continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. Such uses
are declared by this title to be incompatible with permitted uses in the
districts involved. All nonconforming use of land, use of structures and
nonconforming structures shall cease upon change of ownership (with the
exception for change of ownership to an immediate family member), of the land
use of structure or structure.
172.02   REGULATIONS ADDITIVE.
Regulations for nonconforming uses are in addition to regulations for
nonconforming structures. In the event of a conflict, the most restrictive
regulation shall apply.
172.03   ALL DISTRICTS.
1.   Nonconforming Use of Land. The lawful use of land upon which no building
or structure is erected or constructed that becomes nonconforming under the
terms of this title as adopted or amended may be continued so long as it
remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of the ordinance codified in this title.
   B.   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel that was not occupied by such use at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of the ordinance codified in this
title.
   C.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than three months, any subsequent use of such land shall conform
to the regulations of the district in which such land is located.
2.   Nonconforming Use of Structures. If a lawful use of a structure, or of a
structure and land in combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of the ordinance codified in this title, that would not be allowed in
the district under the terms of this title, the use may be continued so long as
it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   No existing structure devoted entirely or in part to a use not
permitted by this title in the district in which it is located, except when
required by law, shall be enlarged, extended, reconstructed, moved, or
structurally altered, unless the use is changed to a use permitted in the
district in which such structure is located.
   B.   In the event that a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and
land in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for a period of three months,
the use of the same shall thereafter conform to the uses permitted in the
district in which it is located. Where nonconforming use status applies to a
structure and land in combination, removal or destruction of the structure
shall eliminate the nonconforming status of the land.
   C.   Any structure devoted to a use made nonconforming by this title that is
destroyed by any means to an extent of 50 percent of the assessed value of the
structure at the time of destruction, shall not be reconstructed and used as
before such happening. If the structure be less than 50 percent of the assessed
value of the structure, it may be reconstructed and used as before, provided it
be done within six months of such happening and be built of like or similar
materials.
3.   Nonconforming Structures. Where a structure exists at the effective date
of adoption or amendment of the ordinance codified in this title that could not
be built under the terms of this title by reason of restrictions on area, lot
coverage, height, yards, or other characteristics of the structure or its
location on the lot, such structure may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which increases
its nonconformity.
   B.   Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of 50
percent of the assessed value of the structure, it shall not be reconstructed
except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
172.04   REPAIR, MAINTENANCE, AND REMODELING OF NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
1.   On any nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a non-
conforming use, work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive months on
ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of non-bearing walls, fixtures,
wiring, or plumbing, to an extent not exceeding 25 percent of the current
assessed value of the structure, of the nonconforming structure or
nonconforming portion of the structure as the case may be, provided that the
cubic content existing when it became nonconforming shall not be increased.
2.   If a nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a non-
conforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to lack of repairs and
maintenance and is declared by any duly authorized official to be unsafe or
unlawful by reason of physical condition, it shall not thereafter be restored,
repaired, or rebuilt except in conformity with the regulations of the district
in which it is located.
172.05   RECOGNITION OF NONCONFORMANCES.
1.   Unauthorized Nonconformances. Any use of land or structure which was not
an authorized nonconformity under any previous zoning ordinance or similar
regulations shall not be authorized to continue its nonconforming status
pursuant to this title.
2.   Nonconforming Uses and Conditional Use Permits. A lawful pre-existing use
that would require a conditional use permit in its zoning district shall be
presumed to have the appropriate permit and shall be considered a conforming
use. The use shall be subject to the regulations governing lapses or revocation
of permits, set forth in Chapter 165.
CHAPTER 175
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
 
175.01 General Provisions           175.06 Variances
175.02 Application of Regulations   175.07 Amendments
175.03 Plat Review and Submittal    175.08 Platting Requirements for Parcel
Requirements                        Splits and Property Line Adjustments
175.04 Subdivision Design Standards 175.09 Guidelines for In-Fill Housing
175.05 Required Subdivision         175.10 Subdivision Authorized
Improvements
175.01   GENERAL PROVISIONS.
1.   This chapter may be known and may be cited and referred to as “Subdivision
Regulations” of the City. † 15
2.   Purposes and Objectives. The subdivision regulations are adapted to
preserve, protect, and promote public health, safety, peace, comfort,
convenience, prosperity, and general welfare. More specifically these
subdivision regulations are adopted in order to ensure that new development
resulting in land subdivision in the City shall conform to minimum development
practices and standards. Further, it is intended that such land subdivision
shall result in properly coordinated design and construction of lots, blocks,
streets, utilities, public facilities, and other community assets.
 
Notes
15 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Subdivision chapter adopted by Ordinance No. 576 on August 28,
   2006.
175.02   APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
1.   General. Any plat, hereinafter made, for each subdivision or each part
thereof lying within the jurisdiction of the City, shall be prepared, presented
for approval, and recorded as herein prescribed. The regulations contained
herein shall apply to the subdivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land into
three or more lots, tracts, or other division of land for the purpose of sale
or of building development, whether immediate or future, including the re-
subdivision or replatting of land or lots. Further, the regulations set forth
by this chapter shall be minimum regulations that shall apply uniformly
throughout the jurisdiction of this chapter except as hereinafter provided.
2.   Applicability.
   A.   Each separate principal use building within the City shall be situated
on a separate and single subdivided lot of record unless otherwise provided in
the chapter.
   B.   No subdivision of land shall be permitted within the City unless a plat
is approved in accordance with provisions of these regulations.
   C.   These regulations shall apply not only to subdivision as herein set
forth but shall also apply, insofar as payment of costs for improvement of
subdivisions is concerned, to those subdivisions, or parts thereof, already
platted and approved, which are undeveloped, wholly or partially.
   D.   These regulations shall not apply to subdivision of burial lots in
cemeteries.
   E.   Parcel splits and property line adjustments shall be reviewed and acted
upon as provided for in Section 170.10.
3.   Provisions of Ordinance Declared to be Minimum Requirements. In their
interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall be held to
be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the public health,
safety, morals, or general welfare. Whenever the provisions of this chapter
require or impose higher standards than are required in any other chapter, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern. Wherever standards are more
restrictive than are required by the provisions of this chapter the provisions
of such shall govern the more restrictive standards.
175.03   PLAT REVIEW AND SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
1.   Pre-Application Procedure.
   A.   Pre-Application Conference. Before filing a preliminary plat the
subdivider shall consult with the Planning and Zoning Commission or its staff
for advice regarding general requirements affecting the proposed development. A
sketch of the proposed subdivision drawn on the topographic survey map shall be
submitted. The subdivider shall also submit a location map showing the
relationship of the proposed subdivision to existing or platted streets and
arterials and existing community facilities.
   B.   Notification of Requirements. The Planning and Zoning Commission or its
staff shall inform the subdivider of the requirements pertaining to the
proposed subdivision as such requirements are established by these regulations.
   C.   Waiver of Fees. The pre-application procedure does not require formal
application, fee, or filing of plat with the City.
2.   Procedure for Conditional Approval of Preliminary Plat.
   A.   The subdivider shall submit to the Building Official five copies of the
preliminary plat and supplemental material specified with written application
for conditional approval. Said complete submittal shall occur at least 21 days
prior to the regular meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission at which the
request will be heard.
   B.   Fees. A plat review fee of $25.00 per subdivision, plus $1.50 per each
lot shall accompany the application for conditional approval.
   C.   Scale and Preliminary Plat Contents. The preliminary plat shall contain
a small-scale key or vicinity map adequately covering the area of the
subdivision, showing the relation of the plat to major streets, parks, schools,
and surrounding major commercial, industrial developments and the boundary of
the drainage area affecting the plat. Preliminary plats shall be a scale of one
inch to 50 feet provided that if the resulting drawing should exceed 36 inches
in the shortest dimension, a scale of one inch to 100 feet is to be used and
shall be prepared with the following information:
      (1)   Name, location, acreage, owner (name and address), and designer of
the subdivision.
      (2)   Current zoning.
      (3)   Date, north point, and graphic scale.
      (4)   Location of existing property lines, streets, utilities (with size
of lines), and other underground installations and easements.
      (5)   Names of adjoining properties or subdivisions.
      (6)   Proposed utility system (type, capacity, and the location of major
transmission lines and treatment plants).
      (7)   Location and width, other dimensions and names of the proposed
streets, utility easements, and other open spaces or reserve areas.
      (8)   Dimensions, blocks, lot lines, and building setbacks; except that
in “industrial” type subdivisions, lot lines may be excluded.
      (9)   Location of proposed culverts, retention ponds, and other drainage
provisions.
      (10)   Contours at intervals of not more than five feet.
      (11)   Proposed improvements and grading concepts.
      (12)   Location of existing buildings.
      (13)   Location of existing trees with trunks at least six inches in
diameter, measured two feet above the ground level. Clumps of numerous trees
may be identified as a tree group without precisely locating each tree.
      (14)   Proposed easements, dedications, and reservations of land required
shall be provided.
      (15)   Lot and block numbers in numerical order.
   D.   Notification of Improvements Schedule. The subdivider shall indicate by
a letter when improvements as required will be provided. Any proposed
restrictive covenants for the land involved shall accompany the letter.
   E.   Notification of School Board. At least 10 days prior to the Planning
and Zoning Commission meeting at which the preliminary plat is to be considered
for approval, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall submit a copy of the
proposal to the school board of each school district which the proposed
development affects, and shall notify the school board of the meeting date.
Copies of the plat may be submitted to any other agency that may be affected.
   F.   Planning and Zoning Commission Approval or Rejection. After review of
the preliminary plat and negotiations with the subdivider, the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall reject or conditionally approve the preliminary plat
within 40 days after the official meeting at which the plat was considered.
   G.   Recording of Action by Planning and Zoning Commission. The action of
the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be noted on three copies of the
preliminary plat, referenced and attached to any conditions determined. One
copy shall be returned to the subdivider, one copy relayed to the Council, and
one copy retained by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   H.   Approval is Conditional. The Mayor and Council, upon receiving the
Planning and Zoning Commission’s recommendation, or after 30 days or any
extension thereof shall have passed, shall by resolution grant approval to or
reject the preliminary plat. Approval of a preliminary plat shall not
constitute approval of the final plat. Rather, it shall be deemed an expression
of approval or conditional approval of the submitted plat as a guide for the
preparation of the final plat, which will be subject to further consideration
by the Planning and Zoning Commission and Council. Any conditional approval of
the preliminary plat shall be effective for a period of one year unless an
extension is granted by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
3.   Procedure for Approval of Final Plat.
   A.   Plat Submission Requirements. Final plats shall be submitted to the
Building Official within one year of approval of the preliminary plat unless an
extension is granted by the Planning and Zoning Commission. The final plat
shall conform to the preliminary plat as approved and to the requirements of
all applicable ordinances and State laws; and, if desired by the subdivider, it
may constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plat which they
propose to record and develop at the time; provided, however, that such portion
conforms to all requirements of these regulations. Submittal of any portion of
the approved area shall be interpreted as satisfying the one-year submission
requirement. Application for approval of the final plat shall be submitted to
the Planning and Zoning Commission at least 21 days prior to the meeting at
which it is to be considered.
   B.   Fees. No fees are required for final plat submission.
   C.   Scale and Final Plat Contents. The original and five copies of the
final plat and other exhibits required for approval shall be submitted. The
final plat shall be a permanent copy of a photographic print (copy) made on a
stable plastic film not to exceed 18 inches by 24 inches or less than eight-
and one-half inches by11 inches. The scale shall be 50 feet to one inch
provided the drawing does not exceed 18 inches by 24 inches in size and 100
feet equals one inch when the 50 feet equals one inch scale exceeds the 18 inch
by 24-inch size. Written authorization is required from the Council for the use
of different scales than those provided herein. The final plat shall show the
following:
      (1)   Date, title, name, and location of subdivision.
      (2)   Streets and street names, setback lines, block numbers, lot
numbers, etc; except that in “industrial” type subdivisions, lot designation
may be excluded.
      (3)   Graphic scale and true north point on every street.
      (4)   Location, type, material, and size of all monuments and markers.
      (5)   Dimensions, angles and bearings, and complete legal description of
the property.
      (6)   Sufficient engineering data to reproduce any line on the ground.
      (7)   Names of adjoining properties and subdivisions.
      (8)   Location, dimensions, and purpose of any easements for which usage
and maintenance has been approved by the Council prior to recording the plat.
      (9)   Dimensions and purpose for which sites are dedicated or reserved
for public, semipublic, or community use, and the transfer of ownership of the
same.
      (10)   Certificate signed by a registered engineer or land surveyor,
which contains the legal description of the land included in the plat and all
necessary explanations of dimensions and references to monument to supplement
the figures on the plat itself. Said certificates shall state that a ground
survey has been made and that monuments have been placed as shown on the plat.
      (11)   Notarized certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties
having any titled interest in or lien upon the land subdivided, consenting to
the plat including dedication to the public for public use of all streets,
alleys and public ways and dedication of parks or other public grounds or as is
thereon dedicated to charitable, religious, or educational purposes, if any and
granting easements.
      (12)   Certificate for the approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission
to be signed by the chairperson.
      (13)   Certificate for the approval of the Council to be signed by the
Mayor and attested by the Clerk.
      (14)   Existing streets and roads and public or community facilities, if
any, on adjoining property.
      (15)   Minimum unadjusted acceptable error of closure is 1:10,000 for
subdivision boundaries and 1:5,000 for individual lots.
      (16)   Distances shown in feet to the nearest one-hundredth of a foot
based on horizontal distances.
      (17)   Bearings and angles recorded at least to the nearest minute of
arc.
      (18)   Curve data shall be stated in terms of the radius, central angle,
and tangent, or length of curve may be shown by reference to center line for
streets of uniform width and by cord bearing and distance for lots fronting on
a curve.
      (19)   Boundary lines identified by a direct bearing or angle or an angle
between the boundary line and an intersecting line having a shown bearing
except when the boundary line has an irregular or constantly changing course.
      (20)   Identify irregular boundaries of lots or subdivisions by enclosing
major portion of lot or subdivision in a meander line data with distances as
accurately as possible or as “more or less” along all lines extending beyond
the enclosure to the irregular boundary. Clearly indicate the true boundary on
the map.
      (21)   All interior excepted parcels shall be clearly indicated and
labeled “Not a Part of This Plat.”
      (22)   Bounds of every lot, block, street, easement, or other areas shown
on plat including boundaries of the subdivided land.
      (23)   Index showing relationship between sheets and numbers of each
sheet and total number of sheets in each plat when more than one sheet is used.
      (24)   Resubdivisions or replats to contain controlling lines of earlier
plat. Label resubdivision or replat following name of subdivision wherever name
appears on plat.
      (25)   Reserved land of sufficient size and shape to be of practical use
or service as determined by the Council.
   D.   Supplementary Data Requirements. The final plat shall be accompanied
by:
      (1)   Detailed construction plans of all required public improvements,
said plans to be approved by the engineer.
      (2)   A certificate by the engineer certifying that the subdivider has
complied with all provisions of Section 175.05(10); or, certifying that all
required improvements have been installed in accordance with the approval of
the preliminary plat by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (3)   Protective covenants in form for recording.
   E.   Planning and Zoning Commission. The Planning and Zoning Commission
shall approve or reject the final plat and have prepared a recommendation to
the Council recommending approval or rejection within 30 days. All reasons for
recommending rejection shall be clearly stated. Notification of approval or
rejection by the Planning and Zoning Commission or the Council shall be given
to the subdivider within 30 days after submission of the final plat to the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
175.04   SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS.
1.   General Requirements. Land to be subdivided shall be of such character
that it can be used safely for building purposes without danger of health or
peril from fire, flood, erosion, or other menace. If, following adequate
investigation conducted by all public agencies concerned, it is determined that
land to be subdivided cannot be used without endangering the health, safety,
welfare, or prosperity of the community, or would necessitate an excessive
expenditure of public financial resources for sewage, water facilities, other
public facilities, and streets, then the subdivision plat shall not be approved
unless the subdivider formulates adequate methods for meeting such problems.
All subdivision designs shall conform to standards of the Comprehensive
Development Plan and to the City’s Unified Land Development Code. All required
improvements shall be constructed or installed to conform to the provisions of
this chapter and City specifications.
2.   Streets. The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of
all streets shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan and shall be considered in
their relation to existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions, to
public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relation to the
proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets.
   A,   Street Extensions. The street layout of the proposed subdivision shall
provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of streets and alleys
already existing in areas being subdivided. Where, at the determination of the
Planning and Zoning Commission it is desirable to provide street access to
adjoining properties, proposed streets shall be extended by dedication to the
boundaries of such properties. Where the Planning and Zoning Commission deems
it necessary, such dead-end streets shall be provided with a cul-de-sac having
a radius of at least 50 feet. The street system for the proposed subdivision
shall provide for extending existing streets at the same or greater width, but
in no case shall a street extension be of less width than the minimum width
required in these regulations for a street in its category.
   B.   Dedication of Right-of-Way for New Streets. The dedication of right-of-
way for new streets measured from lot line to lot line shall be as shown on the
Comprehensive Plan, or, if not shown thereon, shall meet the right-of-way
requirements as provided in Table A of these regulations. All streets
classified as arterial streets by the Comprehensive Plan shall have all points
of access approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Marginal frontage
streets may be required by the Planning and Zoning Commission for subdivisions
fronting on arterial streets.
 
Table A: Minimum Street Standards
                                                             Min.      Min.
          Min.    Surface No. of  Min.    Shoulder Max.      Center    Spacing
          Right   Width   Traffic No. of  Width    Grade     Line      w.
          of Way  (feet)  Lanes   Parking (feet)   (percent) Radius    Arterial
          (feet)                  Lanes                      (degrees) Street
                                                                       (feet)
Arterial  100     44**    4       0       8        6         300
Street*
Collector 80      36**    2       0       6        7         300       1,320
Street*
Local     60      36**    2       2       6        8         200       1,320
Street
Cul-De-                                                                None
Sac and   50      28**    2       1       4        10        100       Allowed
Loop
* Minimum standards are not applicable to roads and streets, which are,
included on the Federal-Aid Primary of Federal-Aid Secondary system or on the
County or municipal One- and Six-Year Road and Steet Plan.
** Add greater width if parking or turning lanes are to be provided: Minimum
Turning Lane = 10 feet
Minimum per Parking or Pickup Lane = Eight feet
 
   C.   Dedication of Right-of-Way for Existing Streets. Subdivisions platted
along existing streets shall dedicate additional rights-of-way if necessary to
meet the minimum street width requirements set forth in these regulations. The
entire minimum right-of-way width shall be dedicated where subdivision is on
both sides of an existing street. When the subdivision is located on only one
side of an existing street, one-half of only one side of an existing street,
one-half of the required right-of-way width, measured from the center line of
the existing roadway, shall be dedicated. Dedication of one-half of the right-
of-way for proposed new streets along the boundaries of land proposed for
subdivision shall be prohibited.
   D.   Intersections. Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at an
angle of 90 degrees, and no intersection shall be at an angle of less than 60
degrees. Street curb intersections shall be rounded by radii of at least 20
feet. When the smallest angle of street intersection is less than 75 degrees,
the Planning and Zoning Commission may require curb radii of greater length.
Whenever necessary to permit the construction of a curb having a street corner
to less than normal width, the property line at such street corner shall be
rounded or otherwise set back sufficiently to permit such curb construction. No
lot or other parcel of land which abuts on and has access to either a collector
or a minor street shall have a service drive, curb cut, or other means of
access to an arterial street within 75 feet of the right-of-way of any street
which intersects such arterial street on the side on which such lot or parcel
is located.
   E.   Horizontal and Vertical Street Curves. A tangent at least 100 feet long
shall be introduced between reverse curves on arterial and collector streets.
Where there is a deflection angle of more than 10 degrees in the alignment of a
street, a curve with a radius adequate to ensure safe sight distance shall be
made. The minimum radii of curves provided in Table A in Paragraph B shall be
required. Every change in grade shall be connected by a vertical curve
constructed so as to afford a minimum sight distance of 200 feet, said sight
distance being measured from a driver’s eyes, which are assumed to be four and
one-half feet above the pavement surface, to an object four inches high on the
pavement. Profiles of all streets showing natural or finished grades, drawn to
an approved scale, may be required by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   F.   Street Grades and Elevations. All streets shall be designed so as to
provide for the discharge of surface water from the pavement and from the
right-of-way by grading and drainage. For adequate drainage, the minimum street
grade shall be not less than one-half of one percent. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall not approve streets that will be subject to inundation or
flooding. All streets must be located at elevations that will make them flood-
free in order that portions of the subdivisions will not be isolated by floods.
Where flood conditions exist, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall require
profiles or elevations of streets in order to determine the advisability of
permitting the proposed subdivision activity. Fill may be used in areas subject
to flooding in order to provide flood-free streets if such fill does not
increase flood heights. Drainage openings shall be designed so as not to
restrict the flow of water and thereby increase flood heights. Street grades
shall conform to the minimum requirements provided in Table A in Paragraph B of
these regulations.
   G.   Frontage Access Streets. Where a subdivision abuts or contains an
existing or proposed arterial street, the Planning and Zoning Commission may
require access streets, lots with screen planting contained in a non-access
reservation along the rear property line, deep lots with rear service alleys,
or such other treatment as may be necessary for adequate protection of
residential properties and to afford separation of through and local traffic.
Where the proposed subdivision abuts upon or contains an existing or proposed
arterial street or highway on which traffic volumes and vehicular speeds
warrant special safety considerations, the Planning and Zoning Commission may
require that marginal access streets be provided in order that no lots front on
such existing or proposed arterial street or highway. Where a subdivision
borders on or contains a railroad right-of-way or limited access highway right-
of-way, the Planning and Zoning Commission may require a street approximately
parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way, at a distance suitable for
the appropriate use of the intervening land, as for park purposes in
residential districts, or for commercial or industrial purposes in appropriate
districts. Such distances shall also be determined with due regard for the
requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
   H.   Cul-de-Sacs. Minor terminal or dead-end streets or courts which are
designed so as to have one end permanently closed shall not be longer than 600
feet and shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround having a radius
at the outside of the pavement of at least 25 feet and a radius at the outside
of the right-of-way of at least 40 feet.
   I.   Street Names. Proposed streets that are in alignment with other already
existing and named streets shall bear the names of such existing streets. The
name of a proposed street that is not in alignment with an existing street
shall not duplicate the name of any existing street, irrespective of the use of
the suffix street, avenue, boulevard, drive, place, court, lane, road, pike,
highway, parkway, or similar suffix. Whenever a street alignment changes
direction more than 45 degrees without a return to the original alignment
within a distance of 500 feet, then the name of the street shall be changed at
the point of curvature. To avoid duplication and confusion, the proposed names
of all streets shall be approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission prior to
such names being assigned or used.
   J.   Private Streets and Reserve Strips. There shall not be private streets
platted within a subdivision except in gated communities. There shall be no
reserve strips in a subdivision except where their control is definitely vested
in the City or County under conditions approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission as authorized in these regulations.
3.   Blocks.
   A.   General. The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be determined
with due regard to the provision of adequate building sites suitable to the
special needs of the type of use contemplated; zoning requirements as to lot
sizes and dimensions; needs for convenient access, circulations, control and
safety of street traffic; and limitations and opportunities of topography.
   B.    Block lengths shall not exceed 1,320 feet or be less than 600 feet,
except as the Planning and Zoning Commission considers necessary to secure
efficient use of land or desired features of street layout.
   C.   Blocks shall be wide enough to allow two tiers of lots of minimum
depth, provided, that where this would require lots of front on an arterial
street or highway or where topographical conditions or the size of the property
prevent two tiers of lots, the Planning and Zoning Commission may approve a
single tier of lots of minimum depth.
4.   Lots. The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientation, and the minimum
building setback lines shall be appropriate for the location of the subdivision
and for the type of development and use contemplated.
   A.   Lot dimensions shall conform to the requirements of the Unified Land
Use Regulations (Chapters 165 to 172).
   B.   Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width to permit
appropriate building setback from and orientation to both streets.
   C.   The subdividing of the land shall be such as to provide, by means of a
public street, each lot with satisfactory access to an existing public street.
   D.   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to
street lines.
5.   Flood Hazards. Land subject to flooding and land deemed to be
topographically unsuitable for residential development shall not be platted for
residential use or for any other use which may increase the danger to health,
life or property or aggravated erosion or flood hazards. Such land within the
subdivision shall be set aside on the plat for such uses as will not be
endangered by periodic or occasional inundation contrary to the public welfare.
To ensure that lots will be located only where they will provide flood-free
building sites, the Planning and Zoning Commission may require the subdivider
to provide elevation and flood profiles sufficient to demonstrate that the
building sites will be completely free from the danger of flooding. If a stream
flows through or adjacent to the proposed subdivision, the plat plan shall
provide for easement of right-of-way along the stream for a floodway. For the
smaller streams, the plan shall also provide for channel improvement to enable
them to carry all reasonable floods within banks. The floor elevations of
structures intended for human habitation shall be high enough to be above the
level of 100-year frequency flood. The floodway easement shall be wide enough
to provide for future enlargement of the stream channel as adjacent areas
become more highly developed and run-off rates are increased. Refer to Section
166.45 for additional information.
6.   Off-Street Loading and Parking Facilities. All lots or parcels platted
shall provide sufficient space for off-street loading and parking facilities to
meet the requirements of the zoning district within said lot or parcel is
platted. Refer to Chapter 170.
7.   Easements. Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines
shall be provided for utilities where necessary and shall be at least 16 feet
wide. Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway, channel,
or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage right-of-
way conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourse, and such
further width or construction, or both, as will be adequate for the purpose.
Parallel streets or parkways may be required in connection therewith.
8.   Community Assets. In all subdivisions, due regard shall be shown for
natural features such as large trees; unusual rock formations, and water
courses; for sites which have historical significance; and for similar assets
which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and value to the subdivision and
to the area. The Planning and Zoning Commission may prepare a list of all such
features within its area of planning jurisdiction that it deems worthy of
preservation.
9.   Conformance with Other Regulations. No final plat of land within the area
of force and effect of existing zoning regulations will be approved unless it
conforms with such regulations. Whenever there is a variance between the
minimum standards set forth in these regulations and those contained in the
building code, or other official regulations, the highest standard shall apply.
10.   Reservation and Dedication of Public Land and Open Space.
   A.   Before final plat approval is given, the developer may be required to
reserve sites for parks, playgrounds, open spaces and schools and other public
land as determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission to be sufficient and
in compliance with the Comprehensive Plan. Reservation of land for public
acquisition and use shall be for a period not to exceed three years from the
date the plat is officially approved and recorded unless otherwise provided in
these regulations.
      (1)   Where a park, playground, school, or other site for public use
shown on the Comprehensive Plan is located in whole or in part in the
applicant’s subdivision, the City may require the acquisition or accept the
dedication or reservation of such area within the subdivision.
      (2)   Where deemed essential by the Planning and Zoning Commission upon
consideration of the type of development proposed in the subdivision, and
especially in large-scale developments not anticipated in the Comprehensive
Plan, the City may request the dedication or reservation of such other areas or
sites of a character, extent or location suitable to the needs created by such
development for school, parks, and other neighborhood facilities.
      (3)   Where a tract of land being subdivided includes land proposed to be
used for parks under the duly adopted Comprehensive Plan of the City, the
subdivider shall indicate the location of such areas on the subdivision plat.
      (4)   Where a tract of land being subdivided includes, land proposed to
be used for a future school site, under the adopted Comprehensive Plan, the
subdivider shall indicate the general location of such areas on the preliminary
plat. School sites are to be reserved for two years giving the community School
District the right to purchase the land at a negotiated value or at a value
determined in the same manner as required by the Code of Iowa for proceedings
under the power of eminent domain, plus one-half the cost of grading,
utilities, and paving, including curbs, of any streets contiguous to the site,
plus other approved special assessments. Should the school site not be
purchased within the time limit specified above, the subdivider may then sell
said site for an alternate purpose as shown on the approved subdivision plat.
   B.   Before final plat approval is given to the subdivider, they shall be
required to dedicate to public use all streets, alleys, buffer strips and parks
as may be required by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Acceptance of these
dedicated lands shall be recorded in the minutes of the Council and on the
subdivision plat.
11.   Large Tracts or Parcels. When land is subdivided into larger parcels than
ordinary building lots, such parcels shall be arranged so as to allow for the
opening of future streets and logical resubdivision.
175.05   REQUIRED SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS.
1.   General Requirements. The subdivider shall design, and construct
improvements not less than the standards outlined in these regulations. The
work shall be done under City supervision and inspection and shall be completed
within the time fixed or agreed upon by the Engineer or the Planning and Zoning
Commission. The minimum requirements for materials shall be in accordance with
the standards currently in effect in the City or as approved by the Engineer or
the Planning and Zoning Commission. Standards applicable to health and
sanitation as required by the Iowa Department of Environmental Quality and the
Iowa Department of Health shall be the minimum standards required. Schedules of
improvements shall be prepared by the subdivider. The schedules shall contain
standards, and classes of construction that are consistent within the zoning
districts as identified in the Zoning Regulations (Chapters 165 to 172) of the
City. The subdivider shall furnish copies of pertinent schedules and
certificates of compliance as required by the Engineer or the Planning and
Zoning Commission. All inspection costs and costs for required tests shall be
paid by the subdivider.
2.   Monuments, Markers, and Pins. Permanent concrete monuments shall be
accurately set and established as follows:
   A.   The intersections of all outside boundary lines of the subdivision;
   B.   At the intersections of those boundary lines with all street lines;
   C.   At the beginning and end of all curves;
   D.   At points on curves where the radius or direction changes; and
   E.   At such other points as are necessary to establish definitely all lines
of the plat, including all lot corners. Stone or concrete monuments shall be at
least 36 inches long and at least six inches in diameter, and shall be provided
with an appropriate center point. Solid iron pins or iron pipe monuments at
least one inch in diameter and at least 30 inches long may be used at all other
points.
3.   Streets.
   A.   Grading Specifications. All streets, roads, and alleys shall be graded
to their full widths by the subdivider so that street pavements and sidewalks
can be constructed on the same level plane. Deviation from this standard due to
special topographical conditions will be allowed only with the approval of the
Council. Before grading is started, the entire right-of-way area shall be first
cleared of all tree stumps, roots, brush and other objectionable materials and
of all trees not intended for preservation. The subgrade shall be properly
shaped, rolled and uniformly compacted to conform with the accepted cross-
section and grades. In cuts, all tree stumps, boulders, organic material, soft
clay, spongy material and other objectionable materials shall be removed to a
depth of at least two feet below the graded surface. Rock, when encountered,
shall be scarified to a depth of at least 12 inches below the graded surface.
In fills, all tree stumps, boulders, organic material, soft clay, spongy
material and other objectionable material shall be removed to a depth of at
least two feet below the natural ground surface. This objectionable matter, as
well as similar matter from cuts, shall be removed from the right-of-way area
and disposed of in such a manner that it will not become incorporated in fills
or hinder proper operation of the drainage system.
   B.   Minimum Pavement Widths. Pavement widths shall be measured between
curbs. Minimum pavement or surface widths shall be provided as indicated in
Table A in Paragraph B of Subsection 2 of Section 175.04.
   C.   Street Surfacing. Street surfacing shall be provided in conformance
with Table B of these regulations or as determined by the Engineer or Planning
and Zoning Commission. Requirements for paving including curb and gutter may be
waived at the request of the subdivider in the case of a subdivision wherein
all of the lots in the subdivision have a minimum frontage width of 300 feet or
more, subject to the approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission or the
Engineer.
 
Table B Required Subdivision Improvements
            Curb             Street                           Central Central Central
Subdivision and    Sidewalks Surface    Storm    Streetlights Lights  Water   Sewage
            Gutter           Type       Drainage              System  System  Disposal
                             Minimum                                          System.
                             Bituminous
            Yes    Yes       or         Yes      Yes          Yes     Yes     Yes
                             Concrete
 
   D.   Curb and Gutter. Curb and gutter shall, as a minimum, be provided in
conformance with Table B of these regulations. In areas of notable flash
flooding or heavy rain run­off, curbs shall be required on all streets designed
for areas where the existing or anticipated residential density of the areas
surrounding the proposed subdivision equals or exceeds three dwelling units per
net acre. In commercial developments, or where other similar intensive urban
uses. Where curbs exist on abutting properties, their extension shall be
required throughout the proposed subdivision. All curb and gutter shall be
constructed in conformance with the minimum standards of the City and as
approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission or the Engineer.
   E.   Street Name Signs. Street name signs, of a type in use throughout the
City shall be erected by the subdivider at all intersections.
4.   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be provided in conformance with Chapter 136 and
Table B as shown in Paragraph C of Subsection 3 of this section and shall be
constructed of Portland cement concrete or other acceptable material as
approved by the Engineer or Planning and Zoning Commission. Sidewalk thickness
shall be not less than four inches.
5.   Driveways. Driveways shall have a maximum grade of 10 percent. Driveways
and curb cuts shall be located not less than three feet from the side lot line.
Curb cuts for straight curbs and the flare for rolled curbs shall be three feet
wider than the driveway pavement on each side. Curb cuts shall be prohibited
within 50 feet of an intersecting corner or as specified in Section 175.04(2)
(D).
6.   Street and Walkway Lighting. The subdivider shall install streetlights in
accordance with Table B of these regulations and as approved by the Engineer or
the Planning and Zoning Commission. Such lights shall be located at each
entrance (streets and walkways) to the subdivision. In addition, whenever the
distance between two adjacent street (walkway) lights would exceed 300 feet,
then additional streetlights shall be installed in such a manner that proper
light intensity shall be provided and maintained. New subdivision street
(walkway) lighting shall be installed with all associated wiring underground.
7.   Street Trees. Trees should be provided by the subdivider in all
subdivisions where curbs, gutters, and sidewalks are required in accordance
with standards and specifications of the Engineer. The trees shall be species
that are resistant to damage and disease and which do not cause interference
with underground utilities, street lighting, or visibility at street
intersections. Existing trees should be retained in new subdivisions wherever
possible.
8.   Utility and Drainage Facilities.
   A.   General. Sanitary sewer, stormsewer, water distribution, electrical,
gas, telephone, and communications, cable, and all other utility lines shall be
installed in rear lot easements wherever practical. Where it is impractical to
install such utility lines in rear lot easements, they shall be installed
within the unpaved portions of the street right-of-way except for sanitary and
stormsewer lines which may be installed in the paved portion of the street
right-of-way if it is impossible to install them in the unpaved portion.
      (1)   When it is impossible to install sanitary and stormsewer lines in
the unpaved portion of the street right-of-way all such utility lines,
including service connections shall be completely installed, and inspected and
approved by the Building Official, following the grading of the street and
prior to the application of any pavement base.
      (2)   Where sanitary and stormsewer lines are to be installed in the
unpaved portion of the street right-of-way, the installation of service
connections may be delayed, provided, that at such time as these service
connections are installed, they shall be installed without breaking or
weakening the existing pavement. Where rock is known to exist beneath the
pavement area at such depth as to interfere with the installation of service
connections, the complete installation of service connections shall be required
prior to the application of any pavement base.
   B.   Water Supply Improvements. Where a public water supply is reasonably
accessible or required because of pollution problems in the determination of
the Planning and Zoning Commission, the subdivision shall be provided with a
complete water distribution system, including a connection for each lot and
appropriately spaced fire hydrants. Public water distribution and public well
systems shall meet the requirements of the City and the Iowa Department of
Natural Resources. Where public water supply is not available or not required,
the subdivider shall supply acceptable evidence of the availability of water.
The subdivider may be required to make one or more test wells in the area to be
platted if such evidence is deemed not acceptable. Copies of well logs that are
obtained shall include the name and address of the well driller and shall be
submitted with the plat to the Planning and Zoning Commission. Where public
water supply is not available or otherwise not provided in the subdivision, the
minimum lot size shall conform to the minimum lot size specified in the Zoning
Regulations, provided, that in no case shall said minimum lot be less than one-
half acre in area and a lot width of not less than 140 feet.
   C.   Sanitary Sewer Improvements. Where an adequate public sanitary sewer
system is reasonably accessible, in the determination of the Planning and
Zoning Commission, public sanitary sewers shall be installed to adequately
serve all lots, including lateral connections to the public system. Public
sewer system extensions shall meet the requirements of the City and the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources and the Iowa Department of Health. Combinations
of sanitary sewers and storm sewers shall be prohibited.
   D.   Drainage Improvements. The subdivider shall construct all necessary
facilities including underground pipe, inlets, or catch basins, as determined
by the Engineer or Planning and Zoning Commission, to provide for the adequate
disposal of subsurface and surface water and maintenance of natural drainage
courses. Paved gutters will be required if velocities of flow are greater than
those specified or if it is otherwise likely that destructive erosion will
result. Drainage ditches shall not be permitted to discharge into any sanitary
sewer facilities.
   E.   Stormsewers and Stormwater Drainage. Where an adequate public
stormsewer system is available at the plat boundary, the subdivider shall
construct a stormsewer system and connect with such stormsewer line. If such a
stormsewer system is not accessible, natural drainage channels with easements
of adequate width shall be provided, as determined by the Engineer and approved
by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Paved gutters or stormsewers shall be
required if velocities of flow in an open ditch are greater than four feet per
second in soil ditches or six feet per second in turf gutters or cause
destructive erosion. Storm drainage, including drain tile around basements,
shall not be permitted to discharge into any sanitary sewer facility, but shall
connect to an adequate drainage outlet.
   F.   Culverts and Bridges. Where natural drainage channels intersect any
street right-of-way, it shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to have
satisfactory bridges or culverts constructed. Where culverts are required,
minimum requirements shall be observed as follows:
      (1)   All culverts shall extend across the entire right-of-way width of
the proposed street. The cover over the culvert and its capacity shall be
determined by the Engineer or Planning and Zoning Commission. The minimum
diameter of a culvert pipe shall be 24 inches. Depending on existing drainage
conditions, head walls may be required.
      (2)   Driveway culverts shall have a minimum length of 20 feet, and a
minimum diameter of 24 inches. The driveway culverts shall be laid so as to
maintain the flow lines of the ditch or gutter. Headwalls may be required.
   G.   Erosion Control. The subdivider shall be required to provide for the
control of erosion of areas of the subdivision which are disturbed by grading
operations, by constructing temporary terraces on slopes, temporary silting
basins, sod swales and spillways, and whatever may be necessary to prevent
erosion and damage to adjacent properties from surface drainage as approved by
the Engineer or the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   H.   Fire Protection. Fire hydrants shall be provided by the subdivider in
all subdivisions with public water supplies. The hydrants should be located
between property lines and curbs with all outlets facing or parallel to the
street. Hydrants shall be placed at the corners of all blocks and at mid-block
for blocks exceeding 800 feet in length. Hydrants shall also be required at the
entrance and end of all cul-de-sacs exceeding 400 feet in length. The type of
hydrant and control valves and the location of the hydrant shall be approved by
the Fire Chief. The minimum size of any water line serving any hydrant shall
not be less than six inches in diameter and should be circulating water lines.
The size and location of water lines should be approved by the Engineer or the
Fire Chief.
   I.   Electric, Gas, and Telephone Improvements.
      (1)   Electric service and telephone service shall be provided within
each subdivision. Gas service may be required where reasonably accessible.
Whenever such facilities are reasonably accessible and available, they may be
required to be installed within the area prior to the approval of the final
plat. Telephone, electric, and street lighting wires, conduits and cables shall
be constructed underground.
      (2)   Whenever a sanitary sewer line and electric or telephone line are
each placed underground in the same utility easement, the following provisions
shall be applicable:
         a.   The total easement width shall be not less than 16 feet, and
         b.   The sanitary sewer line shall be installed within three feet of
the easement, and the electric or telephone lines shall be installed within
three feet of the easement.
9.   Shared Improvement Costs.
   A.   Oversize and Off-Site Improvements. The utilities, pavements, and other
land improvements required for the proposed subdivision shall be designed of
oversize improvements or with extensions provided to serve nearby land which is
an integral part of the neighborhood service or drainage area as determined by
the Planning and Zoning Commission or Engineer.
   B.   Cost of Oversize Improvements. Minimum street pavement widths shall
conform to the standards given in Table A, inclusive. Where pavement widths
greater than those specified in Table A are deemed necessary by the Planning
and Zoning Commission or the Engineer and approved by the Council the City
shall bear the extra cost of providing a greater than the minimum pavement
width required by these regulations. The subdivider shall be required to pay
for only that part of the construction costs for the arterial streets, trunk
sewers, or water lines which are serving the proposed subdivision as determined
by the Planning and Zoning Commission or the Engineer. The City shall pay the
difference between the cost of required improvements for the proposed
subdivision and improvements required to service the surrounding areas.
   C.   Extensions to Boundaries. The subdivider may be required to extend the
necessary improvements to the boundary of the proposed subdivision to serve
adjoining unsubdivided land, as determined by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   D.   Off-Site Extensions. If streets or utilities are not available at the
boundary of a proposed subdivision and if the Planning and Zoning Commission
finds the extensions across undeveloped areas would not be warranted as a
special assessment to the intervening properties or as a municipal expense
until some future time, the subdivider may be required, prior to approval of
the final plat, to obtain necessary easements or rights-of-way and construction
and pay for such extensions. Such improvements shall be available for
connections by developers of adjoining land.
10.   Subdivision Improvement Guarantees. Prior to final plat approval, the
subdivider shall complete in a manner satisfactory to the Planning and Zoning
Commission or the Engineer, all improvements required in these regulations
specified in the final subdivision plat, and as approved by the Planning and
Zoning Commission and shall dedicate same to the City in accordance with
Section 175.05(10)(G). Final plat approval shall not be granted until the
dedication of said improvements has been accepted by the City. In lieu of
requiring the completion of all improvements prior to final plat approval, the
City may, at its discretion, enter into a contract with the subdivider whereby
the subdivider shall guarantee to complete all improvements required by this
chapter or otherwise specified by the Planning and Zoning Commission, in a
manner satisfactory to the Planning and Zoning Commission. To secure this
contract, the subdivider shall provide, subject to the approval of the Planning
and Zoning Commission, one of the guarantees provided in Section 175.05(10)(A-
D).
   A.   Surety Performance Bond. The subdivider shall obtain a security bond
from a surety bonding company authorized to do business in the State. The bond
shall be payable to the City and shall be in an amount to cover the entire
cost, as estimated by the subdivider and approved by the Engineer or the
Planning and Zoning Commission, of installing all contracted improvements. The
duration of the bond shall be until such time as the improvements are accepted
by the City in accordance with Section 175.05(10)(G).
   B.   Escrow Account. The subdivider shall deposit cash, or other instrument
readily convertible into cash at face value, either with the City or in escrow
with a bank. The use of any instrument other than cash, and, in the case of an
escrow account, the bank with which the funds are to be deposited, shall be
subject to the approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission. The amount of
the deposit shall be at least equal to the cost, as estimated by the sub-
divider and approved by the Engineer or the Planning and Zoning Commission, of
installing all required improvements. In the case of an escrow account, the
subdivider shall file with the Planning and Zoning Commission an agreement
between the financial bank and themself guaranteeing the following:
      (1)   That the funds of said escrow account shall be held in trust until
released by the Planning and Zoning Commission and may not be used or pledged
by the subdivider as security in any other matter during that period;
      (2)   And that in the case of a failure on the part of the subdivider to
complete said improvements, then the bank shall immediately make the funds in
said account available to the City for use in the completion of those
improvements.
   C.   Sequential Approval of Subdivision Segments without Guarantee. Where a
subdivision is to be developed in several sections, the Planning and Zoning
Commission may, at its discretion, waive the use of a guarantee on the initial
sections, provided that such sections may not be larger than 25 lots, or 50
percent of the total number of lots in the subdivision, whichever is less. The
Planning and Zoning Commission shall grant final plat approval for each
succeeding section being contingent upon completion of all contracted
improvements in each preceding section, and acceptance of those improvements in
accordance with Section 175.05(10)(G). Completion of improvements in the final
section of the subdivision, which shall include at least 25 lots, or 50 percent
of the total number of lots in the subdivision, whichever is less, must be
guaranteed through the use of one of the other methods detailed under this
section.
   D.   Special Assessment. The City may, at its discretion, enter into an
agreement with the subdivider to pay the cost of the required improvements
through the use of a special assessment. The City shall make such arrangements
for actual construction and interim financing as it deems appropriate, provided
that construction of improvements in any section of the subdivision shall be
completed in a time period not longer than would be allowed if another form of
improvement guarantee were used.
   E.   Time Limits. Prior to the granting of final plat approval, the
subdivider and the Planning and Zoning Commission shall agree upon a deadline
for the completion of all required improvements, such deadline not to exceed
two years from the date of final plat approval. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall have the power to extend that deadline for one additional year
where the subdivider can present a substantial reason for doing so.
   F.   Failure to Complete Improvements. If any portion of the required
improvements shall fail to be accepted for dedication in compliance with
section 175.05(10)(G) within the allocated time period, either for reason of
incompletion or for reason of substandard construction, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall take one of the following actions:
      (1)   Where improvements have been guaranteed under Section 175.05(10)(A)
of this chapter preliminary plat approval shall be revoked.
      (2)   Where improvements have been guaranteed under Section 175.05(10)(B)
of this chapter, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall declare whatever
security has been pledged as guarantee to be forfeited. Where the Planning and
Zoning Commission is not already in possession of said guarantee, it shall
immediately take the actions necessary to obtain it. Upon receipt of these
securities, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall use them, or receipts from
their sale if that be necessary, to finance such improvements to the proper
specifications. Unused portions of these securities shall be returned to the
subdivider, bonding company, or crediting institution as is appropriate.
   G.   Inspection and Certification. The Engineer, or other knowledgeable
official as specified by the Planning and Zoning Commission, shall regularly
inspect for defects in the construction of required improvements. Upon
completion of these improvements, the Engineer, or other knowledgeable official
as specified by the Planning and Zoning Commission, shall file with the
Planning and Zoning Commission a statement either certifying that the
improvements have been completed in the specific manner or listing the defects
in those improvements. Upon completion of the improvements, the subdivider
shall file with the Planning and Zoning Commission a statement stipulating the
following:
      (1)   That all required improvements are complete;
      (2)   That these improvements are in compliance with the minimum
standards specified by the Planning and Zoning Commission for their
construction;
      (3)   That the subdivider knows of no defects from any cause, in those
improvements; and
      (4)   That these improvements are free and clear of any encumbrance or
lien.
If the Engineer, or other knowledgeable official as specified by the Planning
and Zoning Commission, has certified that the contracted improvements are
complete and free from defect, then upon receipt of the other statements and
agreements detailed above, the City may, at its discretion, accept the
dedication of any portion of the required improvements, provided that all
statements and agreements specified above have been received for that portion
of the improvements.
   H.   Reduction of Guarantees. In those cases where improvement guarantees
have been made under Section 175.05(10)(B), the amount of the guarantee may be
reduced upon acceptance, in compliance with Section 175.05(10)(G) of the
dedication of a portion of the required improvements.
   I.   Release of Guarantee. Upon acceptance in accordance with Section 175.05
(10)(G) of the dedication of the final portion of improvements, the City shall
authorize the release of the remaining portion of the improvement guarantee.
175.06   VARIANCES.
1.   Granting of Variances: Conditions. The Planning and Zoning Commission may
recommend and the Council may grant variances from the provisions of these
regulations but only after determining that:
   A.   There are unique circumstances or conditions affecting the property.
   B.   The variance is necessary for the reasonable and acceptable development
of the property in question.
   C.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to adjacent property.
2.   Recording of Plat. In no case shall the requirement of filing and
recording a plat for subdivision be waived.
3.   Planned Development. The Planning and Zoning Commission and the Council
may also grant reasonable variances to these regulations if the subdivider
concurrently submits an application for, and obtains approval of, a Planned
Development. The subdivider shall indicate where their plans vary from these
regulations and shall present sufficient evidence to support their request,
indicating why their request will not be detrimental to the public health,
safety, and welfare
175.07   AMENDMENTS.
Any provision of these regulations from time to time may be amended,
supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed by the governing body according to
law; provided, however, that such amendments, supplements, changes,
modifications or repealed provisions shall not become effective until after
study and report by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
175.08   PLATTING REQUIREMENTS FOR PARCEL SPLITS AND PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENTS.
1.   Exemption from Platting Requirements for Parcel Splits and Property Line
Adjustments. If the Building Official determines that a proposed subdivision
qualifies as a parcel split or property line adjustment, then the parcel split
or property line adjustment shall be exempt from formal platting procedures.
2.   Review Criteria.
   A.   A subdivision of land qualifies as a property line adjustment if the
following conditions exist:
      (1)   That the land to be subdivided has previously been platted;
      (2)   That the land can only be legally transferred to an adjoining
landowner;
      (3)   That the land proposed for subdivision is not of a size that could
be construed as a buildable lot; and
      (4)   That the subdivision does not create any nonconformities.
   B.   Due to the unique characteristics of each parcel split request, it
shall be up to the interpretation of the Building Official whether or not a
proposed parcel split serves the purpose and intent of this title and all other
applicable resolutions and ordinances adopted by the City.
3.   Procedures. Once it has been determined by the Building Official, after an
initial conference with the subdivider, that a proposed subdivision qualifies
as a parcel split or property line adjustment, the subdivider shall submit to
the Building Official an application, as provided by the department, for
acceptance or denial of the proposed parcel split or property line adjustment,
together with a receipt for the filing fee. If necessary, at the Building
Official’s discretion, a survey prepared by an Iowa registered land surveyor
attached to the application may be required.
4.   Parcel Split or Property Line Adjustment Approval.
   A.   The Building Official shall approve the parcel split if the same
conforms to all applicable ordinances and resolutions of the City and all
applicable laws, rules and regulations of the State and duly constituted
agencies thereof. Upon the Building Official’s written approval of a parcel
split, the subdivider shall then submit to the Building Official a survey
prepared by an Iowa registered land surveyor who shall be responsible for
preparing such survey in full conformance with the requirements of the Code of
Iowa.
   B.   The Building Official shall approve the property line adjustment if the
same conforms to all applicable ordinances and resolutions of the City and all
applicable laws, rules and regulations of the State and duly constituted
agencies thereof.
5.   Appeal. In the event that the Building Official does not approve a parcel
split or property line adjustment application, the subdivider has the right to
appeal the Building Official’s decision to the Planning and Zoning Commission
by filing a written appeal with the Building Official within 30 days of the
date of said denial. If the appeal is filed within the time prescribed, then
the Building Official shall set the appeal hearing before the Planning and
Zoning Commission for its consideration.
6.   Planning and Zoning Commission Action. If the Planning and Zoning
Commission reverses the decision of the Building Official, then they shall be
instructed by the Planning and Zoning Commission to approve said parcel split.
Whether the Planning and Zoning Commission affirms or reverses the Building
Official’s decision, such determination shall be appealable by either party to
the Council for a final determination, provided the written appeal is filed
within 10 days of the Planning and Zoning Commission’s decision.
7.   City Exemption From this Chapter. The City shall be exempt from the
requirements of this chapter.
8.   Recording Requirements. The Building Official or their designee shall
record the approved parcel split or property line adjustment with the County
Recorder within five working days after its approval. The Building Official
shall send the subdivider a copy of the recorded property line adjustment by
regular mail. The subdivider shall not convey, nor the County Auditor transfer,
either of the resulting two parcels of land until the parcel split or property
line adjustment is recorded.
175.09   GUIDELINES FOR IN-FILL HOUSING.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b168fe48573aeee5dd12e80dd0d5a2a53fb43456/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2393.png]
 
175.10   SUBDIVISION AUTHORIZED.
The City is authorized and empowered to plan, develop, construct, and sell lots
in a subdivision on a portion of the property described below and to engage
engineers and other necessary persons to prepare the necessary documents and
plats for said subdivision and to submit the subdivision for approval and do
all other things necessary to complete the subdivision and sell lots in the
subdivision and make any rules and regulations necessary for said subdivision,
including covenants. The City is the owner of the property described as
follows:
Lots 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 in Auditors Subdivision of Section 17, Township 75,
Range 44; and
Lots 5 and 8, except that part of Lot 8 described in Warranty Deed recorded in
Book 71, Page 8229, in Auditor’s Subdivision of Section 20, Township 75, Range
44, except Railroad rights-of-way, in Carter Lake, Pottawattamie County, Iowa.
 
