Code of Ordinances
of the
CITY OF
CLARION, Iowa
Prepared By: Local Government Professional Services, Inc.
DBA Iowa Codification
P. O. Box 244
114 E 5th Street
Storm Lake, Iowa 50588
(641) 355-4072
www.sc-ic.com
Adopted February 1, 2022, by Ordinance No. 613
SUPPLEMENT RECORD
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date Subject
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date     Subject
Mar-22    105.10(1)(A); 105.12(3) 611      1-18-22  Solid Waste Collection
          (C); 105.12(3)(D)
          69.08(15-16)            612      2-1-22   Parking Regulations
                                  613      2-1-22   Adopting Ordinance
Aug-23    Ch. 9                   614      4-5-22   April 2022 Addition to the
                                                    Clarion Urban Renewal Area
                                  615               FAILED
          Ch. 10                  616      10-18-22 Clarion Urban
                                                    Revitalization Area
          92.02                   617      3-7-23   Water Rates
          99.01                   618      3-7-23   Sewer Service Charges
          91.06; 91.09            619      6-20-23  Water Meters
          52.07                   620      8-1-23   Grass and Weeds
          121.04                  621      8-1-23   Cigarette and Tobacco
                                                    Permits
          165.24                  622      8-1-23   Permit Required
Mar-24    Ch. 171                 623      10-3-23  Signs
          165.03(7); 165.04(7);
          165.05(7); 165.06(7);   624      10-3-23  Zoning Regulations
          165.08(7); 165.09(7);
          165.10(7); 165.14
          Ch. 172                 625      11-21-23 Debts Subject to Setoff
          165.04(1)(E); 165.05(1) 626      2-6-24   Zoning Regulations
          (I); 165.08(1)(EE)
Nov-24    50.07                   627      8-20-24  Nuisance Abatement
                                                    Procedure
          69.17                   628      8-20-24  Parking Regulations
          Ch. 9                   629      10-1-24  Clarion Urban Renewal Area
          92.03; 92.04            630      10-1-24  Water Rates
Aug-25    69.08(17)               631      6-17-25  Parking Regulations
 
CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
1.01 Title                  1.08 Amendments
1.02 Definitions            1.09 Catchlines and Notes
1.03 City Powers            1.10 Altering Code
1.04 Indemnity              1.11 Severability
1.05 Personal Injuries      1.12 Warrants
1.06 Rules of Construction  1.13 General Standards for Action
1.07 Extension of Authority 1.14 Standard Penalty
 
1.01   TITLE.
This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Clarion, Iowa.
1.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the Code
of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council
or repugnant to the context of the provision. Other words and phrases used
herein have the following meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise in
another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or repugnant to the
context of the provision:
1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, affording
secondary means of access to abutting property.
2.   “City” means the city of Clarion, Iowa.
3.   “Clerk” means the city clerk of Clarion, Iowa.
4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code and/or a standard code adopted by reference).
5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of Clarion,
Iowa.
6.   “Council” means the city council of Clarion, Iowa.
7.   “County” means Wright County, Iowa.
8.   “IAC” means the Iowa Administrative Code.
9.   “May” confers a power.
10.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution, or motion.
11.   “Must” states a requirement.
12.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
13.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Clarion, Iowa, as
embodied in this Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance
adopting this Code of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.
14.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust, or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
15.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
16.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
17.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the edge of
the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
18.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
19.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.
20.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.
1.03   CITY POWERS.
The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if not
inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power and
perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the rights,
privileges, and property of the City and of its residents, and to preserve and
improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and convenience of its
residents, and each and every provision of this Code of Ordinances shall be
deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and the performance of the
foregoing functions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
1.04   INDEMNITY.
The applicant for any permit or license under this Code of Ordinances, by
making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising
from or related to, directly, indirectly, or remotely, the issuance of the
permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of such
applicant, or the agents, employees, or servants of such applicant, to abide by
or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Ordinances or the terms
and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by making such
application, forever agrees to indemnify the City and its officers, agents, and
employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands,
lawsuits, or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury, or death,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing.
The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any permit or
license issued under this Code of Ordinances or any other ordinance of the
City, whether expressly recited therein or not.
1.05   PERSONAL INJURIES.
When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to have
been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person by
whose negligence it claims the injury was caused. The notice shall state the
pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location of the
court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged facts from
which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person notified is
liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and asking the person
to appear and defend. A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any
action by the City against any person so notified, as to the existence of the
defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the City
to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage
or injury. The City may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the City in the suit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)
1.06   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to
ascertain the intent of the Council, with the understanding that the term
“statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.
1.07   EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate, or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.
1.08   AMENDMENTS.
All ordinances that amend, repeal, or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
1.09   CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section, and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references,
and State law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in this Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement, or clarify the contents
of a section.
1.10   ALTERING CODE.
It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code of
Ordinances in any manner that will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented.
1.11   SEVERABILITY.
If any section, provision, or part of this Code of Ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of
this Code of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof
not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
1.12   WARRANTS.
If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure, or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to enter upon or
conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an administrative
search warrant. No owner, operator or occupant, or any other person having
charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure,
building, or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search
warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.
1.13   GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
Whenever this Code of Ordinances grants any discretionary power to the Council
or any commission, board, or officer or employee of the City and does not
specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be
exercised in light of the following standard: The discretionary power to grant,
deny, or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts and
circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
1.14   STANDARD PENALTY.
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code of Ordinances for
violation of any particular provision, section, or chapter, any person failing
to perform a duty required by this Code of Ordinances or otherwise violating
any provision of this Code of Ordinances or any rule or regulation adopted
herein by reference shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of at least
$105.00 but not to exceed $855.00.† 1   
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[2] and 903.1[1a])
 
Notes
1 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For civil penalty for violations of this Code of Ordinances, see
  Chapter 4.
CHAPTER 2
CHARTER
 
2.01 Title                              2.04 Number and Term of Council
2.02 Form of Government                 2.05 Term of Mayor
2.03 Powers and Duties of City Officers 2.06 Copies on File
 
2.01   TITLE.
This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Clarion, Iowa.† 2
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 238 adopting a charter for the City was passed and
  approved by the Council on August 18, 1975. Pursuant to Resolution No. 97-20,
  adopted August 4, 1997, the Council changed the term of the Mayor that was filled
2 at the regular City election held in November 1995, and scheduled to be filled at
  the regular City election in November 1999, to a two-year term beginning in
  January 2000.  The office was next filled at the regular City election in November
  2001, and every four years thereafter.
2.02   FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
The form of government of the City is the Mayor/Council form of government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
2.03   POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.
2.04   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council Members elected at large for overlapping
terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.05   TERM OF MAYOR.
The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.06   COPIES ON FILE.
The Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file with the official
records of the Clerk and the Secretary of State, and shall keep copies of the
charter available at the Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1[3])
CHAPTER 4
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
 
4.01 Municipal Infraction    4.04 Civil Citations
4.02 Environmental Violation 4.05 Alternative Relief
4.03 Penalties               4.06 Alternative Penalties
 
4.01   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
A violation of this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance or code herein adopted
by reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by
the same, with the exception of those provisions specifically provided under
State law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious misdemeanor, or
a simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code of Iowa, is a
municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided herein.† 3
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[3])
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: For criminal penalty for violations of this Code of
3 Ordinances, see Section
  1.14.
4.02   ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.
A municipal infraction that is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of Iowa
or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the Department of
Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an environmental violation.
However, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable until the City
has offered to participate in informal negotiations regarding the violation or
to the following specific violations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8.
2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the industrial
production or manufacturing of grain products.
3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial production
or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to January 15.
4.03   PENALTIES.
A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
1.   Standard Civil Penalties.
   A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00
   B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00
Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a repeat
offense.
2.   Special Civil Penalties.
   A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment
standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8, by an industrial user
is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each day a violation
exists or continues.
   B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation is
punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence.
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial startup,
cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or conducting a
shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the equipment designed to
reduce or eliminate the violation.
      (2)   The City is notified of the violation within 24 hours from the time
that the violation begins.
      (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more than eight
hours.
4.04   CIVIL CITATIONS.
Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code of Ordinances may issue
a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction. A copy of the
citation may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the defendant at defendant’s
last known mailing address, return receipt requested, or by publication in the
manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and subject to the
conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311. A copy of the citation shall be
retained by the issuing officer, and the original citation shall be sent to the
Clerk of the District Court. The citation shall serve as notification that a
civil offense has been committed and shall contain the following information:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[4])
1.   The name and address of the defendant.
2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.
3.   The location and time of the infraction.
4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.
5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.
6.   The time and place of court appearance.
7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.
If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to the
condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local housing
regulation violation, a housing code violation, or a public health or safety
violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District Court, the
City shall also file the citation in the office of the County Treasurer.
4.05   ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. Such
alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for abatement
or injunctive relief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[9])
4.06   ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES.
This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal citation
for a violation of this Code of Ordinances or regulation if criminal penalties
are also provided for the violation. Nor does it preclude or limit the
authority of the City to enforce the provisions of this Code of Ordinances by
criminal sanctions or other lawful means.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[12])
CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES
 
5.01 Oaths                 5.07 Conflict of Interest
5.02 Bonds                 5.08 Resignations
5.03 Powers and Duties     5.09 Removal of Appointed Officers and Employees
5.04 Books and Records     5.10 Vacancies
5.05 Transfer to Successor 5.11 Gifts
5.06 Meetings
 
5.01   OATHS.
The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:
1.   Qualify for Office. Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify for
office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a bond. The
oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after such officer is certified as
elected but not later than noon of the first day that is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday in January of the first year of the term for which the officer
was elected.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)
2.   Prescribed Oath. The prescribed oath is: “I, (name), do solemnly swear
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and impartially, to the best
of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of (name of office) in
Clarion as now or hereafter required by law.”
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)
3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths. The following are empowered to
administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:
   A.   Mayor
   B.   City Clerk
   C.   Members of all boards, commissions, or bodies created by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)
5.02   BONDS.
Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:
1.   Required. The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond or
blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, Clerk,
Treasurer, and such other officers and employees as may be necessary and
advisable.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)
2.   Bonds Approved. Bonds shall be approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)
3.   Bonds Filed. All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be filed
with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23[6])
4.   Record. The Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the “Record of
Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all City
officers, elective or appointive.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24[1a] and [3])
5.03   POWERS AND DUTIES.
Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code of Ordinances, or as otherwise directed by the
Council unless contrary to State law or City charter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.04   BOOKS AND RECORDS.
All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open to
examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of law
expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept confidential.
Access to public records that are combined with data processing software shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 and 22.3A)
5.05   TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.
Each officer shall transfer to his or her successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents and property in the officer’s custody and
appertaining to that office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.06   MEETINGS.
All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be held
in accordance with the following:
1.   Notice of Meetings. Reasonable notice, as defined by State law, of the
time, date, and place of each meeting and its tentative agenda shall be given.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)
2.   Meetings Open. All meetings shall be held in open session unless closed
sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
3.   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time and
place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting. The minutes
shall show the results of each vote taken and information sufficient to
indicate the vote of each member present. The vote of each member present shall
be made public at the open session. The minutes shall be public records open to
public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
4.   Closed Session. A closed session may be held only by affirmative vote of
either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the meeting and
in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)
5.   Cameras and Recorders. The public may use cameras or recording devices at
any open session.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
6.   Electronic Meetings. A meeting may be conducted by electronic means only
in circumstances where such a meeting in person is impossible or impractical
and then only in compliance with the provisions of Chapter 21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)
5.07   CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect, in
any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services to
be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law. A
contract entered into in violation of this section is void. The provisions of
this section do not apply to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)
1.   Compensation of Officers. The payment of lawful compensation of a City
officer or employee holding more than one City office or position, the holding
of which is not incompatible with another public office or is not prohibited by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3a])
2.   Investment of Funds. The designation of a bank or trust company as a
depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3b])
3.   City Treasurer. An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves as
Treasurer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3c])
4.   Stock Interests. Contracts in which a City officer or employee has an
interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in Subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract. The competitive bid qualification
of this subsection does not apply to a contract for professional services not
customarily awarded by competitive bid.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3e])
5.   Newspaper. The designation of an official newspaper.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3f])
6.   Existing Contracts. A contract in which a City officer or employee has an
interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or employee was
elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3g])
7.   Volunteers. Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3h])
8.   Corporations. A contract with a corporation in which a City officer or
employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or immediate
family of such officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3i])
9.   Contracts. Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in writing,
publicly invited and opened.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3d])
10.   Cumulative Purchases. Contracts not otherwise permitted by this section,
for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or employee,
if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed a cumulative
total purchase price of $6,000.00 in a fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3j])
11.   Franchise Agreements. Franchise agreements between the City and a utility
and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential City
utility services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3k])
12.   Third Party Contracts. A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the City
but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not be the
original underwriter, purchaser, or obligee of the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3l])
5.08   RESIGNATIONS.
An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a resignation
in writing to the Clerk so that it shall be properly recorded and considered. A
person who resigns from an elective office is not eligible for appointment to
the same office during the time for which the person was elected if, during
that time, the compensation of the office has been increased.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[9])
5.09   REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order. The order shall
give the reasons, be filed in the office of the Clerk, and a copy shall be sent
by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request filed with the Clerk
within 30 days after the date of mailing the copy, shall be granted a public
hearing before the Council on all issues connected with the removal. The
hearing shall be held within 30 days after the date the request is filed,
unless the person removed requests a later date.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)
5.10   VACANCIES.
A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled in
accordance with Section 372.13[2] of the Code of Iowa.
5.11   GIFTS.
Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or series
of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a restricted
donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly with one or
more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of gifts to a
public official, public employee, or candidate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)
CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS
 
6.01 Nominating Method to Be Used 6.04 Preparation of Petition and Affidavit
6.02 Nominations by Petition      6.05 Filing; Presumption; Withdrawals;
                                  Objections
6.03 Adding Name by Petition      6.06 Persons Elected
 
6.01   NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.
All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 45 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)
6.02   NOMINATIONS BY PETITION.
Nominations for elective municipal offices of the City may be made by
nomination paper or papers signed by not less than 25 eligible electors,
residents of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.1)
6.03   ADDING NAME BY PETITION.
The name of a candidate placed upon the ballot by any other method than by
petition shall not be added by petition for the same office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.2)
6.04   PREPARATION OF PETITION AND AFFIDAVIT.
Nomination papers shall include a petition and an affidavit of candidacy. The
petition and affidavit shall be substantially in the form prescribed by the
State Commissioner of Elections, shall include information required by the Code
of Iowa, and shall be signed in accordance with the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.3, 45.5, and 45.6)
6.05   FILING; PRESUMPTION; WITHDRAWALS; OBJECTIONS.
The time and place of filing nomination petitions, the presumption of validity
thereof, the right of a candidate so nominated to withdraw and the effect of
such withdrawal, and the right to object to the legal sufficiency of such
petitions, or to the eligibility of the candidate, shall be governed by the
appropriate provisions of Chapter 44 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.4)
6.06   PERSONS ELECTED.
The candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for each office on the
ballot are elected, to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8[3])
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
 
7.01 Purpose         7.05 Operating Budget Preparation
7.02 Finance Officer 7.06 Budget Amendments
7.03 Cash Control    7.07 Accounting
7.04 Fund Control    7.08 Financial Reports
 
7.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules and
regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.
7.02   FINANCE OFFICER.
The City Administrator/Clerk is the finance and accounting officer of the City
and is responsible for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
7.03   CASH CONTROL.
To assure the proper accounting and safe custody of moneys the following shall
apply:
1.   Deposit of Funds. All moneys or fees collected for any purpose by any City
officer shall be deposited through the office of the finance officer. If any
said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the officer by check
drawn by the finance officer and approved by the Council only upon such
officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as required by law,
ordinance, or Council directive.
2.   Deposits and Investments. All moneys belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State law,
including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, 12C.1)
3.   Petty Cash Fund. The finance officer shall be custodian of a petty cash
fund for the payment of small claims for minor purchases, collect-on-delivery
transportation charges, and small fees customarily paid at the time of
rendering a service, for which payments the finance officer shall obtain some
form of receipt or bill acknowledged as paid by the vendor or agent. At such
time as the petty cash fund is approaching depletion, the finance officer shall
draw a check for replenishment in the amount of the accumulated expenditures
and said check and supporting detail shall be submitted to the Council as a
claim in the usual manner for claims and charged to the proper funds and
accounts. It shall not be used for salary payments or other personal services
or personal expenses.
4.   Change Fund. The finance officer is authorized to draw a warrant/check on
the Utility Fund for establishing a change fund for the purpose of making
change without comingling other funds to meet the requirements of the office.
Said change fund shall be in the custody of the Clerk, who shall maintain the
integrity of the fund.
7.04   FUND CONTROL.
There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following:
1.   Revenues. All moneys received by the City shall be credited to the proper
fund as required by law, ordinance, or resolution.
2.   Expenditures. No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance, or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council.
3.   Emergency Fund. No transfer may be made from any fund to the Emergency
Fund.
(545 IAC 2.5[2])
4.   Debt Service Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by State law,
moneys may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service Fund to
meet payments of principal and interest. Such transfers must be authorized by
the original budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5[3])
5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by
State law, moneys may be transferred from any City fund to the Capital
Improvements Reserve Fund. Such transfers must be authorized by the original
budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5[4])
6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds. A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise Fund
may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund, by
resolution of the Council. A surplus may exist only after all required
transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in accordance with the
terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan agreements relating to the
Utility or Enterprise Fund. A surplus is defined as the cash balance in the
operating account or the unrestricted net position calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, after adding back the net
pension and other postemployment benefits, liabilities, and the related
deferred inflows of resources and deducting the related deferred outflows of
resources, in excess of:
   A.   The amount of the expenses of disbursements for operating and
maintaining the utility or enterprise for the preceding three months; and
   B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to restricted
accounts for the succeeding three months.
(545 IAC 2.5[5])
7.   Balancing of Funds. Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close of each
month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.
7.05   OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION.
The annual operating budget of the City shall be prepared in accordance with
the following:
1.   Proposal Prepared. The finance officer is responsible for preparation of
the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council and adoption by
the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and Council.
2.   Boards and Commissions. All boards, commissions, and other administrative
agencies of the City that are authorized to prepare and administer budgets must
submit their budget proposals to the finance officer for inclusion in the
proposed City budget at such time and in such form as required by the Council.
3.   Submission to Council. The finance officer shall submit the completed
budget proposal to the Council each year at such time as directed by the
Council.
4.   Resolution Establishing Maximum Property Tax Dollars. The Council shall
adopt a resolution establishing the total maximum property tax dollars that may
be certified for levy that includes taxes for City government purposes under
Code of Iowa Section 384.1, for the City’s trust and agency fund under Code of
Iowa Section 384.6, Subsection 1, for the City’s emergency fund under Code of
Iowa Section 384.8, and for the levies authorized under Code of Iowa Section
384.12, Subsections 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, and 21, but excluding additions
approved at election under Code of Iowa Section 384.12, Subsection 19.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.15A)
   A.   The Council shall set a time and place for a public hearing on the
resolution before the date for adoption of the resolution and shall publish
notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days prior to the
hearing in a newspaper published at least once weekly and having general
circulation in the City.
   B.   If the City has an internet site, the notice shall also be posted and
clearly identified on the City’s internet site for public viewing beginning on
the date of the newspaper publication or public posting, as applicable.
Additionally, if the City maintains a social media account on one or more
social media applications, the public hearing notice or an electronic link to
the public hearing notice shall be posted on each such account on the same day
as the publication of the notice. All of the following shall be included in the
notice:
      (1)   The sum of the current fiscal year’s actual property taxes
certified for levy under the levies specified in this subsection and the
current fiscal year’s combined property tax levy rate for such amount that is
applicable to taxable property in the City other than property used and
assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
      (2)   The effective tax rate calculated using the sum of the current
fiscal year’s actual property taxes certified for levy under the levies
specified in this subsection, applicable to taxable property in the City other
than property used and assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
      (3)   The sum of the proposed maximum property tax dollars that may be
certified for levy for the budget year under the levies specified in this
subsection and the proposed combined property tax levy rate for such amount
applicable to taxable property in the City other than property used and
assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
      (4)   If the proposed maximum property tax dollars specified under
Subparagraph (3) exceed the current fiscal year’s actual property tax dollars
certified for levy specified in Subparagraph (1), a statement of the major
reasons for the increase.
Proof of publication shall be filed with and preserved by the County Auditor.
The Department of Management shall prescribe the form for the public hearing
notice for cities and the form for the resolution to be adopted by the Council
under Paragraph C of this subsection.
   C.   At the public hearing, the Council shall receive oral or written
objections from any resident or property owner of the City. After all
objections have been received and considered, the Council may decrease, but not
increase, the proposed maximum property tax dollar amount for inclusion in the
resolution and shall adopt the resolution and file the resolution with the
County Auditor as required under Code of Iowa Section 384.16, Subsection 3.
   D.   If the sum of the maximum property tax dollars for the budget year
specified in the resolution under the levies specified in this subsection
exceeds 102 percent of the sum of the current fiscal year’s actual property
taxes certified for levy under the levies specified in this subsection, the
Council shall be required to adopt the resolution by a two-thirds majority of
the membership of the Council.
   E.   If the City has an internet site, in addition to filing the resolution
with the Auditor under Code of Iowa Section 384.16, Subsection 3, the adopted
resolution shall be posted and clearly identified on the City’s internet site
for public viewing within 10 days of approval by the Council. The posted
resolution for a budget year shall continue to be accessible for public viewing
on the internet site along with resolutions posted for all subsequent budget
years.
5.   Council Review. The Council shall review the proposed budget and may make
any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting such
proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.
6.   Notice of Hearing. Following, and not until adoption of the resolution
required under Subsection 4 of this section, the Council shall set a time and
place for public hearing on the budget to be held before March 31 and shall
publish notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days before the
hearing. A summary of the proposed budget and a description of the procedure
for protesting the City budget under Section 384.19 of the Code of Iowa, in the
form prescribed by the Director of the Department of Management, shall be
included in the notice. Proof of publication of the notice under this
subsection and a copy of the resolution adopted under Subsection 4 of this
section must be filed with the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[3])
7.   Copies of Budget on File. Not less than 20 days before the date that the
budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less than 10 days before
the public hearing, the Clerk shall make available a sufficient number of
copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of taxpayers and
organizations, and have them available for distribution at the offices of the
Mayor and Clerk and at the City library.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[2])
8.   Adoption and Certification. After the hearing, the Council shall adopt, by
resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the Clerk shall
certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal year to the County Auditor
and the County Board of Supervisors. The tax levy certified may be less than,
but not more than, the amount estimated in the proposed budget submitted at the
final hearing or the applicable amount specified in the resolution adopted
under Subsection 4 of this section. Two copies each of the detailed budget as
adopted and of the tax certificate must be transmitted to the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[5])
7.06   BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes effective
July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and purpose
specified therein until amended as provided by this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)
1.   Program Increase. Any increase in the amount appropriated to a program
must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as the
original budget.
(545 IAC 2.2)
2.   Program Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as
the original budget.
(545 IAC 2.3)
3.   Activity Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one activity to
another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council.
(545 IAC 2.4)
4.   Administrative Transfers. The finance officer shall have the authority to
adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval.
(545 IAC 2.4)
7.07   ACCOUNTING.
The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:
1.   Books of Original Entry. There shall be established and maintained books
of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received and
disbursed.
2.   General Ledger. There shall be established and maintained a general ledger
controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for recording
unappropriated surpluses.
3.   Checks. Two signatures are required on all City checks. Checks shall be
prenumbered and signed by any two of the following: City Administrator/Clerk,
Mayor, Utility Billing Clerk, or Administrative Assistant, following Council
approval, except as provided by Subsection 5 hereof.
4.   Budget Accounts. There shall be established such individual accounts to
record receipts by source and expenditures by program and activity as will
provide adequate information and control for budgeting purposes as planned and
approved by the Council. Each individual account shall be maintained within its
proper fund and so kept that receipts can be immediately and directly compared
with revenue estimates and expenditures can be related to the authorizing
appropriation. No expenditure shall be posted except to the appropriation for
the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
5.   Immediate Payment Authorized. The Council may by resolution authorize the
Clerk to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts due, which if not paid
promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for late payment or
additional interest cost. Any such payments made shall be reported to the
Council for review and approval with and in the same manner as other claims at
the next meeting following such payment. The resolution authorizing immediate
payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized and may include (but is
not limited to) payment of utility bills, contractual obligations, payroll, and
bond principal and interest.
6.   Utilities. The finance officer shall perform and be responsible for
accounting functions of the municipally owned utilities.
7.08   FINANCIAL REPORTS.
The finance officer shall prepare and file the following financial reports:
1.   Monthly Reports. There shall be submitted to the Council each month a
report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program, and
activity for the preceding month.
2.   Annual Report. Not later than December 1 of each year there shall be
published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal year
of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit of
the City for the current fiscal year. A copy of the annual report must be filed
with the Auditor of State not later than December 1 of each year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS
 
8.01 Purpose                        8.06 Applications
8.02 Definitions                    8.07 Approval
8.03 Period of Partial Exemption    8.08 Exemption Repealed
8.04 Amounts Eligible for Exemption 8.09 Dual Exemptions Prohibited
8.05 Limitations
 
8.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a partial exemption from property
taxation of the actual value added to industrial real estate by the new
construction of industrial real estate, research-service facilities,
warehouses, and distribution centers.
8.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Actual value added” means the actual value added as of the first year for
which the exemption is received.
2.   “Distribution center” means a building or structure used primarily for the
storage of goods that are intended for subsequent shipment to retail outlets.
Distribution center does not mean a building or structure used primarily to
store raw agricultural products, used primarily by a manufacturer to store
goods to be used in the manufacturing process, used primarily for the storage
of petroleum products, or used for the retail sale of goods.
3.   “New construction” means new buildings and structures and includes new
buildings and structures that are constructed as additions to existing
buildings and structures. New construction does not include reconstruction of
an existing building or structure that does not constitute complete replacement
of an existing building or structure or refitting of an existing building or
structure unless the reconstruction of an existing building or structure is
required due to economic obsolescence and the reconstruction is necessary to
implement recognized industry standards for the manufacturing and processing of
specific products and the reconstruction is required for the owner of the
building or structure to continue competitively to manufacture or process those
products, which determination shall receive prior approval from the City
Council.
4.   “Research-service facilities” means a building or group of buildings
devoted primarily to research and development activities, including (but not
limited to) the design and production or manufacture of prototype products for
experimental use and corporate research services that do not have a primary
purpose of providing on-site services to the public.
5.   “Warehouse” means a building or structure used as a public warehouse for
the storage of goods pursuant to Chapter 554, Article 7, of the Code of Iowa,
except that it does not mean a building or structure used primarily to store
raw agricultural products or from which goods are sold at retail.
8.03   PERIOD OF PARTIAL EXEMPTION.
The actual value added to industrial real estate by the new construction of
industrial real estate, research-service facilities, warehouses, and
distribution centers is eligible to receive a partial exemption from taxation
for a period of five years. The exemption shall also apply to the acquisition
of or improvement to machinery and equipment assessed as real estate pursuant
to Section 427A.1[1e] of the Code of Iowa, unless the machinery or equipment is
part of the normal replacement or operating process to maintain or expand the
existing operational status.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.04   AMOUNTS ELIGIBLE FOR EXEMPTION.
The amount of actual value added, which is eligible to be exempt from taxation,
shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
1.   For the first year, 75 percent.
2.   For the second year, 60 percent.
3.   For the third year, 45 percent.
4.   For the fourth year, 30 percent.
5.   For the fifth year, 15 percent.
8.05   LIMITATIONS.
The granting of the exemption under this chapter for new construction
constituting complete replacement of an existing building or structure shall
not result in the assessed value of the industrial real estate being reduced
below the assessed value of the industrial real estate before the start of the
new construction added.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.06   APPLICATIONS.
An application shall be filed for each project resulting in actual value added
for which an exemption is claimed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
1.   The application for exemption shall be filed by the owner of the property
with the local assessor by February 1 of the assessment year in which the value
added is first assessed for taxation.
2.   Applications for exemption shall be made on forms prescribed by the
Director of Revenue and shall contain information pertaining to the nature of
the improvement, its cost, and other information deemed necessary by the
Director of Revenue.
8.07   APPROVAL.
A person may submit a proposal to the City Council to receive prior approval
for eligibility for a tax exemption on new construction. If the City Council
resolves to consider such proposal, it shall publish notice and hold a public
hearing thereon. Thereafter, at least 30 days after such hearing, the City
Council, by ordinance, may give its prior approval of a tax exemption for new
construction if the new construction is in conformance with City zoning. Such
prior approval shall not entitle the owner to exemption from taxation until the
new construction has been completed and found to be qualified real estate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
8.08   EXEMPTION REPEALED.
When in the opinion of the City Council continuation of the exemption granted
by this chapter ceases to be of benefit to the City, the City Council may
repeal this chapter, but all existing exemptions shall continue until their
expiration.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.5)
8.09   DUAL EXEMPTIONS PROHIBITED.
A property tax exemption under this chapter shall not be granted if the
property for which the exemption is claimed has received any other property tax
exemption authorized by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.6)
CHAPTER 9
URBAN RENEWAL
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED NAME OF AREA
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED  NAME OF AREA
346           12-16-91 Clarion Urban Renewal Area #1
354           11-2-92  Clarion Urban Renewal Area, Amendment No. 1
403           12-15-97 Clarion Urban Renewal Area, Amendment No. 2
414           5-1-00   Clarion Urban Renewal Area, Amendment No. 3
418           4-2-01   Clarion Urban Renewal Area, Amendment No. 4
443           2-7-05   Clarion Urban Renewal Area, Amendment No. 5
512           10-15-07 Clarion Urban Renewal Area, Amendment No. 6
540           2-20-12  Clarion Urban Renewal Area, Amendment No. 7
550           11-4-13  2013 Addition to the Clarion Urban Renewal Area
551           11-18-13 Deleting Property from the Clarion Urban Renewal Area
552           2-17-14  2014 Addition to the Clarion Urban Renewal Area
614           4-5-22   April 2022 Addition to the Clarion Urban Renewal Area
629           10-1-24  Clarion Urban Renewal Area
CHAPTER 10
URBAN REVITALIZATION
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted designating Urban Revitalization Areas in the City
and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED NAME OF AREA
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted designating Urban Revitalization Areas in the City
and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED           NAME OF AREA
327           October 5, 1987   Urban Revitalization Area
402           December 15, 1997 Central Neighborhood Urban Revitalization Area
420           August 6, 2001    Clarion Urban Revitalization Area
553           March 17, 2014    Clarion Urban Revitalization Area
616           October 18, 2022  Clarion Urban Revitalization Area
 
CHAPTER 15
MAYOR
 
15.01 Term of Office    15.04 Compensation
15.02 Powers and Duties 15.05 Voting
15.03 Appointments
 
15.01   TERM OF OFFICE.
The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
15.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:
1.   Chief Executive Officer. Act as the chief executive officer of the City
and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the City,
except for supervisory duties delegated to the City Administrator, give
direction to department heads concerning the functions of the departments, and
have the power to examine all functions of the municipal departments, their
records and to call for special reports from department heads at any time.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
2.   Proclamation of Emergency. Have authority to take command of the police
and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that a time of
emergency or public danger exists. Within the City limits, the Mayor has all
the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[2])
3.   Special Meetings. Call special meetings of the Council when the Mayor
deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
4.   Mayor’s Veto. Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance, amendment, or
resolution passed by the Council. The Mayor may veto an ordinance, amendment,
or resolution within 14 days after passage. The Mayor shall explain the reasons
for the veto in a written message to the Council at the time of the veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 and 380.6[2])
5.   Reports to Council. Make such oral or written reports to the Council as
required. These reports shall concern municipal affairs generally, the
municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for Council action.
6.   Negotiations. Represent the City in all negotiations properly entered into
in accordance with law or ordinance. The Mayor shall not represent the City
where this duty is specifically delegated to another officer by law, ordinance,
or Council direction.
7.   Contracts. Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on behalf of
the City.
8.   Professional Services. Upon order of the Council, secure for the City such
specialized and professional services not already available to the City. In
executing the order of the Council, the Mayor shall act in accordance with this
Code of Ordinances and the laws of the State.
9.   Licenses and Permits. Sign all licenses and permits that have been granted
by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be issued by
another municipal officer.
10.   Nuisances. Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.
11.   Absentee Officer. Make appropriate provision that duties of any absentee
officer be carried on during such absence.
15.03   APPOINTMENTS.
The Mayor shall appoint the following officials, subject to the consent of the
majority of the Council:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
1.   Mayor Pro Tem
2.   Police Chief
3.   Peace Officers
4.   Park Board
5.   Library Board of Trustees
15.04   COMPENSATION.
The salary of the Mayor is $5,000.00 per year, paid quarterly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
15.05   VOTING.
The Mayor is not a member of the Council and shall not vote as a member of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM
 
16.01 Vice President of Council 16.03 Voting Rights
16.02 Powers and Duties         16.04 Compensation
 
16.01   VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, subject to
the consent of the majority of the Council, who shall serve as vice president
of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem shall
perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the Mayor
to perform such duties. In the exercise of the duties of the office the Mayor
Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ, or discharge from employment
officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint, employ, or
discharge without the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.03   VOTING RIGHTS.
The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.04   COMPENSATION.
If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of 15 days or more, the Mayor Pro
Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined by the Council,
based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s duties and upon the
compensation of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL
 
17.01 Number and Term of Council 17.04 Council Meetings
17.02 Powers and Duties          17.05 Appointments
17.03 Exercise of Power          17.06 Compensation
 
17.01   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council members elected at large for overlapping
terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 and 376.2)
17.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:
1.   General. All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
2.   Wards. By ordinance, the Council may divide the City into wards based upon
population, change the boundaries of wards, eliminate wards, or create new
wards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[7])
3.   Fiscal Authority. The Council shall apportion and appropriate all funds,
and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls, and claims, and order
payment thereof. It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers, and other work, improvement, or repairs that
may be specially assessed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1], 384.16, and 384.38[1])
4.   Public Improvements. The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
5.   Contracts. The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts. No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 26)
6.   Employees. The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number, duties,
term of office, and compensation of employees or officers not otherwise
provided for by State law or the Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
7.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers. By ordinance, the Council shall
prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and other elected
City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor does not become
effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and the Council shall
not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any elected officer
during the months of November and December in the year of a regular City
election. A change in the compensation of Council members becomes effective for
all Council members at the beginning of the term of the Council members elected
at the election next following the change in compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
17.03   EXERCISE OF POWER.
The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[1])
1.   Action by Council. Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or resolution
requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council. Passage of a
motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council. A resolution must
be passed to spend public funds in excess of $100,000.00 on a public
improvement project, or to accept public improvements and facilities upon their
completion. Each Council member’s vote on a measure must be recorded. A measure
that fails to receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered
defeated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)
2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto. Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all
of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
3.   Measures Become Effective. Measures passed by the Council become effective
in one of the following ways:
   A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective when
the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1a])
   B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately upon
signing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1b])
   C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the motion by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1c])
   D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment, or resolution and the
Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes
effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a
law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
   E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment, or resolution,
a resolution becomes effective 14 days after the date of passage, and an
ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a summary of the
ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the date of passage,
unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[3])
“All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the Council
including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but does not
include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason of a
conflict of interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1[a])
17.04   COUNCIL MEETINGS.
Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section
5.06 of this Code of Ordinances. Additional particulars relating to Council
meetings are the following:
1.   Regular Meetings. The time and place of the regular meetings of the
Council shall be fixed by resolution of the Council.
2.   Special Meetings. Special meetings shall be held upon call of the Mayor or
upon the request of a majority of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
3.   Quorum. A majority of all Council members is a quorum.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[1])
4.   Rules of Procedure. The Council shall determine its own rules and maintain
records of its proceedings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
5.   Compelling Attendance. Any three members of the Council can compel the
attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned, or duly called
meeting, by serving a written notice upon the absent members to attend at once.
17.05   APPOINTMENTS.
The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their powers,
duties, compensation, and term of office:
1.   City Administrator/Clerk
2.   City Attorney
3.   Planning and Zoning Commission
4.   Zoning Board of Adjustment
5.   Hospital Board of Commissioners
17.06   COMPENSATION.
The salary of each Council member is $50.00 for each meeting of the Council
attended, and $10.00 per committee meeting attended.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 18
CITY CLERK
 
18.01 Appointment and Compensation 18.08 Records
18.02 Powers and Duties: General   18.09 Attendance at Meetings
18.03 Publication of Minutes       18.10 Licenses and Permits
18.04 Recording Measures           18.11 Notification of Appointments
18.05 Other Publications           18.12 Elections
18.06 Authentication               18.13 City Seal
18.07 Certification
 
18.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
The City Administrator is ex officio City Clerk and has the duties, powers, and
functions prescribed in this chapter, by State law, and other ordinances of the
City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3])
18.02   POWERS AND DUTIES: GENERAL.
The Clerk (or, in the Clerk’s absence or inability to act, the Deputy Clerk)
has the powers and duties as provided in this chapter, this Code of Ordinances,
and the law.
18.03   PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.
Within 15 days following a regular or special meeting, the Clerk shall cause
the minutes of the proceedings thereof to be published. Such publication shall
include a list of all claims allowed and a summary of all receipts and shall
show the gross amount of the claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[6])
18.04   RECORDING MEASURES.
The Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by the Council and
record a statement with the measure, where applicable, indicating whether the
Mayor signed, vetoed, or took no action on the measure, and whether the measure
was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[1 and 2])
18.05   OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
The Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances, enactments, proceedings,
and official notices requiring publication as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
1.   Time. If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action is
required by this Code of Ordinances or law, the notice must be published at
least once, not less than four or more than 20 days before the date of the
election, hearing, or other action, unless otherwise provided by law.
2.   Manner of Publication. A publication required by this Code of Ordinances
or law must be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and having general
circulation in the City.
18.06   AUTHENTICATION.
The Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions with the Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and manner of publication when required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[4])
18.07   CERTIFICATION.
The Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning district, building
lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district, lines, or limits to the
recorder of the County containing the affected parts of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)
18.08   RECORDS.
The Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the following manner:
1.   Ordinances and Codes. Maintain copies of all effective City ordinances and
codes for public use.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[5])
2.   Custody. Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
3.   Maintenance. Maintain all City records and documents (or accurate
reproductions) for at least five years except that ordinances, resolutions,
Council proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions)
relating to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption, or replacement of
public bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least 11 years following the
final maturity of the bonds or obligations. Ordinances, resolutions, Council
proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions) relating to
real property transactions shall be maintained permanently.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3 and 5])
4.   Provide Copy. Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy of any
record, paper, or public document under the Clerk’s control when it may be
necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s duty; furnish a
copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set by Council
resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized officer, affix
the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments that by this Code
of Ordinances are required to be attested by the affixing of the seal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4 and 5] and 380.7[5])
5.   Filing of Communications. Keep and file all communications and petitions
directed to the Council or to the City generally. The Clerk shall endorse
thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered in such
communications and petitions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.09   ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
The Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council meetings and, at the
direction of the Council, the Clerk shall attend meetings of committees,
boards, and commissions. The Clerk shall record and preserve a correct record
of the proceedings of such meetings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.10   LICENSES AND PERMITS.
The Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when authorized by this
Code of Ordinances, and keep a record of licenses and permits issued which
shall show date of issuance, license or permit number, official receipt number,
name of person to whom issued, term of license or permit, and purpose for which
issued.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.11   NOTIFICATION OF APPOINTMENTS.
The Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or Council to offices
in the City government of their positions and the time at which they shall
assume the duties of their offices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.12   ELECTIONS.
The Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections in accordance with
Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.
18.13   CITY SEAL.
The City seal is in the custody of the Clerk and shall be attached by the Clerk
to all transcripts, orders, and certificates that it may be necessary or proper
to authenticate. The City seal is circular in form, in the center of which are
the words “CLARION, IOWA” and around the margin of which are the words “CITY
SEAL.”
CHAPTER 20
CITY ATTORNEY
 
20.01 Appointment and Compensation 20.05 Review and Comment
20.02 Attorney for City            20.06 Provide Legal Opinion
20.03 Power of Attorney            20.07 Attendance at Council Meetings
20.04 Ordinance Preparation        20.08 Prepare Documents
 
20.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Attorney to serve for a term
of one year. The City Attorney shall receive such compensation as established
by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.02   ATTORNEY FOR CITY.
The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters affecting
the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any court,
tribunal, commission, or board. The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend all
actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.03   POWER OF ATTORNEY.
The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and to
all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the prosecution
of any cause in court, and when so signed the City shall be bound upon the
same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.04   ORDINANCE PREPARATION.
The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances that the Council may desire
and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such ordinances
before their final passage by the Council and publication.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.05   REVIEW AND COMMENT.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council giving an
opinion on all contracts, documents, resolutions, or ordinances submitted to or
coming under the City Attorney’s notice.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.06   PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.
The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
City Administrator/Clerk, Mayor, Council, Police Chief, and Public Works
Director.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.07   ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.08   PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts, forms,
and other writings that may be required for the use of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
CHAPTER 21
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
 
21.01 Appointment and Term          21.05 Ex-officio City Clerk
21.02 Compensation                  21.06 Deputy City Clerk
21.03 Administrative Responsibility 21.07 Bond
21.04 Duties
 
21.01   APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
The City Administrator shall be appointed by majority vote of the Council and
is an at-will employee and shall serve at the pleasure of the City Council.
21.02   COMPENSATION.
The City Administrator shall receive such annual salary as the Council shall
from time to time determine by resolution.
21.03   ADMINISTRATIVE RESPONSIBILITY.
The City Administrator is directly responsible to the Council for the
administration of municipal affairs as directed by that body. All departmental
activity requiring the attention of the Council shall be brought before the
Council by the City Administrator and all Council involvement in administration
initiated by the Council must be coordinated through the City Administrator.
21.04   DUTIES.
The duties of the City Administrator are as follows:
1.   To supervise enforcement and execution of the City laws.
2.   To attend all meeting of the Council unless excused by the Mayor.
3.   To recommend to the Council such measures as deemed necessary or expedient
for the good government and welfare of the City.
4.   To have the general supervision and direction of the administration of the
City government and to appoint with approval of the Council such administrative
assistants as shall be deemed advisable.
5.   To assist the Mayor in any of the Mayor’s duties as requested by the Mayor
and as approved by the Council.
6.   To assist the Council with the municipal boards and commissions by making
recommendations to the boards and commissions about planning, activities and
the execution of its policies and programs as agreed on.
7.   To cooperate with any administrative agency and make recommendations to
the Council for joint or cooperative activities with said agencies.
8.   To supervise and direct the official conduct of all employees of the City
except the City Attorney.
9.   To employ, reclassify or discharge City employees in accordance with
Council-approved policies regarding pay, employment, and removal of such
employees. However, this shall not apply to the City Attorney or positions
appointed by the Mayor or City Council, or positions for which City Council
approval is required (see Sections
15.03,
17.05, and
35.05 of this Code of Ordinances).
10.   To have the power to appoint or employ persons to fill all places for
which no other mode of appointment is provided and to have the power to
administer oaths of office.
11.   To oversee the Public Works Director in the construction, improvement,
repair, maintenance, and management of all City property, capital improvements,
and undertakings of the City, including the making and preservation of all
surveys, maps, plans, drawings, specifications, and estimates for capital
improvements.
12.   To oversee the Public Works Director in the performance of all contracts
for work to be done for the City, including all purchases of material and
supplies and seeing that such material and supplies are received and are of the
quality and character called for by the contract.
13.   To investigate, summarily and without notice, any affairs and conduct of
any department, agency, officer, or employee.
14.   To provide for and cause records to be kept of the issuance and
revocation of licenses and permits authorized by City and State law.
15.   To keep the Council fully advised of the financial and other conditions
of the City and of its future needs.
16.   To conduct the business affairs of the City and cause accurate records to
be kept by modern and efficient accounting methods.
17.   To perform other duties at the Council’s direction.
21.05   EX-OFFICIO CITY CLERK.
The City Administrator is ex officio City Clerk and also performs the duties of
Clerk as identified in
Chapter 18 of this Code of Ordinances.
21.06   DEPUTY CITY CLERK.
The City Administrator may appoint a Deputy City Clerk and Administrative
Assistant to perform the duties of the Clerk in the City Administrator’s
absence and to perform such other duties assigned to the Deputy City Clerk.
21.07   BOND.
The City Administrator and Administrative Assistant shall be bonded for the
faithful performance of duties and in favor of the City, in the sum of
$50,000.00. The City shall pay the cost of this bond.
CHAPTER 22
LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
 
22.01 Public Library                   22.07 Nonresident Use
22.02 Library Trustees                 22.08 Expenditures
22.03 Qualifications of Trustees       22.09 Annual Report
22.04 Organization of the Board        22.10 Injury to Books or Property
22.05 Powers and Duties                22.11 Theft
22.06 Contracting with Other Libraries 22.12 Notice Posted
 
22.01   PUBLIC LIBRARY.
The public library for the City is known as the Clarion Public Library. It is
referred to in this chapter as the Library.
22.02   LIBRARY TRUSTEES.
The Board of Trustees of the Library, hereinafter referred to as the Board,
consists of four resident members and one non-resident member. All resident
members are to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council. The
nonresident member is to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the
County Board of Supervisors.
22.03   QUALIFICATIONS OF TRUSTEES.
All resident members of the Board shall be bona fide citizens and residents of
the City. The nonresident member of the Board shall be a bona fide citizen and
resident of the unincorporated County. Members shall be over the age of 18
years.
22.04   ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD.
The organization of the Board shall be as follows:
1.   Term of Office. All appointments to the Board shall be for six years,
except to fill vacancies. Each term shall commence on July 1. Appointments
shall be made every two years of one-third the total number or as near as
possible, to stagger the terms.
2.   Vacancies. The position of any resident Trustee shall be vacated if such
member moves permanently from the City. The position of a nonresident Trustee
shall be vacated if such member moves permanently from the County or into the
City. The position of any Trustee shall be deemed vacated if such member is
absent from six consecutive regular meetings of the Board, except in the case
of sickness or temporary absence from the City or County. Vacancies in the
Board shall be filled in the same manner as an original appointment except that
the new Trustee shall fill out the unexpired term for which the appointment is
made.
3.   Compensation. Trustees shall receive no compensation for their services.
22.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
1.   Officers. To meet and elect from its members a President, a Secretary, and
such other officers as it deems necessary.
2.   Physical Plant. To have charge, control, and supervision of the Library,
its appurtenances, fixtures, and rooms containing the same.
3.   Charge of Affairs. To direct and control all affairs of the Library.
4.   Hiring of Personnel. To employ a Library Director, and authorize the
Library Director to employ such assistants and employees as may be necessary
for the proper management of the Library, and fix their compensation; provided,
however, prior to such employment, the compensation of the Library Director,
assistants, and employees shall have been fixed and approved by a majority of
the members of the Board voting in favor thereof.
5.   Removal of Personnel. To remove the Library Director, by a two-thirds vote
of the Board, and provide procedures for the removal of the assistants or
employees for misdemeanor, incompetence, or inattention to duty, subject
however, to the provisions of Chapter 35C of the Code of Iowa.
6.   Purchases. To select, or authorize the Library Director to select, and
make purchases of books, pamphlets, magazines, periodicals, papers, maps,
journals, other Library materials, furniture, fixtures, stationery, and
supplies for the Library within budgetary limits set by the Board.
7.   Use by Nonresidents. To authorize the use of the Library by nonresidents
and to fix charges therefor unless a contract for free service exists.
8.   Rules and Regulations. To make and adopt, amend, modify, or repeal rules
and regulations, not inconsistent with this Code of Ordinances and the law, for
the care, use, government, and management of the Library and the business of
the Board, fixing and enforcing penalties for violations.
9.   Expenditures. To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all funds
allocated for Library purposes by the Council, and of all moneys available by
gift or otherwise for the erection of Library buildings, and of all other
moneys belonging to the Library including fines and rentals collected under the
rules of the Board.
10.   Gifts. To accept gifts of real property, personal property, or mixed
property, and devises, and bequests, including trust funds; to take the title
to said property in the name of the Library; to execute deeds and bills of sale
for the conveyance of said property; and to expend the funds received by them
from such gifts, for the improvement of the Library.
11.   Enforce the Performance of Conditions on Gifts. To enforce the
performance of conditions on gifts, donations, devises, and bequests accepted
by the City by action against the Council.
12.   Record of Proceedings. To keep a record of its proceedings.
13.   County Historical Association. To have authority to make agreements with
the local County historical association where such exists, and to set apart the
necessary room and to care for such articles as may come into the possession of
the association. The Trustees are further authorized to purchase necessary
receptacles and materials for the preservation and protection of such articles
as are in their judgment of a historical and educational nature and pay for the
same out of funds allocated for Library purposes.
22.06   CONTRACTING WITH OTHER LIBRARIES.
The Board has power to contract with other libraries in accordance with the
following:
1.   Contracting. The Board may contract with any other boards of trustees of
free public libraries, with any other city, school corporation, private or
semiprivate organization, institution of higher learning, township, or County,
or with the trustees of any County library district for the use of the Library
by their respective residents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.5 and Ch. 28E)
2.   Termination. Such a contract may be terminated at any time by mutual
consent of the contracting parties. It also may be terminated by a majority
vote of the electors represented by either of the contracting parties. Such a
termination proposition shall be submitted to the electors by the governing
body of a contracting party on a written petition of not less than five percent
in number of the electors who voted for governor in the territory of the
contracting party at the last general election. The petition must be presented
to the governing body not less than 40 days before the election. The
proposition may be submitted at any election provided by law which is held in
the territory of the party seeking to terminate the contract.
22.07   NONRESIDENT USE.
The Board may authorize the use of the Library by persons not residents of the
City or County in any one or more of the following ways:
1.   Lending. By lending the books or other materials of the Library to
nonresidents on the same terms and conditions as to residents of the City, or
County, or upon payment of a special nonresident Library fee.
2.   Depository. By establishing depositories of Library books or other
materials to be loaned to nonresidents.
3.   Bookmobiles. By establishing bookmobiles or a traveling library so that
books or other Library materials may be loaned to nonresidents.
4.   Branch Library. By establishing branch libraries for lending books or
other Library materials to nonresidents.
22.08   EXPENDITURES.
All money appropriated by the Council for the operation and maintenance of the
Library shall be set aside in an account for the Library. Expenditures shall be
paid for only on orders of the Board, signed by its President and Secretary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.20 and 392.5)
22.09   ANNUAL REPORT.
The Board shall make a report to the Council immediately after the close of the
fiscal year. This report shall contain statements as to the condition of the
Library, the number of books added, the number circulated, the amount of fines
collected, and the amount of money expended in the maintenance of the Library
during the year, together with such further information as may be required by
the Council.
22.10   INJURY TO BOOKS OR PROPERTY.
It is unlawful for a person willfully, maliciously or wantonly to tear, deface,
mutilate, injure or destroy, in whole or in part, any newspaper, periodical,
book, map, pamphlet, chart, picture, or other property belonging to the Library
or reading room.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
22.11   THEFT.
No person shall take possession or control of property of the Library with the
intent to deprive the Library thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
22.12   NOTICE POSTED.
There shall be posted in clear public view within the Library notices informing
the public of the following:
1.   Failure to Return. Failure to return Library materials for two months or
more after the date the person agreed to return the Library materials, or
failure to return Library equipment for one month or more after the date the
person agreed to return the Library equipment, is evidence of intent to deprive
the owner, provided a reasonable attempt, including the mailing by restricted
certified mail of notice that such material or equipment is overdue and
criminal actions will be taken, has been made to reclaim the materials or
equipment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.5)
2.   Detention and Search. Persons concealing Library materials may be detained
and searched pursuant to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 808.12)
CHAPTER 23
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
 
23.01 Planning and Zoning Commission 23.04 Compensation
23.02 Term of Office                 23.05 Powers and Duties
23.03 Vacancies
 
23.01   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
The City Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the
Commission, consists of five members appointed by the Council. The Commission
members shall be residents of the City and shall not hold any elective office
in the City government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6 and 392.1)
23.02   TERM OF OFFICE.
The term of office of the members of the Commission shall be five years. The
terms of not more than two members will expire in any one year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.03   VACANCIES.
If any vacancy exists on the Commission, caused by resignation or otherwise, a
successor for the residue of the term shall be appointed in the same manner as
the original appointee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.04   COMPENSATION.
All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except their
actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
1.   Selection of Officers. The Commission shall choose annually at its first
regular meeting one of its members to act as Chairperson and another as Vice
Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during the
Chairperson’s absence or disability.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
2.   Adopt Rules and Regulations. The Commission shall adopt such rules and
regulations governing its organization and procedure as it may deem necessary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
3.   Zoning. The Commission shall have and exercise all the powers and duties
and privileges in establishing the City zoning regulations and other related
matters and may from time to time recommend to the Council amendments,
supplements, changes, or modifications, all as provided by Chapter 414 of the
Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6)
4.   Recommendations on Improvements. The design and proposed location of
public improvements shall be submitted to the Commission for its
recommendations prior to any actions being taken by the City for the
construction or placement of such improvements. Such requirements and
recommendations shall not act as a stay upon action for any such improvement if
the Commission, after 30 days’ written notice requesting such recommendations,
has failed to file the same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
5.   Review and Comment on Plats. All plans, plats, or re-plats of subdivisions
or re-subdivisions of land in the City or adjacent thereto, laid out in lots or
plats with the streets, alleys, or other portions of the same intended to be
dedicated to the public in the City, shall first be submitted to the Commission
and its recommendations obtained before approval by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
6.   Fiscal Responsibilities. The Commission shall have full, complete, and
exclusive authority to expend, for and on behalf of the City, all sums of money
appropriated to it and to use and expend all gifts, donations, or payments that
are received by the City for City planning and zoning purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
7.   Limitation on Entering Contracts. The Commission shall have no power to
contract debts beyond the amount of its original or amended appropriation as
approved by the Council for the present year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
8.   Annual Report. The Commission shall each year make a report to the Mayor
and Council of its proceedings, with a full statement of its receipts and
disbursements and the progress of its work during the preceding fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
CHAPTER 24
PARK BOARD
 
24.01 Board Established 24.03 Powers and Duties
24.02 Organization
 
24.01   BOARD ESTABLISHED.
There is hereby established a Park Board to advise the Council on the needed
facilities to provide open space such as parks, playgrounds, and similar
community facilities.
24.02   ORGANIZATION.
The Board shall consist of six members, all residents of the City, appointed by
the Mayor with the approval of the Council, for overlapping terms of three
years. The Mayor shall designate the first Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of
the Board, and the Board shall choose its Chairperson and Vice Chairperson
every two years thereafter. Members shall serve without compensation, but may
receive reimbursement for their actual expenses. Vacancies shall be filled in
the same manner as the original appointments.
24.03   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Board shall be advisory to the Council over the properties devoted to
parks, subject to the limitations of expenditures set forth in the annual
budget provided by the Council for park operations.
CHAPTER 25
HOSPITAL BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
 
25.01 Hospital Established      25.07 Annual Report
25.02 Membership                25.08 Discrimination
25.03 Organization              25.09 Gifts
25.04 Powers and Duties         25.10 Depreciation Fund
25.05 Compensation and Expenses 25.11 Lease Authority
25.06 Rules
 
25.01   HOSPITAL ESTABLISHED.
Pursuant to an election held March 25, 1946, the Clarion Community Memorial
Hospital was created under Chapter 37 of the Code of Iowa and authorized to
operate as an instrumentality of the City as provided for by the laws of the
State.
25.02   MEMBERSHIP.
The Board of Commissioners consists of at least five, but not more than seven,
members, appointed by the Council. All of the members of the Board shall be
bona fide residents of Wright County, Iowa, and all shall be over the age of 18
years.
25.03   ORGANIZATION.
All appointments to the Board shall be for three years except to fill
vacancies. Appointments shall be made every year of one-third of the total
number to stagger the terms. The position of any Commissioner shall be vacant
if said Commissioner moves permanently from the City or if said Commissioner is
absent from six consecutive regular meetings of the Board, except in the case
of sickness or temporary absence from the City. Vacancies in the Board shall be
filled by appointment of the Council, and the new Commissioner shall fill out
the unexpired term for which the appointment is made. Commissioners shall
receive no compensation for their services on the Board.
25.04   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Board shall meet and elect from its members a Chairperson, a Secretary, and
such other officers as it deems necessary and shall have and exercise all of
the powers and duties necessary for the management, control, and government of
the City’s hospital.
25.05   COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.
No Commissioner shall receive any compensation for services performed but may
receive reimbursement for any cash expenses actually made for personal expenses
incurred as a Commissioner, but an itemized statement of all expenses and
moneys paid out shall be made under oath by each of the Commissioners and filed
with the Secretary and allowed only by the affirmative vote of the full Board.
25.06   RULES.
The Board shall provide all needed rules for the economic conduct of facilities
under its jurisdiction.
25.07   ANNUAL REPORT.
The Board shall annually prepare a condensed statement of the total receipts
and expenditures for the hospital or health care facility and cause the same to
be published as required by law.
25.08   DISCRIMINATION.
No discrimination in the management of the hospital shall be made against
practitioners of any school of medicine recognized by the laws of the State.
25.09   GIFTS.
As a part of the Board’s authority, it may accept property by gift, devise,
bequest or otherwise; and if the Board deems it advisable, may, at public sale,
sell or exchange any property so accepted upon a concurring vote of a majority
of all members of the Board, and apply the proceeds thereof, or property
received in exchange therefor, to any legitimate hospital purpose.
25.10   DEPRECIATION FUND.
The Board may in its discretion establish a fund for depreciation as a separate
fund. Said funds may be invested in United States Government Bonds and when so
invested the accumulation of interest on the bonds so purchased shall be used
for the purposes of the depreciation fund; an investment when so made shall
remain in United States Government Bonds until such time as, in the judgment of
the Board, it is deemed advisable to use the funds for hospital purposes.
25.11   LEASE AUTHORITY.
The Board of Commissioners (the “Hospital Board”) has been created to serve as
the governing body of the Hospital. The Hospital Board is vested with the
authority to provide for the management, control, administration and government
of the Hospital and the Hospital Board is hereby also granted with the
authority to enter leases, lease purchase agreements or similar documents and
payable from net revenues of the Hospital and necessary for the Hospital to
provide for the operation, furnishing, equipping or any other needs of the
Hospital.
CHAPTER 26
SENIOR HOUSING SYSTEM ENTERPRISE
 
26.01 System Created 26.02 Governing Body
 
26.01   SYSTEM CREATED.
There is hereby created the Senior Housing System of Clarion, Iowa (the “Senior
Housing System”), which shall develop as its first project The Meadows. The
Senior Housing System enterprise and the Hospital enterprise are hereby
combined and shall be operated as a single enterprise to be known as the
“Combined Community Memorial Hospital and Senior Housing System of Clarion”
(the “Combined Enterprise”). The City’s outstanding $635,000.00 Hospital
Refunding Revenue Capital Loan Notes, Series 1991, dated May 1, 1991, which are
by their terms payable from the revenues of the Hospital, are hereby assumed by
the governing body of the Combined Enterprise, subject to all of the terms
established at the time of the original issuance of the Series 1991 Notes by
the City.
26.02   GOVERNING BODY.
The governing body of the Senior Housing System of Clarion shall be the
presently existing Hospital Board of Commissioners which has heretofore acted
as the governing body of the Clarion Community Memorial Hospital pursuant to
the provisions of Section 392.7 of the Code of Iowa. The power and duties of
the Hospital Board of Commissioners are increased to include acting as the
administrative agency of the Combined Enterprise and Senior Housing System
pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 384 and Chapter 392 of the Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 30
POLICE DEPARTMENT
 
30.01 Department Established       30.06 Peace Officers Appointed
30.02 Organization                 30.07 Powers and Duties of Police Chief
30.03 Peace Officer Qualifications 30.08 Departmental Rules
30.04 Required Training            30.09 Summoning Aid
30.05 Compensation                 30.10 Taking Weapons
 
30.01   DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
The Police Department of the City is established to provide for the
preservation of peace and enforcement of law and ordinances within the
corporate limits of the City.
30.02   ORGANIZATION.
The department consists of the Police Chief and such other law enforcement
officers and personnel, whether full or part time, as may be authorized by the
Council.
30.03   PEACE OFFICER QUALIFICATIONS.
In no case shall any person be selected or appointed as a law enforcement
officer unless such person meets the minimum qualification standards
established by the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11)
30.04   REQUIRED TRAINING.
All peace officers shall have received the minimum training required by law at
an approved law enforcement training school within one year of employment.
Peace officers shall also meet the minimum in-service training as required by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11[2])
(501 IAC 3 and 8)
30.05   COMPENSATION.
Members of the department are designated by rank and receive such compensation
as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
30.06   PEACE OFFICERS APPOINTED.
The Mayor shall appoint and dismiss the Police Chief subject to the consent of
a majority of the Council. Other members of the department shall be appointed
by the Mayor with the Police Chief’s recommendation, subject to the consent of
a majority of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
30.07   POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.
The Police Chief has the following powers and duties subject to the approval of
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   General. Perform all duties required of the Police Chief by law or
ordinance.
2.   Enforce Laws. Enforce all laws, ordinances, and regulations and bring all
persons committing any offense before the proper court.
3.   Writs. Execute and return all writs and other processes directed to the
Police Chief.
4.   Accident Reports. Report all motor vehicle accidents investigated to the
State Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.266)
5.   Prisoners. Be responsible for the custody of prisoners, including
conveyance to detention facilities as may be required.
6.   Assist Officials. When requested, provide aid to other City officers,
boards, and commissions in the execution of their official duties.
7.   Investigations. Provide for such investigation as may be necessary for the
prosecution of any person alleged to have violated any law or ordinance.
8.   Record of Arrests. Keep a record of all arrests made in the City by
showing whether said arrests were made under provisions of State law or City
ordinance, the offense charged, who made the arrest, and the disposition of the
charge.
9.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report as
well as such other reports as may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
10.   Command. Be in command of all officers appointed for police work and be
responsible for the care, maintenance, and use of all vehicles, equipment, and
materials of the department.
30.08   DEPARTMENTAL RULES.
The Police Chief shall establish such rules, not in conflict with the Code of
Ordinances, and subject to the approval of the Council, as may be necessary for
the operation of the department.
30.09   SUMMONING AID.
Any peace officer making a legal arrest may orally summon as many persons as
the officer reasonably finds necessary to aid the officer in making the arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.17)
30.10   TAKING WEAPONS.
Any person who makes an arrest may take from the person arrested all items that
are capable of causing bodily harm which the arrested person may have within
such person’s control, to be disposed of according to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.18)
CHAPTER 35
FIRE DEPARTMENT
 
35.01 Establishment and Purpose 35.08 Constitution
35.02 Organization              35.09 Accidental Injury Insurance
35.03 Training                  35.10 Liability Insurance
35.04 Compensation              35.11 Calls Outside City
35.05 Election of Officers      35.12 Mutual Aid
35.06 Duties of Fire Chief      35.13 Authority to Cite Violations
35.07 Obedience to Fire Chief   35.14 Fees
 
35.01   ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
A volunteer fire department is hereby established to prevent and extinguish
fires and to protect lives and property against fires, to promote fire
prevention and fire safety, and to answer all emergency calls for which there
is no other established agency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.16)
35.02   ORGANIZATION.
The department consists of the Fire Chief and such other officers and personnel
as may be authorized by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.03   TRAINING.
All members of the department shall meet the minimum training standards
established by the State Fire Marshal and attend and actively participate in
regular or special training drills or programs as directed by the Fire Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100B.2[4])
35.04   COMPENSATION.
Members of the department shall be designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.05   ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
The department shall elect a Fire Chief and such other officers as its
constitution and bylaws may provide, but the election of the Fire Chief shall
be subject to the approval of the Council. In case of absence of the Fire
Chief, the officer next in rank shall be in charge and have and exercise all
the powers of Fire Chief.
35.06   DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
The Fire Chief shall perform all duties required of the Fire Chief by law or
ordinance, including (but not limited to) the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Enforce Laws. Enforce ordinances and laws regulating fire prevention and
the investigation of the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires.
2.   Technical Assistance. Upon request, give advice concerning private fire
alarm systems, fire extinguishing equipment, fire escapes and exits, and
development of fire emergency plans.
3.   Authority at Fires. When in charge of a fire scene, direct an operation as
necessary to extinguish or control a fire, perform a rescue operation,
investigate the existence of a suspected or reported fire, gas leak, or other
hazardous condition, or take any other action deemed necessary in the
reasonable performance of the department’s duties.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
4.   Control of Scenes. Prohibit an individual, vehicle, or vessel from
approaching a fire scene and remove from the scene any object, vehicle, vessel,
or individual that may impede or interfere with the operation of the Fire
Department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
5.   Authority to Barricade. When in charge of a fire scene, place or erect
ropes, guards, barricades, or other obstructions across a street, alley, right-
of-way, or private property near the location of the fire or emergency so as to
prevent accidents or interference with the firefighting efforts of the Fire
Department, to control the scene until any required investigation is complete,
or to preserve evidence related to the fire or other emergency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.3)
6.   Command. Be charged with the duty of maintaining the efficiency,
discipline, and control of the Fire Department. The members of the Fire
Department shall, at all times, be subject to the direction of the Fire Chief.
7.   Property. Exercise and have full control over the disposition of all fire
apparatus, tools, equipment, and other property used by or belonging to the
Fire Department.
8.   Notification. Whenever death, serious bodily injury, or property damage in
excess of $200,000.00 has occurred as a result of a fire, or if arson is
suspected, notify the State Fire Marshal’s Division immediately. For all other
fires causing an estimated damage of $50.00 or more or emergency responses by
the Fire Department, file a report with the Fire Marshal’s Division within 10
days following the end of the month. The report shall indicate all fire
incidents occurring and state the name of the owners and occupants of the
property at the time of the fire, the value of the property, the estimated
total loss to the property, origin of the fire as determined by investigation,
and other facts, statistics, and circumstances concerning the fire incidents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.2 and 100.3)
9.   Right of Entry. Have the right, during reasonable hours, to enter any
building or premises within the Fire Chief’s jurisdiction for the purpose of
making such investigation or inspection that under law or ordinance may be
necessary to be made and that is reasonably necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.12)
10.   Recommendation. Make such recommendations to owners, occupants,
caretakers, or managers of buildings necessary to eliminate fire hazards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.13)
11.   Assist State Fire Marshal. At the request of the State Fire Marshal, and
as provided by law, aid said marshal in the performance of duties by
investigating, preventing, and reporting data pertaining to fires.
12.   Records. Cause to be kept records of the Fire Department personnel,
firefighting equipment, depreciation of all equipment and apparatus, the number
of responses to alarms, their cause, and location, and an analysis of losses by
value, type, and location of buildings.
13.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report of
the status and activities of the department as well as such other reports as
may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
35.07   OBEDIENCE TO FIRE CHIEF.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of the Fire Chief.
35.08   CONSTITUTION.
The department shall adopt a constitution and bylaws as they deem calculated to
accomplish the object contemplated, and such constitution and bylaws and any
change or amendment to such constitution and bylaws before being effective,
must be approved by the Council.
35.09   ACCIDENTAL INJURY INSURANCE.
The Council shall contract to insure the City against liability for worker’s
compensation and against statutory liability for the costs of hospitalization,
nursing, and medical attention for volunteer firefighters injured in the
performance of their duties as firefighters whether within or outside the
corporate limits of the City. All volunteer firefighters shall be covered by
the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 85.2, 85.61, and Sec. 410.18)
35.10   LIABILITY INSURANCE.
The Council shall contract to insure against liability of the City or members
of the department for injuries, death, or property damage arising out of and
resulting from the performance of departmental duties within or outside the
corporate limits of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.2 and 517A.1)
35.11   CALLS OUTSIDE CITY.
The department shall answer calls to fires and other emergencies outside the
City limits if the Fire Chief determines that such emergency exists and that
such action will not endanger persons and property within the City limits.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
35.12   MUTUAL AID.
Subject to approval by resolution of the Council, the department may enter into
mutual aid agreements with other legally constituted fire departments. Copies
of any such agreements shall be filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
35.13   AUTHORITY TO CITE VIOLATIONS.
Fire officials acting under the authority of Chapter 100 of the Code of Iowa
may issue citations in accordance to Chapter 805 of the Code of Iowa, for
violations of State and/or local fire safety regulations.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.41)
35.14   FEES.
The amount of fees for use of the Fire Department and to whom those fees shall
be charged shall be set by Council resolution. All Fire Department fees and
charges are due upon presentation of a statement for said fees and charges and
shall be paid to the City Clerk. Actions for collection of same shall be
brought in the name of the municipality and in the same manner as other actions
at law.
CHAPTER 36
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SPILLS
 
36.01 Purpose                     36.05 Notifications
36.02 Definitions                 36.06 Police Authority
36.03 Cleanup Required            36.07 Liability
36.04 Liability for Cleanup Costs
 
36.01   PURPOSE.
In order to reduce the danger to the public health, safety, and welfare from
the leaks and spills of hazardous substances, these regulations are promulgated
to establish responsibility for the treatment, removal, and cleanup of
hazardous substance spills within the City limits.
36.02   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Cleanup” means actions necessary to contain, collect, control, identify,
analyze, clean up, treat, disperse, remove, or dispose of a hazardous
substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[1])
2.   “Hazardous condition” means any situation involving the actual, imminent,
or probable spillage, leakage, or release of a hazardous substance onto the
land, into a water of the State, or into the atmosphere which creates an
immediate or potential danger to the public health or safety or to the
environment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[4])
3.   “Hazardous substance” means any substance or mixture of substances that
presents a danger to the public health or safety and includes, but is not
limited to, a substance that is toxic, corrosive, or flammable, or that is an
irritant or that generates pressure through decomposition, heat, or other
means. “Hazardous substance” may include any hazardous waste identified or
listed by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency under the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or any toxic pollutant listed under
Section 307 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1,
1977, or any hazardous substance designated under Section 311 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous
material designated by the Secretary of Transportation under the Hazardous
Materials Transportation Act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[5])
4.   “Responsible person” means a person who at any time produces, handles,
stores, uses, transports, refines, or disposes of a hazardous substance, the
release of which creates a hazardous condition, including bailees, carriers,
and any other person in control of a hazardous substance when a hazardous
condition occurs, whether the person owns the hazardous substance or is
operating under a lease, contract, or other agreement with the legal owner of
the hazardous substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[7])
36.03   CLEANUP REQUIRED.
Whenever a hazardous condition is created by the deposit, injection, dumping,
spilling, leaking, or placing of a hazardous substance, so that the hazardous
substance or a constituent of the hazardous substance may enter the environment
or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including ground
waters, the responsible person shall cause the condition to be remedied by a
cleanup, as defined in the preceding section, as rapidly as feasible to an
acceptable, safe condition. The costs of cleanup shall be borne by the
responsible person. If the responsible person does not cause the cleanup to
begin in a reasonable time in relation to the hazard and circumstances of the
incident, the City may, by an authorized officer, give reasonable notice, based
on the character of the hazardous condition, said notice setting a deadline for
accomplishing the cleanup and stating that the City will proceed to procure
cleanup services and bill the responsible person for all costs associated with
the cleanup if the cleanup is not accomplished within the deadline. In the
event that it is determined that immediate cleanup is necessary as a result of
the present danger to the public health, safety, and welfare, then no notice
shall be required and the City may proceed to procure the cleanup and bill the
responsible person for all costs associated with the cleanup. If the bill for
those services is not paid within 30 days, the City Attorney shall proceed to
obtain payment by all legal means. If the cost of the cleanup is beyond the
capacity of the City to finance it, the authorized officer shall report to the
Council and immediately seek any State or federal funds available for said
cleanup.
36.04   LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS.
The responsible person shall be strictly liable to the City for all of the
following:
1.   The reasonable cleanup costs incurred by the City or the agents of the
City as a result of the failure of the responsible person to clean up a
hazardous substance involved in a hazardous condition.
2.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City or the agents of the City to
evacuate people from the area threatened by a hazardous condition caused by the
person.
3.   The reasonable damages to the City for the injury to, destruction of, or
loss of City property, including parks and roads, resulting from a hazardous
condition caused by that person, including the costs of assessing the injury,
destruction, or loss.
4.   The excessive and extraordinary cost incurred by the City or the agents of
the City in responding at and to the scene of a hazardous condition caused by
that person.
36.05   NOTIFICATIONS.
1.   A person manufacturing, storing, handling, transporting, or disposing of a
hazardous substance shall notify the State Department of Natural Resources and
the Police Chief of the occurrence of a hazardous condition as soon as possible
but not later than six hours after the onset of the hazardous condition or
discovery of the hazardous condition. The Police Chief shall immediately notify
the Department of Natural Resources.
2.   Any other person who discovers a hazardous condition shall notify the
Police Chief, who shall then notify the Department of Natural Resources.
36.06   POLICE AUTHORITY.
If the circumstances reasonably so require, the law enforcement officer or an
authorized representative may:
1.   Evacuate persons from their homes to areas away from the site of a
hazardous condition, and
2.   Establish perimeters or other boundaries at or near the site of a
hazardous condition and limit access to cleanup personnel.
No person shall disobey an order of any law enforcement officer issued under
this section.
36.07   LIABILITY.
The City shall not be liable to any person for claims of damages, injuries, or
losses resulting from any hazardous condition, unless the City is the
responsible person as defined in Section
36.02(4).
CHAPTER 37
AMBULANCE SERVICE
 
37.01 Ambulance and Emergency Service 37.04 Fees
37.02 Staffing                        37.05 Payment
37.03 Bylaws, Rules, and Regulations  37.06 Collection
 
37.01   AMBULANCE AND EMERGENCY SERVICE.
A department is hereby created and shall be known as the Clarion Ambulance
Service, which shall have the authority to equip an ambulance and rescue unit
in the manner agreed upon with the Council.
37.02   STAFFING.
The Council shall by resolution designate the department or organization
responsible for manning and operating the ambulance service.
37.03   BYLAWS, RULES, AND REGULATIONS.
The service shall submit to the Council for approval bylaws and/or rules and
regulations for the operation of the service that are in accordance with
Council standards, rules, and regulations and all applicable State and Federal
laws, rules, and regulations. The rules and regulations shall include and shall
not be limited to provisions governing emergencies having priority over
transfers and service being provided outside the City limits.
37.04   FEES.
Ambulance services shall be furnished at the rates which shall be from time to
time fixed by the Council by resolution.
37.05   PAYMENT.
All fees and charges for ambulance services are due to the City upon
presentation of a statement for the services.
37.06   COLLECTION.
After reasonable notice, the City may cause a suit to be brought for the
collection of any fees or charges for services provided.
CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC PEACE
 
40.01 Assault    40.03 Disorderly Conduct
40.02 Harassment 40.04 Failure to Disperse
 
40.01   ASSAULT.
No person shall, without justification, commit any of the following:
1.   Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to cause pain or injury to
another or that is intended to result in physical contact that will be
insulting or offensive to another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute
the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[1])
2.   Threat of Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to place another in
fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting,
or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[2])
An act described in Subsections 1 and 2 shall not be an assault under the
following circumstances: (i) if the person doing any of the enumerated acts,
and such other person, are voluntary participants in a sport, social or other
activity, not in itself criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable
incident of such sport or activity, and does not create an unreasonable risk of
serious injury or breach of the peace; (ii) if the person doing any of the
enumerated acts is employed by a school district or accredited nonpublic
school, or is an area education agency staff member who provides services to a
school or school district, and intervenes in a fight or physical struggle or
other disruptive situation that takes place in the presence of the employee or
staff member performing employment duties in a school building, on school
grounds, or at an official school function, regardless of the location, whether
the fight or physical struggle or other disruptive situation is between
students or other individuals, if the degree and the force of the intervention
is reasonably necessary to restore order and to protect the safety of those
assembled.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1)
40.02   HARASSMENT.
No person shall commit harassment.
1.   A person commits harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy, or
alarm another person, the person does any of the following:
   A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing, or via
electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner likely to
cause the other person annoyance or harm.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   B.   Places any simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in or
near any building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or railroad car, or boat
occupied by the other person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be
delivered to another, without such other person’s knowledge or consent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law enforcement
authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing that the
information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal act,
knowing the same did not occur.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
2.   A person commits harassment when the person, purposefully and without
legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another person, with the intent
to threaten, intimidate or alarm that other person. As used in this section,
unless the context otherwise requires, “personal contact” means an encounter in
which two or more people are in visual or physical proximity to each other.
“Personal contact” does not require a physical touching or oral communication,
although it may include these types of contacts.
40.03   DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
No person shall do any of the following:
1.   Fighting. Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place or in
or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that participants in athletic
contests may engage in such conduct that is reasonably related to that sport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1a])
2.   Noise. Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence or
public building which intentionally or recklessly causes unreasonable distress
to the occupants thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1b])
3.   Abusive Language. Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture
that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent
reaction by another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1c])
4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly. Without lawful authority or color of authority,
disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct intended to
disrupt the meeting or assembly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1d])
5.   False Report of Catastrophe. By words or action, initiate or circulate a
report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe, knowing such report
to be false or such warning to be baseless.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1e])
6.   Disrespect of Flag. Knowingly and publicly use the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault. As used in this
subsection:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1f])
   A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.
   B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.
   C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material designed to be
flown from a pole or mast.
   D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to make
imperfect.
   E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or trample.
   F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or intentionally cause a
machine, vehicle, or animal to tread upon.
7.   Funeral or Memorial Service. Within 1,000 feet of the building or other
location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or within
1,000 feet of a funeral procession or burial:
   A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.
   B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the person
knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent reaction by
another.
   C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral procession,
or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial
service, funeral procession, or burial.
This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)
40.04   FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
A peace officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly or
persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to disperse.
No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to obey.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3)
CHAPTER 41
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
41.01 Distributing Dangerous Substances                  41.09 Antenna and
                                                         Radio Wires
41.02 False Reports to or Communications with Public     41.10 Barbed Wire and
Safety Entities                                          Electric Fences
41.03 Providing False Identification Information         41.11 Discharging
                                                         Weapons
41.04 Refusing to Assist Officer                         41.12 Throwing and
                                                         Shooting
41.05 Harassment of Public Officers and Employees        41.13 Urinating and
                                                         Defecating
41.06 Interference with Official Acts                    41.14 Fireworks
41.07 Removal of an Officer’s Communication or Control 41.15 Drug
Device                                                   Paraphernalia
41.08 Abandoned or Unattended Refrigerators              41.16 Failure to
                                                         Assist
 
41.01   DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any corrosive,
caustic, poisonous or other injurious substance unless the person delivers such
into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes reasonable precautions
that the substance will not be taken by children or animals from the place
where the substance is deposited.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)
41.02   FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.
No person shall do any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)
1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire department, a
law enforcement authority, or other public safety entity, knowing that the
information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a criminal act
knowing the act did not occur.
2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that he or she
is not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information or
assistance.
3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.
41.03   PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to anyone
known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is
within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency
medical care provider, or firefighter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)
41.04   REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make an
arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required. No person shall unreasonably and without lawful cause,
refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)
41.05   HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer or
employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)
41.06   INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.
No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to be a
peace officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider under Chapter 147A of
the Code of Iowa, medical examiner, or firefighter, whether paid or volunteer,
or a person performing bailiff duties pursuant to Section 602.1303[4] of the
Code of Iowa, in the performance of any act that is within the scope of the
lawful duty or authority of that officer, jailer, emergency medical care
provider, medical examiner, or firefighter, or person performing bailiff
duties, or shall knowingly resist or obstruct the service or execution by any
authorized person of any civil or criminal process or order of any court. The
terms “resist” and “obstruct” as used in this section do not include verbal
harassment unless the verbal harassment is accompanied by a present ability and
apparent intention to execute a verbal threat physically.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)
41.07   REMOVAL OF AN OFFICER’S COMMUNICATION OR CONTROL DEVICE.
No person shall knowingly or intentionally remove or attempt to remove a
communication device or any device used for control from the possession of a
peace officer or correctional officer, when the officer is in the performance
of any act which is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that
officer and the person knew or should have known the individual to be an
officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.12)
41.08   ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.
No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings on
premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended and so
accessible to children.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)
41.09   ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.
It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground, or public building without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.10   BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City limits without the written consent of the Council unless
such land consists of 10 acres or more and is used as agricultural land.
41.11   DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
1.   It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns, or other firearms of any kind within the City limits except by
written consent of the Council.
2.   No person shall intentionally discharge a firearm in a reckless manner.
41.12   THROWING AND SHOOTING.
It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks, or missiles of any kind or
to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, BB guns, or
other dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground, or public building, without written
consent of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.13   URINATING AND DEFECATING.
It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk, street,
alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building, including
but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway, doorway, or
window thereof, or onto any public or private land.
41.14   FIREWORKS.
The sale, use, and exploding of fireworks within the City are subject to the
following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.2)
1.   Definition. The term “fireworks” includes any explosive composition, or
combination of explosive substances, or articles prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or
detonation, and specifically includes blank cartridges, firecrackers,
torpedoes, skyrockets, roman candles, or other fireworks of like construction
and any fireworks containing any explosive or flammable compound, or other
device containing any explosive substance.
2.   Regulations. Within the City limits the following consumer fireworks shall
be allowed:
   A.   “First Class Consumer Fireworks” as described in APA 87-1, Chapter 3:
      (1)   Chasers.
      (2)   Firecrackers.
      (3)   Roman candles.
      (4)   Multiple tube devices under this subsection that are manufactured
in accordance with APA 87-1, Section 3.5.
   B.   “Second Class Consumer Fireworks” as described in APA 87-1, Chapter 3:
      (1)   Cone fountains.
      (2)   Cylindrical fountains.
      (3)   Flitter sparklers.
      (4)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices, including multiple tube
ground and hand-held sparkling devices that are manufactured in accordance with
APA 87-1, Section 3.5.
      (5)   Ground spinners.
      (6)   Illuminating torches.
      (7)   Toy smoke devices that are not classified as novelties pursuant to
APA 87-1, Section 3.2
      (8)   Wheels.
      (9)   Wire or dipped sparklers that are not classified as novelties
pursuant to APA 87-1, Section 3.2.
3.   Date limitations. A person shall not use or explode first class consumer
fireworks on days other than:
   A.   The Friday before July 4 through the Sunday following July 4 and;
   B.   December 24 through January 3 of each year, all dates inclusive.
4.   Times. A person shall not use or explode first class consumer fireworks at
times other than between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., except that on
the following dates first class consumer fireworks shall not be used at times
other than between the hours specified:
   A.   Between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on July 4 and the
Saturdays and Sundays immediately preceding and following July 4.
   B.   Between the hours of 9:00 a.m. on December 31 and 12:30 a.m. on the
immediately following day.
   C.   Between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on the Saturdays and
Sundays immediately preceding and following December 31.
5.   A person shall not use consumer fireworks on real property other than that
person’s real property or on the real property of a person who has consented to
the use of consumer fireworks on that property. A person who violates this
subsection commits a simple misdemeanor. A court shall not order imprisonment
for violation of this subsection.
6.   Exceptions. This section does not prohibit the sale by a resident, dealer,
manufacturer, or jobber of such fireworks as are not prohibited; or the sale of
any kind of fireworks if they are to be shipped out of State; or the sale or
use of blank cartridges for a show or theatre, or for signal purposes in
athletic sports or by railroads or trucks for signal purposes, or by a
recognized military organization. This section does not apply to any substance
or composition prepared and sold for medicinal or fumigation purposes.
41.15   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 124.414)
1.   As used in this section “drug paraphernalia” means all equipment, products
or materials of any kind used or attempted to be used in combination with a
controlled substance, except those items used in combination with the lawful
use of a controlled substance, to knowingly or intentionally and primarily do
any of the following:
   A.   Manufacture a controlled substance.
   B.   Inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance.
   C.   Test the strength, effectiveness, or purity of a controlled substance.
   D.   Enhance the effect of a controlled substance.
Drug paraphernalia does not include hypodermic needles or syringes if
manufactured, delivered, sold, or possessed for a lawful purpose.
2.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally manufacture,
deliver, sell, or possess drug paraphernalia.
41.16   FAILURE TO ASSIST.
A person who reasonably believes another person is suffering from a risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death shall, if the person is able,
attempt to contact local law enforcement or local emergency response
authorities, if doing so does not place the person or other person at risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death. No person shall without
lawful cause violate the provisions of this section. A person shall not be
required to contact local law enforcement or emergency response authorities if
the person knows or reasonably believes that the other person is not in need of
help or assistance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.12)
CHAPTER 42
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 
42.01 Trespassing                       42.05 Fraud
42.02 Criminal Mischief                 42.06 Theft
42.03 Defacing Proclamations or Notices 42.07 Other Public Property Offenses
42.04 Unauthorized Entry
 
42.01   TRESPASSING.
1.   Prohibited. It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the
property of another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.8)
2.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[1])
   A.   “Property” includes any land, dwelling, building, conveyance, vehicle,
or other temporary or permanent structure, whether publicly or privately owned.
   B.   “Public utility” is a public utility as defined in Section 476.1 of the
Code of Iowa or an electric transmission line as provided in Chapter 478 of the
Code of Iowa.
   C.   “Public utility property” means any land, dwelling, building,
conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased,
or operated by a public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical
barrier of any kind.
   D.   “Railway corporation” means a corporation, company, or person owning,
leasing, or operating any railroad in whole or in part within this State.
   E.   “Railway property” means all tangible real and personal property owned,
leased, or operated by a railway corporation, with the exception of any
administrative building or offices of the railway corporation.
   F.   “Trespass” means one or more of the following acts:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2a])
      (1)   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of the
owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense or to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate.
      (2)   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any peace officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to supervise
the use or maintenance of the property.
      (3)   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect of
unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
      (4)   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing therefrom,
altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein anything animate
or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the owner, lessee, or
person in lawful possession.
      (5)   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property. This paragraph does not apply to passage over
a railroad right-of-way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct, bridge,
trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not been
notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right-of-way or to
vacate the right-of-way and the passage over the right-of-way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
      (6)   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without
lawful authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns,
leases, or operates the public utility property. This paragraph does not apply
to passage over public utility right-of-way by a person if the person has not
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering onto the right-of-way or to vacate the right-of-way.
3.   Specific Exceptions. “Trespass” does not mean either of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2b])
   A.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another, provided that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property.
This paragraph does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
   B.   Entering upon the right-of-way of a public road or highway.
42.02   CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter, or destroy property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.03   DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down, or
destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of
the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement, or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or by
order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.04   UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises, or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises or grounds are closed and not open to the public. When open
to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also constitutes an
unauthorized entry.
42.05   FRAUD.
It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice as defined in
Section 714.8 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.8)
42.06   THEFT.
It is unlawful for any person to commit theft as defined in Section 714.1 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
42.07   OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other activities or conditions that are also deemed
to be public property offenses:
1.   
Chapter 22 – Library
   A.   Section
22.10 – Injury to Books or Property
   B.   Section
22.11 – Theft of Library Property
2.   
Chapter 105 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling
   A.   Section
105.08 – Littering Prohibited
3.   
Chapter 135 – Street Use and Maintenance
   A.   Section
135.01 – Removal of Warning Devices
   B.   Section
135.02 – Obstructing or Defacing
   C.   Section
135.03 – Placing Debris On
   D.   Section
135.04 – Playing In
   E.   Section
135.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
   F.   Section
135.08 – Burning Prohibited
   G.   Section
135.12 – Dumping of Snow
4.   
Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations
   A.   Section
136.11 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements
   B.   Section
136.14 – Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
   C.   Section
136.15 – Defacing
   D.   Section
136.16 – Debris on Sidewalks
   E.   Section
136.17 – Merchandise Display
   F.   Section
136.18 – Sales Stands
CHAPTER 45
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION
 
45.01 Persons Under Legal Age 45.03 Open Containers in Motor Vehicles
45.02 Public Consumption or
Intoxication
 
45.01   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
As used in this section, “legal age” means 21 years of age or more.
1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase, consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic beverages in their
possession or control; except in the case of any alcoholic beverage given or
dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence, and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages during the regular course of the
person’s employment by a liquor control licensee, or wine or beer permittee
under State laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[2])
2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age for the
purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage from any
liquor control licensee or wine or beer permittee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[3])
45.02   PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.
1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
   A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the Code of Iowa
and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of the Code of
Iowa.
   B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath, or urine to
determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person using devices
and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   C.   “Peace officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4 of the Code
of Iowa.
   D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion of a public
or private school that provides teaching for any grade from kindergarten
through grade twelve.
2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer upon the
public streets or highways. A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor
in any public place, except premises covered by a liquor control license. A
person shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine, or beer on public
school property or while attending any public or private school-related
function. A person shall not be intoxicated in a public place.
3.   A person shall not simulate intoxication in a public place.
4.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public intoxication
under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person that the person
may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own expense. If a device
approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for testing a sample of a
person’s breath to determine the person’s blood alcohol concentration is
available, that is the only test that need be offered the person arrested. In a
prosecution for public intoxication, evidence of the results of a chemical test
performed under this subsection is admissible upon proof of a proper
foundation. The percentage of alcohol present in a person’s blood, breath, or
urine established by the results of a chemical test performed within two hours
after the person’s arrest on a charge of public intoxication is presumed to be
the percentage of alcohol present at the time of arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)
45.03   OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
[See Section
62.01(50) and (51) of this Code of Ordinances.]
CHAPTER 46
MINORS
 
46.01 Cigarettes and Tobacco 46.02 Contributing to Delinquency
 
46.01   CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO.
It is unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to smoke, use, possess,
purchase, or attempt to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes. Possession of tobacco,
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes
by an individual under 21 years of age shall not constitute a violation of this
section if the individual under 21 years of age possesses the tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes as part
of the person’s employment and said person is employed by a person who holds a
valid permit under Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or who lawfully offers for
sale or sells cigarettes or tobacco products.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2)
46.02   CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY.
It is unlawful for any person to encourage any child under 18 years of age to
commit any act of delinquency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 709A.1)
CHAPTER 47
PARK REGULATIONS
 
47.01 Purpose                47.05 Parks Closed
47.02 Use of Drives Required 47.06 Camping
47.03 Fires                  47.07 Loitering
47.04 Littering
 
47.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the enjoyment of park facilities
by the general public by establishing rules and regulations governing the use
of park facilities.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12)
47.02   USE OF DRIVES REQUIRED.
No person shall drive any car, cycle, or other vehicle, or ride or lead any
horse, in any portion of a park except upon the established drives or roadways
therein or such other places as may be officially designated by the City.
47.03   FIRES.
No fire shall be built, except in a place designated for such purpose, and such
fire shall be extinguished before leaving the area unless it is to be
immediately used by some other party.
47.04   LITTERING.
No person shall place, deposit, or throw any waste, refuse, litter, or foreign
substance in any area or receptacle except those provided for that purpose.
47.05   PARKS CLOSED.
No person, except those camping in designated areas, shall enter or remain
within any park between the hours of 10:30 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.
47.06   CAMPING.
No person shall camp in any portion of a park except in portions prescribed or
designated by the Council, and the City may refuse camping privileges or
rescind any and all camping privileges for cause.
47.07   LOITERING.
It is unlawful for any person to congregate, stand, loaf, or loiter in any City
park during the hours in which the park is closed.
CHAPTER 48
AQUATIC CENTER REGULATIONS
 
48.01 Supervision           48.05 Pool Funds
48.02 Rules and Regulations 48.06 Use of Pool
48.03 Schedule of Charges   48.07 Prohibited Acts
48.04 Opening and Closing   48.08 Additional Regulations
 
48.01   SUPERVISION.
The Clarion Municipal Aquatic Center is under the supervision and control of
the City Council at all times.
48.02   RULES AND REGULATIONS.
The Council may establish and prescribe rules and regulations for the conduct,
management, and operation of the Aquatic Center and premises adjacent thereto.
48.03   SCHEDULE OF CHARGES.
The Council may from time to time fix, establish, and collect a schedule of
charges for the use of the Aquatic Center, and the funds therefrom shall be
used in connection with the maintenance and operation of the Aquatic Center.
48.04   OPENING AND CLOSING.
The City Administrator and Aquatic Center Manager shall approve the opening and
closing of the swimming season and shall provide for the care and maintenance
of the Aquatic Center, bathhouse, and adjacent premises at all times for the
purpose of protection thereof.
48.05   POOL FUNDS.
All funds derived from the operation of the Aquatic Center shall be paid to the
Clerk and deposited into the General Fund.
48.06   USE OF POOL.
The Aquatic Center shall be open to the public during the Aquatic Center hours.
All additional uses of the Aquatic Center shall be approved by management.
48.07   PROHIBITED ACTS.
It is unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any property located on the
Aquatic Center premises, or to loiter thereon, or to violate any rules or
regulations of the Council pertaining to the operation and management of the
Aquatic Center or bathhouse or any rules or regulations of the State Department
of Health.
48.08   ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
Additional regulations are contained in the Aquatic Center Policy approved by
the Council.
CHAPTER 49
SOCIAL HOST
 
49.01 Purpose; Findings 49.04 Exceptions
49.02 Definitions       49.05 Enforcement
49.03 Prohibited Acts   49.06 Violations
 
49.01   PURPOSE; FINDINGS.
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public interest, welfare, health,
and safety within the City by prohibiting the services to and consumption of
alcoholic beverages by persons under the age of 21 at premises located in the
City. The City Council finds that the occurrence of social gatherings at
premises where alcoholic beverages are served to or consumed by persons under
the age of 21 is harmful to such persons themselves and a threat to public
welfare, health, and safety. The City Council further finds that persons under
the age of 21 often obtain alcoholic beverages at such gatherings and that
persons who are in control of such premises know or have reason to know of such
service and/or consumption and will be more likely to ensure that alcoholic
beverages are neither served or consumed by persons under the age of 21 at
these gatherings. Based on these findings, the City Council has deemed it
necessary to enact the following regulations in the City.
49.02   DEFINITIONS.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
1.   “Alcoholic beverage” means any beverage containing more than one-half of
one percent of alcohol by volume including alcoholic liquor, wine, and beer.
2.   “Emergency responders” means firefighters, law enforcement officers,
emergency medical service personnel, and other personnel having emergency
response duties.
3.   “Enforcement Services” means the salaries and benefits of emergency
responders for the amount of time actually spent responding to or remaining at
an event, gathering, or party and administrative costs attributable to the
incident; the actual costs for medical treatment for any injured emergency
responder, and the costs of repairing any damage to equipment or vehicles.
4.   Event, gathering, or party” means any group of three or more persons who
have assembled or gathered together for a social occasion or other activity
where an underage person has consumed or possessed an alcoholic beverage.
5.   Parent” means any person having legal custody of a juvenile: (i) as
natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent; (ii) as a legal guardian; or,
(iii) as a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the court.
6.   “Person” means any individual, partnership, corporation, or any
association of one or more individuals.
7.   “Premises” means any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment,
condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting
room, park, or any other place of assembly, public or private, whether occupied
on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or
specifically for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased,
rented, or used with or without permission or compensation.
8.   “Social host” means any person who aids, conducts, allows, entertains,
organizes, supervises, controls, or permits an event, gathering, or party. This
includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   The persons who owns, rents, leases, or otherwise has control of the
premises where the event, gathering, or party takes place;
   B.   The persons in charge of the premises; or,
   C.   The persons who organized the event.
If the social host is a juvenile, then the parents of that juvenile will be
jointly and severally liable for any violation of this chapter.
9.   “Underage person” means any individual under the age of 21.
49.03   PROHIBITED ACTS.
It is unlawful for any social host to host an event, gathering, or party on
premises when the person knows or reasonably should know that an underage
person has consumed an alcoholic beverage, or possessed an alcoholic beverage
with the intent to consume it, and the person fails to take reasonable steps to
prevent the possession or consumption by the underage person. A social host who
hosts such an event, gathering, or party does not have to be present at the
time the prohibited act occurs.
49.04   EXCEPTIONS.
This chapter does not apply to conduct solely between an underage person and
his or her parents while present in the parents’ household, to legally
protected religious observances, and to situations where underage persons are
lawfully in possession of alcoholic beverages during the course and scope of
employment.
49.05   ENFORCEMENT.
The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by officers of the Police
Department. The Police Department shall have primary but not exclusive
enforcement responsibility for this chapter.
49.06   VIOLATIONS.
Violations of this chapter are declared to be municipal infractions pursuant to
Chapter 4 of this Code of Ordinances. A $500.00 civil penalty shall be imposed
for a social host’s first offense. A $750.00 civil penalty shall be imposed for
a social host’s second offense. A $1,000.00 civil penalty shall be imposed for
a social host’s third or subsequent offense. In addition, the City may seek
reimbursement for enforcement services provided by emergency responders related
to the event, gathering, or party. Multiple violations of this chapter may be
considered by the City for purposes of approving licenses applied for by the
social host, or for any other requirements that are subject to approval by the
City.
CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
 
50.01 Definition of Nuisance 50.05 Nuisance Abatement
50.02 Nuisances Enumerated   50.06 Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice
50.03 Other Conditions       50.07 Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure
50.04 Nuisances Prohibited
 
50.01   DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.
Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is a
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
50.02   NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions that are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)
1.   Offensive Smells. Erecting, continuing, or using any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture that, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort, or property
of individuals or the public.
2.   Filth or Noisome Substance. Causing or suffering any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of
others.
3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River. Obstructing or impeding without legal
authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or collection of water.
4.   Water Pollution. Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the water
of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its
natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.
5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways. Obstructing or encumbering, by fences,
buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets, alleys,
commons, landing places, or burying grounds.
6.   Billboards. Billboards, signboards, and advertising signs, whether erected
and constructed on public or private property, that so obstruct and impair the
view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway, boulevard, or
alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render dangerous the use
thereof. (See also Section
62.06) 
7.   Storing of Flammable Junk. Depositing or storing of flammable junk, such
as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones and paper, by dealers in such
articles within the fire limits of the City, unless in a building of fireproof
construction. (See also
Chapter 51) 
8.   Air Pollution. Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes, or fly ash.
9.   Weeds, Brush. Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush, or other vegetation
in the City so as to constitute a health, safety, or fire hazard.
10.   Dutch Elm Disease. Trees infected with Dutch elm disease. (See also
Chapter 151)
11.   Airport Air Space. Any object or structure hereafter erected within 1,000
feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or landing
place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation including take-off and
landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use or enjoyment
of the land on which the same is located.
12.   Houses of Ill Fame. Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the Code
of Iowa or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or houses
where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, or breaches of the peace are carried
on or permitted to the disturbance of others.
50.03   OTHER CONDITIONS.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other conditions that are deemed to be nuisances:
1.   Junk and Junk Vehicles (See
Chapter 51)
2.   Grass and Weeds (See
Chapter 52)
3.   Parking on Yards (See
Chapter 69)
4.   Storage and Disposal of Solid Waste (See
Chapter 105)
5.   Dangerous Buildings (See
Chapter 145)
6.   Trees (See
Chapter 151)
50.04   NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance, public
or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter or State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)
50.05   NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section
50.06 of this chapter or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in
Section
50.07. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
50.06   ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.
Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner. The notice to abate shall contain: †
4   
   A.   Description of Nuisance. A description of what constitutes the
nuisance.
   B.   Location of Nuisance. The location of the nuisance.
   C.   Acts Necessary to Abate. A statement of the act or acts necessary to
abate the nuisance.
   D.   Reasonable Time. A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
   E.   Assessment of City Costs. A statement that if the nuisance or condition
is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within the time
prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against the property
owner.
2.   Method of Service. The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or sent
by certified mail to the property owner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
3.   Request for Hearing. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the respective Council committee as to whether a nuisance exists.
A request for a hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Clerk
within the time stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that
a nuisance exists and it must be abated as ordered. The findings of the Council
shall be conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered
abated within a reasonable time under the circumstances.
4.   Abatement in Emergency. If it is determined that an emergency exists by
reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the City may
perform any action that may be required under this chapter without prior
notice. The City shall assess the costs as provided in Subsection 6 of this
section after notice to the property owner under the applicable provisions of
Subsections 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in Subsection 3.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
5.   Abatement by City. If the person notified to abate a nuisance or condition
neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the required
action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred. The
itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall pay such
expenses on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
6.   Collection of Costs. The Clerk shall send a statement of the total expense
incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has failed to abide by the
notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not been paid
within one month, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the County Treasurer and
such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same manner as, general
property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement. If the amount expended to abate
the nuisance or condition exceeds $500.00, the City may permit the assessment
to be paid in up to 10 annual installments, to be paid in the same manner and
with the same interest rates provided for assessments against benefited
property under State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)
8.   Failure to Abate. Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who shall
fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time required
and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: A suggested form of notice for the abatement of nuisances is
  included in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use
  of this administrative abatement procedure, particularly where cost of abatement
4 is more than minimal or where there is doubt as to whether or not a nuisance does
  in fact exist. If compliance is not secured following notice and hearings, we
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before proceeding with
  abatement and assessment of costs. Your attorney may recommend proceedings in
  court under Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa rather than this procedure.
50.07   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section
50.06, the requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures
applicable to municipal infractions as set forth in
Chapter 4 of this Code of Ordinances and/or may be subject to penalties under
1.14 of this Code of Ordinances.   
(Section 50.07 – Ord. 627 – Nov. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 51
JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES
 
51.01 Purpose                           51.04 Junk and Junk Vehicles a Nuisance
51.02 Definitions                       51.05 Towing and Impounding
51.03 Junk and Junk Vehicles Prohibited 51.06 Exceptions
 
51.01   PURPOSE.
It is the purpose of this chapter to:
1.   Decrease the likelihood of criminal conduct associated with junk vehicles;
and,
2.   Enhance the aesthetic qualities of the City; and,
3.   Conserve and stabilize property values; and,
4.   Reduce the inherent public health and safety problems associated with junk
vehicles; and,
5.   Prevent overcrowding of land.
51.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or used lumber, salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles, machinery and
appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery or appliances; iron, steel or
other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass, tinware, plastic
or old or discarded household goods or hardware. Neatly stacked firewood
located on a side yard or a rear yard is not considered junk.
2.   “Junk vehicle” means any vehicle which has any of the following
characteristics:
   A.   Broken Glass. Any vehicle with a broken or cracked windshield, window,
headlight or tail light, or any other cracked or broken glass.
   B.   Broken, Loose, or Missing Part. Any vehicle with a broken, loose, or
missing fender, door, bumper, hood, steering wheel, or trunk lid.
   C.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects. Any vehicle that has become
the habitat for rats, mice, snakes, or any other vermin or insects.
   D.   Inoperable. Any motor vehicle that lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural parts, rendering said motor vehicle totally
inoperable, or that cannot be started or moved under its own power or has not
been used as an operating vehicle for a period of 30 days or more.
   E.   Defective or Obsolete Condition. Any vehicle that, because of its
defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat to the
public health and safety.
Mere licensing of such vehicle shall not constitute a defense to the finding
that the vehicle is a junk vehicle.
3.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, except devices moved
by human power, and includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile,
truck, motorcycle, tractor, buggy, wagon, farm implement, or any combination
thereof.
51.03   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or allow to remain on any
private property within the corporate limits of the City any junk or junk
vehicle.
51.04   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES A NUISANCE.
It is hereby declared that any junk or junk vehicle located upon private
property, unless excepted by Section
51.06 of this chapter, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of the
citizens and is a nuisance within the meaning of Section 657.1 of the Code of
Iowa. If any junk or junk vehicle is kept upon private property in violation
thereof, the owner of or person occupying the property upon which it is located
shall be prima facie liable for said violation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
51.05   TOWING AND IMPOUNDING.
Any junk vehicle nuisance not abated within seven calendar days after the date
of citation may be deemed an abandoned vehicle as defined in the Code of Iowa.
Such junk vehicles shall be towed and impounded at the owner’s expense.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89)
51.06   EXCEPTIONS.
The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any junk or a junk vehicle
stored within:
1.   Structure. A garage or other enclosed structure; or
2.   Salvage Yard. An auto salvage yard or junkyard lawfully operated within
the City and fully surrounded by a fence not less than 72 inches in height
which acts as a visual obstruction. Any such auto salvage yard shall be
properly licensed as an authorized vehicle recycler as required by the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.H)
CHAPTER 52
GRASS AND WEEDS
 
52.01 Purpose                        52.07 Mowing in the Street
52.02 Definitions                    52.08 Procedures and Requirements
52.03 Cutting Specifications and     52.09 Application for Exception Permit
Standards of Practice
52.04 Uniform Height Specifications  52.10 Procedures
52.05 Noxious Weeds                  52.11 Standards
52.06 Abatement Notice and Procedure
 
52.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to beautify and preserve the appearance of the
City by requiring property owners and occupants to maintain grass lawns at a
uniform height within the boundaries of their property and on abutting street
right-of-way in order to prevent unsightly, offensive, or nuisance conditions.
52.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Curb,” “curb line,” or “curbing” means the outer boundaries of a street
at the edge of that portion of the street usually traveled by vehicular
traffic.
2.   “Cut” or “mow” means to mechanically maintain the growth of grass, weeds
or brush at a uniform height.
3.   “Owner” means a person owning private property in the City and any person
occupying private property in the City.
4.   “Parking” means that part of a street, avenue, or highway in the City not
covered by a sidewalk and lying between the lot line or property line and the
curb line or, on unpaved streets, that part of the street lying between the lot
line or property line and that portion of the street usually traveled by
vehicular traffic.
52.03   CUTTING SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS OF PRACTICE.
1.   Every owner shall cut, mow, and maintain all grass, weeds, and brush upon
the owner’s property and adjacent to the curb line or outer boundary of any
street, which shall include the parking area abutting the owner’s property, to
a uniform height as defined in Section
52.04 of this chapter.
2.   Every owner shall cut, mow, and maintain grass, weeds, and brush adjacent
to the curb line, including the parking area abutting the owner’s property, in
such a manner so as to be in conformity with and at an even height with all
other grass, weeds or brush growing on the remainder of the owner’s property.
52.04   UNIFORM HEIGHT SPECIFICATIONS.
Grass, weeds, and brush shall be cut, mowed, and maintained so as not to exceed
the following height specifications:
1.   Developed residential, business, and industrial areas — not to exceed
eight inches.
2.   Infill residential lots — not to exceed eight inches.
3.   Undeveloped residential areas — not to exceed 10 inches.
4.   Agriculture Areas — not to exceed 15 inches.
52.05   NOXIOUS WEEDS.
1.   Every property owner shall cut and control noxious weeds upon the owner’s
property and adjacent to the curb line or outer boundary of any street, which
shall include the parking area abutting the owner’s property, by cutting
noxious weeds to ground level. The use of herbicides to eliminate or eradicate
such weeds shall not appropriately abate the nuisance if the subject vegetation
is in violation of the height limit.
2.   Noxious weeds include any weed growth or plant designated as noxious by
the State Department of Natural Resources rules and regulations or by the Code
of Iowa.
52.06   ABATEMENT NOTICE AND PROCEDURE.
Annual publication of
Chapter 52 of this Code in an official newspaper shall serve as notice to
property owners.
1.   Upon discovery of the first violation of this chapter per subdivided lot
within a mowing year, a notice shall be posted upon the property and shall
include the following information:
   A.   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
   B.   The location of the nuisance;
   C.   Acts necessary to abate the nuisance;
   D.   A reasonable time within which to complete the abatement, not to exceed
five calendar days; and
   E.   A statement that if the nuisance or condition is not abated as directed
and within the time prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs
against the property owner.
2.   After the reasonable time period for the initial violation has passed, the
City shall abate the nuisance without further notice.
3.   Subsequent violations per subdivided lot in a mowing year shall not
require notice prior to the City’s abatement of the nuisance.
4.   The City may abate the nuisance itself or by hiring an independent
contractor. Independent contractors shall be paid upon their completion and
submission of an invoice, regardless of whether the cost has been received from
the property owner. Abatement charges shall be established by resolution of the
Council.
5.   Collection of Costs. The Clerk shall send a statement of the total expense
incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has failed to abide by the
notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not been paid
within one month, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the County Treasurer and
such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same manner as, general
property taxes. Revenues, other than independent contractor costs, shall be
deposited 50 percent in a revenue account for the Police Department, and 50
percent to a revenue account for the Parks Department.
6.   The Mayor shall be responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
Additionally, all sworn officers in the Police Department are authorized to
post notices and submit abatement work orders to the Director of Public Works,
who shall direct his department or an independent contractor to abate the
nuisance within four calendar days of the discovery of the violation, or for
initial violations within four calendar days of the expiration of the
reasonable period of time as posted.
7.   Insurance for Independent Contractors. Any independent contractor shall
carry general liability and commercial auto insurance with per occurrence
limits of not less than $1,000,000.00. The general liability policy shall
endorse the City as additional insured including a non-waiver of governmental
immunity form. Such independent contractors shall agree to indemnify and hold
harmless the City and its employees for any and all damages and claims related
to its services rendered to the City to the extent allowed by the Code of Iowa.
The independent contractors shall furnish current certificates of insurance
showing these requirements at least annually.
52.07   MOWING IN THE STREET.
No property owner shall cut, mow, or deposit in any fashion any grass, weeds,
brush, or leaves upon a City street. Property owners found to be in violation
of this section shall be fined for each occurrence in a mowing year, in an
amount as time to time fixed by the Council by resolution.   
(Ord. 620 – Aug. 23 Supp.)
52.08   PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
Allowable exceptions may be permitted to the uniform height specifications of
this chapter in accordance with the rules and procedures as adopted by the
Council for the establishment and maintenance of a native grass area. The
Council may grant or deny an exception in accordance with the standards set
forth herein and within the intent and purpose of this chapter. In granting an
exception, the Council may prescribe and impose appropriate conditions,
safeguards, and a specific time for the performance for which the exception
will be permitted.
52.09   APPLICATION FOR EXCEPTION PERMIT.
An application for an exception permit may be initiated by a property owner or
the property owner’s authorized agent by filing an application with the City
Clerk upon the forms prescribed for this purpose. The application shall be
accompanied by a site plan and such other plans and data showing the
dimensions, descriptive data, seed content, and other materials constituting a
record essential to and understanding of the proposed use of the area in
question. The application shall also be accompanied by a fee as determined by
resolution of the City Council.
52.10   PROCEDURES.
The special permit shall not be granted by the City Council until the following
procedures have been fulfilled.
1.   Applications shall only be received from organizations that are organized
and operated exclusively for charitable, religious, educational, scientific or
literary purposes and that are organized or created in the United States and
whose net earnings do not inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or
individual.
2.   The application shall be completed as set out and shall provide that the
permitted area be at least 1.9 acres in a single tract.
3.   The City Council shall schedule a public hearing in relation to the
exception request. Notice shall be given to the public hearing as required by
State statute by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the City.
If feasible, notice of the public hearing shall be mailed to property owners
within 200 feet of the accepted area.
4.   In granting a permit, the Council may prescribe appropriate conditions and
safeguards in conformity with this chapter and other chapters of this Code of
Ordinances. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of
the terms under which the exception is granted, shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter.
5.   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the City Council
grants an exception to this chapter. The special exception permit shall be
valid for no longer than six months from the date of the approval, unless
seeding has commenced or the Council specifically grants a longer period of
time.
52.11   STANDARDS.
No exception permit shall be granted by the City Council unless the Council
finds that:
1.   The grant of the exception will not be detrimental to or endanger the
public health, safety, morals, comfort, or general welfare of the community;
2.   The exception use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of other
property in the immediate vicinity, nor substantially diminish and impair
property values with the neighborhood;
3.   The establishment of the exception use will not impede the normal and
orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property;
4.   Adequate arrangements have been made to protect the immediate vicinity
from an unnatural accumulation of insects and varmints; and
5.   The special use will not be in major conflict with the Comprehensive City
Plan.
CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL
55.01 Definitions                  55.15 Confinement for Animals Deemed Not To
                                   Be Vicious or Dangerous Wild Animals
55.02 Cruelty to Animals           55.16 Seizure, Impoundment, and Disposition
                                   of Vicious or Dangerous Wild Animals
55.03 Abandonment of Cats and Dogs 55.17 Notice of Impoundment
55.04 Injuries to Animals          55.18 Reclaiming Impounded Animals
55.05 Livestock                    55.19 Impounding Fees
55.06 Dangerous Wild Animals       55.20 Unhealthy Or Unsanitary Conditions
55.07 Exhibitions and Fights       55.21 Animal Waste
55.08 At Large Prohibited          55.22 Rabies Vaccination
55.09 At Large: Impoundment        55.23 Rabies Tags
55.10 Animal Nuisance              55.24 Pet Awards Prohibited
55.11 Feeding Animals              55.25 Tampering With a Rabies Vaccination
                                   Tag
55.12 Damage or Interference       55.26 Tampering With an Electronic Handling
                                   Device
55.13 Vicious Animals              55.27 Citation for Violations
55.14 Owner’s Duty
 
55.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in the chapters of this Code of
Ordinances pertaining to Animal Protection and Control:
1.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium, including
(but not limited to) print, radio, television, sign, display, label, tag, or
articulation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
2.   “Animal” means a nonhuman vertebrate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1)
3.   “Animal shelter” means a facility which is used to house or contain dogs
or cats, or both, and which is owned, operated, or maintained by an
incorporated humane society, animal welfare society, society for the prevention
of cruelty to animals, or other nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare,
protection, and humane treatment of such animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
4.   “At large” means an animal off the premises of the owner. An animal shall
not be deemed at large if such animal:
   A.   Is confined within a suitable enclosure under the control of a
competent person, or
   B.   Is confined within a motor vehicle under the control of a competent
person, or
   C.   Is under the control of a person competent to restrain and control the
animal, either by leash, cord, chain, or other similar restraint not more than
10 feet in length, or properly restrained within a motor vehicle, or
   D.   Is properly housed in a veterinary hospital or licensed kennel, pet
shop, or City designated animal pound.
5.   “Bite” means any puncture, laceration, abrasion, scratch or any other
break in the skin of a human being or animal, caused by an animal.
6.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.
   B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.
   C.   A solicitation to make an investment.
   D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.
7.   “Commercial establishment” means an animal shelter, boarding kennel,
commercial breeder, commercial kennel, dealer, pet shop, pound, public auction,
or research facility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
8.   “Dangerous wild animal” means any animal as set forth in Chapter 717F of
the Code of Iowa.
9.   “Domestic animal” means any animal owned by a person as a pet, for profit,
or for any other purpose, and said animal is allowed to reside within the City
limits as defined by this chapter.
10.   “Fair” means any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair Board
pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted by a
fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.
   C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or concession
booths.
11.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as defined in Section
99B.1 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
12.   “Injury” means an animal’s disfigurement; the impairment of an animal’s
health; or an impairment to the functioning of an animal’s limb or organ, or
the loss of an animal’s limb or organ.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
13.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine, equine,
ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas, and emus; farm deer (as defined in
Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa); or poultry.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1)
14.   “Owner” means any person owning, keeping, sheltering, or harboring an
animal.
15.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained in a
small tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to a
rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical fish,
goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
16.   “Pound” means a facility for the prevention of cruelty to animals
operated by the State, a municipal corporation, or other political subdivision
of the State for the purpose of impounding or harboring seized stray, homeless,
abandoned, or unwanted dogs, cats, or other animals; or a facility operated for
such a purpose under a contract with any municipal corporation or incorporated
society.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
17.   “Research facility” means any school or college of medicine, veterinary
medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, or osteopathic medicine, or hospital, diagnostic
or research laboratories, or other educational or scientific establishment
situated in the State concerned with the investigation of, or instruction
concerning the structure or function of living organisms, the cause,
prevention, control, or cure of diseases or abnormal conditions of human beings
or animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
18.   “Veterinarian” means a veterinarian licensed pursuant to Chapter 169 of
the Code of Iowa who practices veterinary medicine in the State.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
55.02   CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
No person who impounds or confines, in any place, any domestic animal, or fowl,
or dog or cat, shall fail to supply such animal with a sufficient quantity of
food and water, or shall fail to provide the animal with adequate shelter
appropriate for the type and breed and the environmental conditions, or shall
torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, mutilate, overdrive,
overload, drive when overloaded, beat, or kill any such animal by any means
which causes unjustified pain, distress or suffering, whether intentionally or
negligently.
55.03   ABANDONMENT OF CATS AND DOGS.
It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of a cat or dog to
relinquish all rights in and duties to care for the cat or dog. This section
does not apply to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.8)
1.   The delivery of a cat or dog to another person who will accept ownership
and custody of the cat or dog.
2.   The delivery of a cat or dog to an animal shelter or that has been issued
or renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and Land
Stewardship under Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa.
3.   A person who relinquishes custody of a cat at a location in which the
person does not hold a legal or equitable interest, if previously the person
had taken custody of the cat at the same location and provided for the cat’s
sterilization by a veterinarian.
55.04   INJURIES TO ANIMALS.
No person, having no right to do so, shall maliciously kill, maim, or disfigure
any animal of another, or maliciously administer poison to any such animal, or
expose any poisonous substance with the intent that the same should be taken by
any such animal.
55.05   LIVESTOCK.
No person shall keep, own, or shelter any livestock within the City limits,
subject to the following exceptions:
1.   Said livestock is kept in compliance with the City’s zoning ordinances and
regulations.
55.06   DANGEROUS WILD ANIMALS.
No person shall keep, own, or shelter any dangerous wild animals within the
City limits. In addition, this chapter adopts Chapter 717F of the Code of Iowa
by reference and incorporated the same herein.
55.07   EXHIBITIONS AND FIGHTS.
No person shall arrange, promote, or stage an exhibition at which any animal is
tormented, or any fight between animals or between a person and an animal, or
shall keep a place where such exhibitions and fights are staged for the
entertainment of spectators.
55.08   AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow an animal to run at large within
the corporate limits of the City.
55.09   AT LARGE: IMPOUNDMENT.
Animals found at large in violation of this chapter shall be seized and
impounded, or at the discretion of the law enforcement officer, the owner may
be served a summons to appear before a proper court to answer charges made
thereunder.
55.10   ANIMAL NUISANCE.
The following acts and circumstances are hereby declared to be nuisances and
therefore prohibited:
1.   An owner that keeps an animal on private property in such number or in
such manner that allows for the accumulation of solid waste of such animal
which becomes a detriment to or menace to the health of the animal, or any
annoyance to humans.
2.   An owner that allows or permits any dog, cat or animal to cause serious
annoyance or disturbance to any person or persons by frequent and habitual
howling, baying, barking, whining, growling, meowing or making a sound of any
kind or nature.
3.   An owner that allows an animal to cause any damage or defilement to public
or private property.
4.   An owner that allows an animal to threaten, harass, attack, bite or claw
any person or animal on public or private property who has a legitimate reason
to be thereon.
55.11   FEEDING ANIMALS.
It shall be illegal for any person to feed and water any stray or feral animal.
Owners shall only put out food and water sufficient to meet the needs of the
animals under their care. For purposes of this chapter, “stray and feral
animal” is deemed to be animal that is unowned, unclaimed, or a cat or dog that
does not possess a collar, harness, or microchip pursuant to Section
55.23 of this chapter. This provision does not apply to the feeding of wild
birds or squirrels.
55.12   DAMAGE OR INTERFERENCE.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of an animal to allow or permit such animal
to pass upon the premises of another thereby causing damage to, or interference
with, the premises.
55.13   VICIOUS ANIMALS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep a vicious animal within
the City limits. An animal is deemed to be vicious when:
1.   It shall have attacked, bitten or clawed a person or persons causing
puncture injuries breaking the skin; or,
2.   It shall have attacked, bitten or clawed a person or persons, not causing
puncture injuries breaking the skin, on two separate occasions within a 24
month period following the first occurrence; or,
3.   It shall have attacked, bitten or clawed a person or persons on the
command of the owner or person in control of the animal, unless such attack was
for the legitimate protection of persons or property, or the animal was under
the control and use of a law enforcement officer; or,
4.   It shall have attacked, bitten or clawed another domestic animal,
livestock, or fowl, and said animal died as a result of the attack; or
5.   It shall have attacked, bitten or clawed another domestic animal,
livestock, or fowl, other than that of the owner of the attacking animal, on
three separate occasions within 24 month period following the first occurrence;
or,
6.   It shall have previously been deemed or adjudicated to be a vicious animal
in any other jurisdiction.
55.14   OWNER’S DUTY.
It shall be the duty of the owner of any dog, cat or other animal which has
attacked, bitten or clawed a person or any person having knowledge of such
incident to report this act to a local health or law enforcement official. It
shall be the duty of physicians and veterinarians to report to the local board
of health the existence of any animal known or suspected to be suffering from
rabies.
55.15   CONFINEMENT FOR ANIMALS DEEMED NOT TO BE VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS WILD
ANIMALS.
When a local board of health or law enforcement official receives information
that any person or animal has been bitten by an animal or that a dog or animal
is suspected of having rabies, it shall order the owner to confine such animal
in the manner the Police Chief directs. If the owner fails to confine such
animal in the manner directed, the animal shall be seized and impounded by the
Police Chief. Any animal so seized shall be impounded for a period not to
exceed 14 days. After the designated time period for impoundment has expired
the Police Chief may deem the animal recoverable in accordance with Section
55.18, humanely destroyed or otherwise dispose of the animal in accordance with
law.
55.16   SEIZURE, IMPOUNDMENT, AND DISPOSITION OF VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS WILD
ANIMALS.
When a local board of health or law enforcement official receives information
that any person is keeping, sheltering or harboring a vicious animal or
dangerous wild animal, the Police Chief shall cause the matter to be
investigated and if after investigation, the facts indicate that the person
named in the complaint is keeping, sheltering or harboring any such animal in
the City, the Police Chief shall immediately seize any such animal. Any animal
so seized shall be impounded for a period of 14 days. If at the end of the
impoundment period, the individual or entity keeping, sheltering or harboring
such animal has not petitioned the District Court of Wright County seeking
return of such animal, the Police Chief shall cause the animal to be humanely
destroyed or otherwise disposed of in accordance with law. At the discretion of
the Police Chief, the City shall be under no duty to attempt to seize, capture
or confine a vicious animal or dangerous wild animal found at large, nor shall
it have a duty to notify the owner of such animal prior to its destruction if
such animal’s at large status is one deemed to have created a hazard to person
or property and where seizure, capture or confinement would be a hazard to
those tasked with seizing said animal.
55.17   NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
When an animal has been seized and impounded, written notice shall be given
within two days to the owner, if known and located, outlining the complaint as
presented, the relevant provisions of this chapter, and any other relevant
information pertaining to the incident. If the owner is unknown or cannot be
located within 14 days, the animal shall be placed for adoption in a suitable
home, humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this chapter.
55.18   RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
Impounded animals that the Police Chief or the courts deem to be recoverable
may be recovered by the owner upon payment of impounding costs, boarding fees,
veterinarian expenses, or any other costs incurred in the care of the animal.
The refusal to recover any impounded animal shall not relieve the owner of the
duty to pay the impoundment fees, boarding fees, veterinarian expenses, or any
other costs incurred in the care of the animal.
55.19   IMPOUNDING FEES.
Impounding fees shall be as established by resolution of the Council.
55.20   UNHEALTHY OR UNSANITARY CONDITIONS.
No person shall harbor or maintain such animals in such a condition as shall
create an unhealthy or unsanitary condition for humans occupying the premises
or any neighboring premises or create any other such conditions constituting a
nuisance.
55.21   ANIMAL WASTE.
No owner of any dog, cat or other animal, or person having control or
responsibility therefore, shall:
1.   Allow or permit such animal to leave waste on private property without the
consent of the owner of such property.
2.   Allow or permit such animal to leave waste on public property, including
public right-of-way between the curb lines of public streets and alleys.
55.22   RABIES VACCINATION.
Every owner of a dog or cat shall obtain a rabies vaccination for each animal
between four and six months of age and at such intervals thereafter as
stipulated by the manufacturers of the vaccines used. This section applies to
all dogs and cats kept within the City, brought into the City for shows,
exhibitions or performance, or in transit. This section does not apply to dogs
and cats in transit that are continuously held in secure cages and dogs and
cats assigned to research, production of biologics, and licensed animal care
shelters or similar facilities.
55.23   RABIES TAGS.
All dogs and cats over the age of six months shall wear a collar or harness to
which a valid rabies tag is attached. In lieu of the collar and tag, a dog or
cat may be microchipped with a chip that contains the appropriate vaccination
and ownership information. This section shall not apply to dogs being exhibited
or trained at a kennel club event or while being transported to and from such
event if the dog is properly controlled and the owner or trainer has in their
possession documentation of valid vaccination and registration.
55.24   PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717E)
1.   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or advertise
that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:
   A.   A prize for participating in a game.
   B.   A prize for participating in a fair.
   C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.
   D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract that includes
provisions unrelated to the ownership, care, or disposition of the pet.
2.   Exceptions. This section does not apply to any of the following:
   A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of Iowa if
the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet on the
premises of the pet shop.
   B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of America;
the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with outdoor
recreation, hunting, or fishing, including but not limited to the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.
55.25   TAMPERING WITH A RABIES VACCINATION TAG.
It is unlawful to tamper with a rabies vaccination tag.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.45)
1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with a rabies vaccination tag if
all of the following apply:
   A.   The person knowingly removes, damages, or destroys a rabies vaccination
tag as described in Section 351.35 of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   The rabies vaccination tag is attached to a collar worn by a dog,
including as provided in Sections 351.25 and 351.26 of the Code of Iowa.
2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
   A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized to
take action by the owner.
   B.   A peace officer.
   C.   A veterinarian.
   D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.26   TAMPERING WITH AN ELECTRONIC HANDLING DEVICE.
It is unlawful to tamper with an electronic handling device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.46)
1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with an electronic handling
device if all of the following apply:
   A.   The person knowingly removes, disables, or destroys an electronic
device designed and used to maintain custody or control of the dog or modify
the dog’s behavior.
   B.   The electronic device is attached to or worn by the dog or attached to
an item worn by the dog, including (but not limited to) a collar, harness, or
vest.
2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
   A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized to
take action by the owner.
   B.   A peace officer.
   C.   A veterinarian.
   D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.27   CITATION FOR VIOLATIONS.
The Chief of Police is authorized to issue and deliver citations to persons
accused of violating any of the provisions of this chapter. Scheduled fines for
any violation of this chapter shall be in such amount established by resolution
by the City Council. However, nothing in this chapter shall be construed so as
to limit the City’s authority to proceed in accordance with the nuisance or
municipal infraction provisions of the City Code or other law concerning animal
control.
CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
 
60.01 Title                          60.05 Reports of Traffic Accidents
60.02 Definitions                    60.06 Peace Officer’s Authority
60.03 Administration and Enforcement 60.07 Obedience to Peace Officers
60.04 Power to Direct Traffic
 
60.01   TITLE.
Chapters
60 through
70 of this Code of Ordinances may be known and cited as the “Clarion Traffic
Code” (and are referred to herein as the “Traffic Code.”)
60.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law, such
definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)
1.   “Business District” means the territory contiguous to and including the
following designated streets:
   A.   Commencing at the intersection of North Main Street and Second Avenue
Northwest and Second Avenue Northeast, thence south three blocks to First
Avenue Southwest and First Avenue Southeast.
   B.   Commencing at the intersection of First Avenue Northwest and First
Street Northwest, thence south three blocks to First Avenue Southwest.
   C.   Commencing at the intersection of First Street Northeast and First
Avenue Northeast, thence south to the intersection of First Street Northeast
with Central Avenue East.
   D.   Commencing at the intersection of First Avenue Northwest with First
Street Northwest, thence east two blocks to First Street Northeast.
   E.   Commencing at the intersection of Central Avenue West with First Street
Northwest and First Street Southwest, thence east two blocks to First Street
Northeast and First Street Southeast.
   F.   Commencing at the intersection of First Avenue Southwest with First
Street Southwest, thence east to South Main Street.
2.   “MPH” means miles per hour.
3.   “Parade” means any march or procession of persons or vehicles organized
for marching or moving on the streets in an organized fashion or manner or any
march or procession of persons or vehicles represented or advertised to the
public as a parade.
4.   “Park” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
5.   “Peace officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
6.   “Residence district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway not comprising a business, suburban, or school district, where 40
percent or more of the frontage on such a highway for a distance of 300 feet or
more is occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use for
business.
7.   “School district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of 200 feet in either direction from a schoolhouse.
8.   “Stand” or “standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving
or discharging passengers.
9.   “Stop” means when required, the complete cessation of movement.
10.   “Stop” or “stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a vehicle,
even momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control sign or signal.
11.   “Suburban district” means all other parts of the City not included in the
business, school, or residence districts.
12.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for the purpose
of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
13.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, street, or alley.
60.03   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
Provisions of this Traffic Code and State law relating to motor vehicles and
law of the road are enforced by the Police Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
60.04   POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
A peace officer or, in the absence of a peace officer, any officer of the Fire
Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all traffic by
voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws. In the event of an
emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require, notwithstanding the
provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 and 321.236[2])
60.05   REPORTS OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the City
shall file a report as and when required by the Iowa Department of
Transportation. A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for the
confidential use of peace officers and shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)
60.06   PEACE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.
A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle with
reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading, or other manifest
of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle. A peace officer having probable cause to stop a vehicle may require
exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)
60.07   OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control, or regulate traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)
CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
 
61.01 Installation  61.04 Standards
61.02 Crosswalks    61.05 Compliance
61.03 Traffic Lanes
 
61.01   INSTALLATION.
The Police Chief shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control
devices when and as required under this Traffic Code or under State law or
emergency or temporary traffic control devices for the duration of an emergency
or temporary condition as traffic conditions may require to regulate, guide or
warn traffic. The Police Chief shall keep a record of all such traffic control
devices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.02   CROSSWALKS.
The Police Chief is hereby authorized, subject to approval of the Council by
resolution, to designate and maintain crosswalks by appropriate traffic control
devices at intersections where, due to traffic conditions, there is particular
danger to pedestrians crossing the street or roadway, and at such other places
as traffic conditions require.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.03   TRAFFIC LANES.
The Police Chief is hereby authorized to mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as traffic conditions require, consistent with this
Traffic Code. Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.04   STANDARDS.
Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The Manual
of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.05   COMPLIANCE.
No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official traffic
control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless
at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to the exceptions
granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under Section 321.231 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
 
62.01 Violation of Regulations 62.05 Quiet Zones
62.02 Play Streets Designated  62.06 Obstructing View at Intersections
62.03 Vehicles on Sidewalks    62.07 Milling
62.04 Clinging to Vehicle      62.08 Semi-Tractors; Prohibited Noises
 
62.01   VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of a
peace officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or who
fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa statutory
laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in
violation of this section. These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
1.   Section 321.17 – Misdemeanor to violate registration provisions.
2.   Section 321.32 – Registration card, carried and exhibited; exception.
3.   Section 321.37 – Display of plates.
4.   Section 321.38 – Plates, method of attaching, imitations prohibited.
5.   Section 321.57 – Operation under special plates.
6.   Section 321.67 – Certificate of title must be executed.
7.   Section 321.78 – Injuring or tampering with vehicle.
8.   Section 321.79 – Intent to injure.
9.   Section 321.91 – Limitation on liability; penalty for abandonment.
10.   Section 321.98 – Operation without registration.
11.   Section 321.99 – Fraudulent use of registration.
12.   Section 321.104 – Penal offenses against title law.
13.   Section 321.115 – Antique vehicles; model year plates permitted.
14.   Section 321.174 – Operators licensed; operation of commercial vehicles.
15.   Section 321.174A – Operation of motor vehicle with expired license.
16.   Section 321.180 – Instruction permits, commercial learner’s permits, and
chauffeur’s instruction permits.
17.   Section 321.180B – Graduated driver’s licenses for persons aged fourteen
through seventeen.
18.   Section 321.193 – Restrictions on licenses; penalty.
19.   Section 321.194 – Special minors’ licenses.
20.   Section 321.208A – Operation in violation of out-of-service order;
penalties.
21.   Section 321.216 – Unlawful use of license and nonoperator’s
identification card; penalty.
22.   Section 321.216B – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain alcohol.
23.   Section 321.216C – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain tobacco, tobacco products
alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes.
24.   Section 321.218 – Operating without valid driver’s license or when
disqualified; penalties.
25.   Section 321.219 – Permitting unauthorized minor to drive.
26.   Section 321.220 – Permitting unauthorized person to drive.
27.   Section 321.221 – Employing unlicensed chauffeur.
28.   Section 321.222 – Renting motor vehicle to another.
29.   Section 321.223 – Driver’s license inspection for motor vehicle rental.
30.   Section 321.224 – Record kept.
31.   Section 321.232 – Speed detection jamming devices; penalty.
32.   Section 321.234A – All-terrain vehicles, highway use.
33.   Section 321.235A – Electric personal assistive mobility devices.
34.   Section 321.235B – Low-speed electric bicycles.
35.   Section 321.247 – Golf cart operation on City streets.
36.   Section 321.257 – Official traffic control signal.
37.   Section 321.259 – Unauthorized signs, signals or markings.
38.   Section 321.260 – Interference with devices, signs, or signals; unlawful
possession; traffic signal preemption devices.
39.   Section 321.262 – Leaving scene of traffic accident prohibited; vehicle
damage only; removal of vehicles.
40.   Section 321.263 – Information and aid; leaving scene of personal injury
accident.
41.   Section 321.264 – Striking unattended vehicle.
42.   Section 321.265 – Striking fixtures upon a highway.
43.   Section 321.266 – Reporting accidents.
44.   Section 321.275 – Operation of motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
45.   Section 321.276 – Use of electronic communication device while driving;
text-messaging.
46.   Section 321.277 – Reckless driving.
47.   Section 321.277A – Careless driving.
48.   Section 321.278 – Drag racing prohibited.
49.   Section 321.281 – Actions against bicyclists.
50.   Section 321.284 – Open container in motor vehicles, drivers.
51.   Section 321.284A – Open container in motor vehicles, passengers.
52.   Section 321.288 – Control of vehicle; reduced speed.
53.   Section 321.295 – Limitation on bridge or elevated structures.
54.   Section 321.297 – Driving on right-hand side of roadways; exceptions.
55.   Section 321.298 – Meeting and turning to right.
56.   Section 321.299 – Overtaking a vehicle.
57.   Section 321.302 – Overtaking and passing.
58.   Section 321.303 – Limitations on overtaking on the left.
59.   Section 321.304 – Prohibited passing.
60.   Section 321.306 – Roadways laned for traffic.
61.   Section 321.307 – Following too closely.
62.   Section 321.309 – Towing.
63.   Section 321.310 – Towing four-wheel trailers.
64.   Section 321.312 – Turning on curve or crest of grade.
65.   Section 321.313 – Starting parked vehicle.
66.   Section 321.314 – When signal required.
67.   Section 321.315 – Signal continuous.
68.   Section 321.316 – Stopping.
69.   Section 321.317 – Signals by hand and arm or signal device.
70.   Section 321.318 – Method of giving hand and arm signals.
71.   Section 321.319 – Entering intersections from different highways.
72.   Section 321.320 – Left turns; yielding.
73.   Section 321.321 – Entering through highways.
74.   Section 321.322 – Vehicles entering stop or yield intersection.
75.   Section 321.323 – Moving vehicle backward on highway.
76.   Section 321.323A – Approaching certain stationary vehicles.
77.   Section 321.324 – Operation on approach of emergency vehicles.
78.   Section 321.324A – Funeral processions.
79.   Section 321.329 – Duty of driver; pedestrians crossing or working on
highways.
80.   Section 321.330 – Use of crosswalks.
81.   Section 321.332 – White canes restricted to blind persons.
82.   Section 321.333 – Duty of drivers.
83.   Section 321.340 – Driving through safety zone.
84.   Section 321.341 – Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
85.   Section 321.342 – Stop at certain railroad crossings; posting warning.
86.   Section 321.343 – Certain vehicles must stop.
87.   Section 321.344 – Heavy equipment at crossing.
88.   Section 321.344B – Immediate safety threat; penalty.
89.   Section 321.354 – Stopping on traveled way.
90.   Section 321.359 – Moving other vehicle.
91.   Section 321.362 – Unattended motor vehicle.
92.   Section 321.363 – Obstruction to driver’s view.
93.   Section 321.364 – Preventing contamination of food by hazardous material.
94.   Section 321.365 – Coasting prohibited.
95.   Section 321.366 – Acts prohibited on fully-controlled access facilities.
96.   Section 321.367 – Following fire apparatus.
97.   Section 321.368 – Crossing fire hose.
98.   Section 321.369 – Putting debris on highway.
99.   Section 321.370 – Removing injurious material.
100.   Section 321.371 – Clearing up wrecks.
101.   Section 321.372 – Discharging pupils, stopping requirements; penalties.
102.   Section 321.381 – Movement of unsafe or improperly equipped vehicles.
103.   Section 321.381A – Operation of low-speed vehicles.
104.   Section 321.382 – Upgrade pulls; minimum speed.
105.   Section 321.383 – Exceptions; slow vehicles identified.
106.   Section 321.384 – When lighted lamps required.
107.   Section 321.385 – Head lamps on motor vehicles.
108.   Section 321.386 – Head lamps on motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
109.   Section 321.387 – Rear lamps.
110.   Section 321.388 – Illuminating plates.
111.   Section 321.389 – Reflector requirement.
112.   Section 321.390 – Reflector requirements.
113.   Section 321.392 – Clearance and identification lights.
114.   Section 321.393 – Color and mounting.
115.   Section 321.394 – Lamp or flag on projecting load.
116.   Section 321.395 – Lamps on parked vehicles.
117.   Section 321.398 – Lamps on other vehicles and equipment.
118.   Section 321.402 – Spot lamps.
119.   Section 321.403 – Auxiliary driving lamps.
120.   Section 321.404 – Signal lamps and signal devices.
121.   Section 321.404A – Light-restricting devices prohibited.
122.   Section 321.405 – Self-illumination.
123.   Section 321.408 – Back-up lamps.
124.   Section 321.409 – Mandatory lighting equipment.
125.   Section 321.415 – Required usage of lighting devices.
126.   Section 321.417 – Single-beam road-lighting equipment.
127.   Section 321.418 – Alternate road-lighting equipment.
128.   Section 321.419 – Number of driving lamps required or permitted.
129.   Section 321.420 – Number of lamps lighted.
130.   Section 321.421 – Special restrictions on lamps.
131.   Section 321.422 – Red light in front, rear lights.
132.   Section 321.423 – Flashing lights.
133.   Section 321.430 – Brake, hitch, and control requirements.
134.   Section 321.431 – Performance ability.
135.   Section 321.432 – Horns and warning devices.
136.   Section 321.433 – Sirens, whistles, and bells prohibited.
137.   Section 321.434 – Bicycle sirens or whistles.
138.   Section 321.436 – Mufflers, prevention of noise.
139.   Section 321.437 – Mirrors.
140.   Section 321.438 – Windshields and windows.
141.   Section 321.439 – Windshield wipers.
142.   Section 321.440 – Restrictions as to tire equipment.
143.   Section 321.441 – Metal tires prohibited.
144.   Section 321.442 – Projections on wheels.
145.   Section 321.444 – Safety glass.
146.   Section 321.445 – Safety belts and safety harnesses; use required.
147.   Section 321.446 – Child restraint devices.
148.   Section 321.449 – Motor carrier safety rules.
149.   Section 321.449A – Rail crew transport drivers.
150.   Section 321.449B – Texting or using a mobile telephone while operating a
commercial motor vehicle.
151.   Section 321.450 – Hazardous materials transportation regulations.
152.   Section 321.454 – Width of vehicles.
153.   Section 321.455 – Projecting loads on passenger vehicles.
154.   Section 321.456 – Height of vehicles.
155.   Section 321.457 – Maximum length.
156.   Section 321.458 – Loading beyond front.
157.   Section 321.460 – Spilling loads on highways.
158.   Section 321.461 – Trailers and towed vehicles.
159.   Section 321.462 – Drawbars and safety chains.
160.   Section 321.463 – Maximum gross weight; exceptions, penalties.
161.   Section 321.465 – Weighing vehicles and removal of excess.
162.   Section 321.466 – Increased loading capacity; reregistration.
62.02   PLAY STREETS DESIGNATED.
The Police Chief shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a
play street and cause to be placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway
indicating and helping to protect the same. Whenever authorized signs are
erected indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall
drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of
vehicles having business or whose residences are within such closed area, and
then any said driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such
street or portion thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
62.03   VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area except
at a driveway.
62.04   CLINGING TO VEHICLE.
No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
in-line skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or
herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
62.05   QUIET ZONES.
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
62.06   OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to obstruct
the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a clear view of
traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets. Any such obstruction
is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty may be abated in
the manner provided by
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
62.07   MILLING.
It is unlawful to drive or operate a vehicle, either singly or with others, in
any processional milling or repeated movement over any street to the
interference with normal traffic use, or to the annoyance or offense of any
person.
62.08   SEMI-TRACTORS; PROHIBITED NOISES.
It is unlawful for any person within the City to use any mechanical device
operated by compressed air and used for the purpose of assisting braking on any
semi-tractor.
CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS
 
63.01 General                             63.04 Special Speed Zones
63.02 State Code Speed Limits             63.05 Minimum Speed
63.03 Parks, Cemeteries, and Parking Lots
 
63.01   GENERAL.
Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and proper,
having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and of any
other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on any
street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)
63.02   STATE CODE SPEED LIMITS.
The following speed limits are established in Section 321.285 of the Code of
Iowa and any speed in excess thereof is unlawful unless specifically designated
otherwise in this chapter as a special speed zone.
1.   Business District – 20 MPH.
2.   Residence or School District – 25 MPH.
3.   Suburban District – 45 MPH.
63.03   PARKS, CEMETERIES, AND PARKING LOTS.
A speed in excess of 15 MPH in any public park, cemetery, or parking lot,
unless specifically designated otherwise in this chapter, is unlawful.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[5])
63.04   SPECIAL SPEED ZONES.
In accordance with requirements of the Iowa Department of Transportation, or
whenever the Council shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that any speed limit listed in Section
63.02 is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found
to exist at any intersection or other place or upon any part of the City street
system, the Council shall determine and adopt by ordinance such higher or lower
speed limit as it deems reasonable and safe at such location. The following
special speed zones have been established:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290)
1.   Special 25 MPH Speed Zones.
A speed in excess of 25 MPH is unlawful on any of the following designated
streets or parts thereof.
   A.   On Second Street SW, from its intersection with Fourteenth Avenue SW to
Central Avenue West, and on Second Street NW, from its intersection with
Central Avenue West to its intersection with Eighth Avenue NW.
2.   Special 30 MPH Speed Zones.
A speed in excess of MPH is unlawful on any of the following designated streets
or parts thereof.
   A.   On Central Avenue (HWY 3), from Tenth Street East to Fourth Street
West.
3.   Special 35 MPH Speed Zones.
A speed in excess of 35 MPH is unlawful on any of the following designated
streets or parts thereof.
   A.   On Central Avenue (HWY 3), from the east City limit to Tenth Street
East;
   B.   On Central Avenue (HWY 3), from Fourth Street West to Tenth Street
West;
   C.   On Second Street SW, from Fifteenth Avenue SW to Fourteenth Avenue SW;
and,
   D.   On Second Street NW, from Eighth Avenue NW to north City limit.
4.   Special 45 MPH Speed Zones.
A speed in excess of 45 MPH is unlawful on any of the following designated
streets or parts thereof.
   A.   On Central Avenue (HWY 3), from Tenth Street West to the west City
limit.
63.05   MINIMUM SPEED.
A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)
CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS
 
64.01 Turning at Intersections 64.03 Left Turn for Parking
64.02 U-Turns
 
64.01   TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)
1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half
of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street shall
be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the centerline
thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it enters the
intersection. A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way street shall be
made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street being entered upon
leaving the intersection.
The Council may cause markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or adjacent
to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic conditions require,
that a different course from that specified above be traveled by vehicles
turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons or signs are so placed, no
driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as
directed and required by such markers, buttons or signs.
64.02   U-TURNS.
It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection;
however, U-turns are prohibited within the Business District, at intersections
where signs prohibiting U-turns are posted, and at intersections where there
are automatic traffic signals.
64.03   LEFT TURN FOR PARKING.
No person shall make a left hand turn, crossing the centerline of the street,
within the Business District, for the purpose of parking on said street, or
cross the centerline of any street within the Business District while leaving a
parking space.
CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
 
65.01 Through Streets             65.06 Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk
65.02 Stop Required               65.07 Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed
65.03 Four-Way Stop Intersections 65.08 Yield to Pedestrians in Crosswalks
65.04 Yield Required              65.09 Official Traffic Controls
65.05 School Stops
 
65.01   THROUGH STREETS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop, unless a yield is permitted by this
chapter, before entering an intersection with the following designated through
streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   Central Avenue, from east City limit to First Street NE.
2.   Central Avenue, from Second Street NW to west City limit.
3.   Main Street, from Tenth Avenue SE to Central Avenue.
4.   Main Street, from Central Avenue to Fifth Avenue NW.
5.   Second Street, from south City limit to north City limit.
65.02   STOP REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   Thirteenth Avenue SW.
Vehicles traveling east on Thirteenth Avenue SW shall stop at South Main
Street.
2.   Sixth Avenue SW.
Vehicles traveling west on Sixth Avenue SW shall stop at Fourth Street SW.
3.   First Street. Vehicles traveling on First Street shall stop at Central
Avenue.
4.   First Street NW.
Vehicles traveling on First Street NW shall stop at First Avenue NW.
5.   Seventh Avenue NW.
Vehicles traveling east on Seventh Avenue NW shall stop at Second Street NW.
6.   Eighth Avenue NW.
Vehicles traveling east on Eighth Avenue NW shall stop at Second Street NW.
7.   Fifth Avenue NE.
Vehicles traveling east on Fifth Avenue NE shall stop at Second Street NE.
8.   Fourth Avenue NE.
Vehicles traveling east on Fourth Avenue NE shall stop at Second Street NE.
9.   Second Avenue. Vehicles traveling on Second Avenue shall stop at Second
Street NE.
10.   First Avenue NE.
Vehicles traveling west on First Avenue NE shall stop at Second Street NE.
11.   Sixth Street NE.
Vehicles traveling on Sixth Street NE shall stop at CNW Railroad only when stop
sign is in place.
12.   Second Street SW.
Vehicles traveling on Second Street SW shall stop at CNW Railroad only when
stop sign is in place.
13.   Second Street NW.
Vehicles traveling on Second Street NW shall stop at CNW Railroad only when
stop sign is in place.
14.   Birch Lane. Vehicles traveling south on Birch Lane shall stop at Willow
Drive.
15.   Second Avenue NE.
Vehicles traveling on Second Avenue NE shall stop at Sixth Street NE.
16.   First Avenue NE.
Vehicles traveling on First Avenue NE shall stop at Sixth Street NE.
17.   Tenth Street NE.
Vehicles traveling north on Tenth Street NE shall stop at First Avenue NE.
18.   Third Avenue NE.
Vehicles traveling on Third Avenue NE shall stop at Ninth Street NE.
19.   Second Avenue NE.
Vehicles traveling on Second Avenue NE shall stop at Ninth Street NE.
20.   Fifth Street NE.
Vehicles traveling north on Fifth Street NE shall stop at Third Avenue NE.
21.   Fourth Street NE.
Vehicles traveling north on Fourth Street NE shall stop at Third Avenue NE.
22.   Third Street NE.
Vehicles traveling north on Third Street NE shall stop at Third Avenue NE.
23.   First Street SE.
Vehicles traveling on First Street SE shall stop at the CNW Railroad only when
the stop sign is in place.
24.   Second Street SE.
Vehicles traveling on Second Street SE shall stop at CNW Railroad only when the
stop sign is in place.
25.   First Street SE and Third Avenue SE.
Vehicles traveling on First Street SE shall stop at the intersection of First
Street SE and Third Avenue SE.
26.   Fourth Street NE and Third Avenue NE.
Vehicles traveling on Third Avenue NE shall stop at the intersection of Fourth
Street NE and Third Avenue NE.
27.   First Avenue SW and the north-south alley in Block 1, Denison’s Addition.
Vehicles traveling south on the north-south alley in Block 1, Denison’s
Addition to Clarion, Iowa, shall stop at the intersection of First Avenue SW
and said alley.
28.   First Avenue SE and First Street SE.
Vehicles traveling on First Avenue SE shall stop at the intersection of First
Street SE and First Avenue SE.
29.   Fourteenth Avenue SW and Main Street. Vehicles traveling east on
Fourteenth Avenue SW shall stop at the intersection of Fourteenth Avenue SW and
Main Street.
30.   Fifteenth Avenue SW and County Road R38 (aka Madison Avenue). Vehicles
traveling west on Fifteenth Avenue SW shall stop at the intersection of
Fifteenth Avenue SW and County Road R38 (aka Madison Avenue).
31.   First Street NW and Fourth Avenue NW.
Vehicles traveling on First Street NW shall stop at the intersection of First
Street NW and Fourth Avenue NW.
32.   Fourth Street NE and First Avenue NE.
Vehicles traveling on First Avenue NE shall stop at the intersection of Fourth
Street NE and First Avenue NE. 
33.   Fourth Street NE and Second Avenue NE.
Vehicles traveling on Second Avenue NE shall stop at the intersection of Fourth
Street NE and Second Avenue NE. 
34.   First Street SW and Sixth Avenue SW.
Vehicles traveling on First Street SW shall stop at the intersection of First
Street SW and Sixth Avenue SW. 
35.   Third Street SW and Sixth Avenue SW.
Vehicles traveling on Third Street SW shall stop at the intersection of Third
Street SW and Sixth Avenue SW. 
36.   First Street SE and Fifth Avenue SE.
Vehicles traveling on First Street SE shall stop at the intersection of First
Street SE and Fifth Avenue SE.
37.   First Avenue SE and Sixth Street SE.
Vehicles traveling on First Avenue SE shall stop at the intersection of First
Avenue SE and Sixth Street SE.
38.   South Main Street and Thirteenth Avenue. Vehicles traveling on South Main
Street shall stop at the intersection of Thirteenth Avenue from both the north
and south, making this a three-way stop intersection.
39.   Sixth Street NE and Seventh Avenue NE.
Vehicles traveling on Sixth Street NE shall stop at the intersection of Seventh
Avenue NE from both the north and south.
40.   North Main Street and Sixth Avenue NE.
Vehicles traveling east and west on Sixth Avenue NE shall stop at the
intersection of North Main Street and Sixth Avenue NE.
41.   Second Street NE and Sixth Avenue NE.
Vehicles traveling east on Sixth Avenue NE shall stop at the intersection of
Sixth Avenue NE and Second Street NE.
Vehicles traveling west on Sixth Avenue NE shall stop at the intersection of
Sixth Avenue NE and Second Street NE.
42.   Fourth Avenue NW and Railroad Crossing. Vehicles approaching the railroad
crossing on Fourth Avenue NW shall stop prior to entering the railroad
intersection when traveling from the east and the west.
43.   Fifth Avenue NW and Railroad Crossing. Vehicles approaching the railroad
crossing on Fifth Avenue NW shall stop prior to entering the railroad
intersection when traveling from the east and the west.
44.   Seventh Avenue NW and Railroad Crossing. Vehicles approaching the
railroad crossing on Seventh Avenue NW shall stop prior to entering the
railroad intersection when traveling from the east and the west.
45.   Eighth Avenue NW and Railroad Crossing. Vehicles approaching the railroad
crossing on Eighth Avenue NW shall stop prior to entering the railroad
intersection when traveling from the east and the west.
46.   First Avenue SW and Ninth Street SW.
Vehicles traveling east and west on First Avenue SW and vehicles traveling
north and south on Ninth Street SW shall stop at the intersection of First
Avenue SW and Ninth Street SW.
47.   First Avenue SW and First Street SW.
Vehicles traveling north and south on First Street SW shall stop at the
intersection of First Avenue SW and First Street SW.
48.   Fourth Avenue NW and Fourth Street NW.
Vehicles traveling east and west on Fourth Avenue NW shall stop at the
intersection of Fourth Avenue NW and Fourth Street NW.
49.   Second Avenue NE and First Street NE.
Vehicles traveling east and west on Second Avenue NE shall stop at the
intersection of Second Avenue NE and First Street NE.
50.   Third Avenue NE and First Street NE.
Vehicles traveling north and south on First Street NE shall stop at the
intersection of Third Avenue NE and First Street NE.
65.03   FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following designated
four-way stop intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   Intersection of Fifth Avenue NE and Second Street NE.
2.   Intersection of Third Avenue NE and Second Street NE.
3.   Intersection of Third Avenue NE and Sixth Street NE.
4.   Intersection of Fifth Avenue NE and Sixth Street NE.
5.   Intersection of Fifth Avenue SE and Second Street SE.
6.   Intersection of First Avenue NE and First Street NE.
65.04   YIELD REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall yield in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   Fourteenth Avenue SW.
Vehicles traveling east on Fourteenth Avenue SW shall yield at South Main
Street.
2.   Sixth Avenue SW.
Vehicles traveling on Sixth Avenue SW shall yield at Third Street SW.
3.   Fifth Avenue SW.
Vehicles traveling east on Fifth Avenue SW shall yield at First Street SE.
4.   Fifth Avenue SW.
Vehicles traveling on Fifth Avenue SW shall yield at Second Street SE.
5.   Fifth Avenue SE.
Vehicles traveling west on Fifth Avenue SE shall yield at Second Street SE.
6.   Fifth Avenue SE.
Vehicles traveling west on Fifth Avenue SE shall yield at First Street SE.
7.   First Avenue SE.
Vehicles traveling west on First Avenue SE shall yield at First Street NE.
8.   First Avenue SW.
Vehicles traveling east on First Avenue SW shall yield at First Street NE.
9.   First Avenue NE.
Vehicles traveling on First Avenue NE shall yield at Ninth Street NE.
10.   Second Avenue NE.
Vehicles traveling east on Second Avenue NE shall yield at Eleventh Street NE.
11.   Third Avenue NE.
Vehicles traveling east on Third Avenue NE shall yield at Eleventh Street NE.
12.   Willow Drive. Vehicles traveling east on Willow Drive shall yield at
Eleventh Street NE.
13.   Maple Lane. Vehicles traveling on Maple Lane shall yield at Willow Drive.
14.   Sixth Avenue NE.
Vehicles traveling east on Sixth Avenue NE shall yield at Sixth Street NE.
15.   Seventh Avenue NE.
Vehicles traveling east on Seventh Avenue NE shall yield at Sixth Street NE.
16.   First Street NW.
Vehicles traveling on First Street NW shall yield at Fifth Avenue NW.
65.05   SCHOOL STOPS.
At the following school crossing zones every driver of a vehicle approaching
said zone shall bring the vehicle to a full stop at a point 10 feet from the
approach side of the crosswalk marked by an authorized school stop sign and
thereafter proceed in a careful and prudent manner until the vehicle shall have
passed through such school crossing zone.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.249)
1.   Intersection of Second Street NE and Central Avenue East.
65.06   STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.
The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when able to do
so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)
65.07   STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.
Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.
65.08   YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS IN CROSSWALKS.
Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver of a
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need be, to
yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or
within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
65.09   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROLS.
Every driver shall observe and comply with the directions provided by official
traffic control signals at the following intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
1.   Intersection of Central Avenue and Main Street.
2.   Intersection of Central Avenue and Second Street.
3.   Intersection of Central Avenue and Fourth Street.
CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
 
66.01 Temporary Embargo                  66.03 Load Limits Upon Certain Streets
66.02 Permits for Excess Size and Weight 66.04 Variance
 
66.01   TEMPORARY EMBARGO.
If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of deterioration,
rain, snow or other climatic conditions that certain streets will be seriously
damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an amount specified by
the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets so designated by such
signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 and 472)
66.02   PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
The Police Chief may, upon application and good cause being shown, issue a
special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move a
vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the
maximum specified by State law or the City over those streets or bridges named
in the permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for which the
City is responsible for maintenance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 321E.2
66.03   LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs at
any time upon any of the following streets or parts of streets:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 475)
1.   10-ton limit on Sixth Street NE, from Third Avenue NE to Seventh Avenue
NE.
66.04   VARIANCE.
The highest-ranking police officer on duty at the time of a request for a
variance may grant a variance to any vehicle from the terms of this chapter.
Such variance shall be granted for such period as shall be determined by the
officer in charge, provided, however, that if the variance is for a period
longer than one hour, such variance shall be made in writing on forms provided
by the office of the City Administrator and shall bear the signature of the
officer in charge together with specifications of the time and terms of the
variance.
CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS
 
67.01 Walking in Street 67.03 Pedestrian Crossing
67.02 Hitchhiking
 
67.01   WALKING IN STREET.
Pedestrians shall at all times when walking on or along a street, walk on the
left side of the street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)
67.02   HITCHHIKING.
No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)
67.03   PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)
CHAPTER 68
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
68.01   ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.
Upon the following streets and alleys, vehicular traffic, other than permitted
cross traffic, shall move only in the indicated direction when appropriate
signs are in place.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[4])
1.   Third Avenue NW shall be eastbound only from Second Street NE to First
Street NE during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to noon on Sundays.
2.   Third Avenue NE shall be westbound only from Second Street NE to First
Street NE during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to noon on Sundays.
3.   Fourth Avenue NW shall be eastbound only from Second Street NW to First
Avenue NW during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to noon on Sundays.
4.   Second Avenue NE shall be eastbound only from Fifth Street NE to Sixth
Street NE during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to noon on Sundays.
5.   Sixth Street NE shall be southbound only from Second Avenue NE to First
Avenue NE during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to noon on Sundays.
6.   Third Avenue NE shall be westbound only from Fourth Street NE to Second
Street NE during the hours of 7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday,
during the dates of August 25 through June 1.
CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS
69.01 Park Adjacent to Curb             69.10 Parking of Trailers After Dark
69.02 Parking on One-Way Streets        69.11 Snow Removal
69.03 Angle Parking                     69.12 Snow Routes
69.04 Manner of Angle Parking           69.13 Controlled Access Facilities
69.05 Parking for Certain Purposes      69.14 Parking Limited
Illegal
69.06 Parking Prohibited                69.15 Loitering Prohibited
69.07 Persons with Disabilities Parking 69.16 Permitted Parking in City Parking
                                        Lots
69.08 No Parking Zones                  69.17 Parking on Front, Side, and Rear
                                        Yards
69.09 Truck and Bus Parking Limited     69.18 Permits for Approved
                                        Circumstances
 
69.01   PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with
the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and
with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking and
vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.02   PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in
the case of angle parking.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.03   ANGLE PARKING.
Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
1.   Second Avenue NE, on the south side, from First Street NW one-half block
west.
2.   Second Avenue NE, on the north side, from North Main to one-half block
east.
3.   Main Street, on the west side, from the north line of the C.G.W. R.R.
tracks to First Avenue South.
4.   Main Street, on the west side, from First Avenue South to Central Avenue.
5.   Main Street, on both sides, from Central Avenue to Second Avenue North.
6.   First Street NE, on the east side, from Central Avenue to First Avenue NE.
7.   First Street NE, on both sides, from First Avenue to one-half block north.
8.   First Street SW, on the west side, from First Avenue SW to Central Avenue.
9.   First Street SW, on the east side, from First Avenue SW to Central Avenue
for Clarion Police vehicles and other marked emergency vehicles except public
parking is allowed on the east side, as follows:
   A.   From First Avenue south to 126 feet north of the north side of the
First Avenue SW intersection. and
   B.   From Central Avenue south for 100 feet.
10.   Second Avenue NW, on both sides, from North Main to one-half block west.
11.   Third Avenue NE, on the north side, from First Street to one-half block
east.
12.   First Street NE, on the east side, from Third Avenue to one-half block
north.
13.   First Street NW, on the east side, from Third Avenue NW to one-half block
north.
14.   Second Avenue NW, on the south side, from First Street NW to one-half
block east.
15.   First Avenue, on the north side, from First Street NE to one-half block
east.
16.   Willow Drive, on the north side, from Eleventh Street NE west
approximately one block (directly in front of the High School).
17.   Third Avenue NE, on the north side, from Third Street NE to Fifth Street
NE.
18.   Second Street NE, on the east side, from Third Avenue to Fifth Avenue.
19.   Second Avenue NE, on the north side, from Fifth Street NE to Sixth Street
NE.
20.   First Street NW, on the east side, from First Avenue NW to one-half block
north.
21.   First Avenue NW, on the south side, between First Street NW and Second
Street NW.
22.   South Main Street, on the west side, from Thirteenth Avenue SW north one-
half block.
23.   Fourteenth Avenue SW, on the north side, from South Main one-half block.
24.   Thirteenth Avenue SW, on both sides, from South Main, west one-half
block.
25.   South Main, on the west side, from Fourteenth Avenue SW north one-half
block.
69.04   MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
Upon those streets or portions of streets which have been signed or marked for
angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an angle
to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as indicated
by such signs and markings. No part of any vehicle, or the load thereon, when
parked within a diagonal parking district, shall extend into the roadway more
than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right angles to the adjacent curb
or edge of roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.05   PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.
No person shall park a vehicle upon public property for more than 48 hours,
unless otherwise limited under the provisions of this chapter, or for any of
the following principal purposes:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   Sale. Displaying such vehicle for sale.
2.   Repairing. For lubricating, repairing or for commercial washing of such
vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency.
3.   Advertising. Displaying advertising.
4.   Merchandise Sales. Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a duly
established market place or when so authorized or licensed under this Code of
Ordinances.
69.06   PARKING PROHIBITED.
No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
1.   Crosswalk. On a crosswalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[5])
2.   Center Parkway. On the center parkway or dividing area of any divided
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
3.   Mailboxes. Within 20 feet on either side of a mailbox that is so placed
and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from vehicles on the
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
4.   Sidewalks. On or across a sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[1])
5.   Driveway. In front of a public or private driveway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[2])
6.   Intersection. Within an intersection or within 10 feet of an intersection
of any street or alley.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[3])
7.   Fire Hydrant. Within five feet of a fire hydrant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[4])
8.   Stop Sign or Signal. Within 10 feet upon the approach to any flashing
beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[6])
9.   Railroad Crossing. Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red
light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[8])
10.   Fire Station. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of said entrance when properly sign posted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[9])
11.   Excavations. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction
when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[10])
12.   Double Parking. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at
the edge or curb of a street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[11])
13.   Hazardous Locations. When, because of restricted visibility or when
standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic, or
when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[13])
14.   Churches, Nursing Homes, and Other Buildings. A space of 50 feet is
hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre, auditorium,
hotel having more than 25 sleeping rooms, hospital, nursing home, taxicab
stand, bus depot, church, or other building where large assemblages of people
are being held, within which space, when clearly marked as such, no motor
vehicle shall be left standing, parked or stopped except in taking on or
discharging passengers or freight, and then only for such length of time as is
necessary for such purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)
15.   Alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner
or under such conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet of the width
of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall
stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block
the driveway entrance to any abutting property. The provisions of this
subsection do not apply to a vehicle parked in any alley that is 18 feet wide
or less, provided that said vehicle is parked to deliver goods or services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
16.   Ramps. In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public or
private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[15])
17.   Area Between Lot Line and Curb Line. That area of the public way not
covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and the curb line, where
curbing has been installed.
18.   In More Than One Space. In any designated parking space so that any part
of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
markings designating such space.
69.07   PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
The following regulations shall apply to the establishment and use of persons
with disabilities parking spaces:
1.   Establishment. Persons with disabilities parking spaces shall be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of Iowa
and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18. No unauthorized person shall establish
any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first obtaining
Council approval.
2.   Improper Use. The following uses of a persons with disabilities parking
space, located on either public or private property, constitute improper use of
a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a violation of this Code
of Ordinances:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4[2])
   A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit.
   B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with disabilities
parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or being
transported in accordance with Section 321L.2[1b] of the Code of Iowa.
   C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under Section 321L.8
of the Code of Iowa.
3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones. No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:
   A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must comply
with the requirements of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa when utilizing
a wheelchair parking cone.
   B.   A person shall not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone that is
properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa.
69.08   NO PARKING ZONES.
No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in any of the following
specifically designated no parking zones except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a peace
officer or traffic control signal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   South Main Street on both sides, from Thirteenth Avenue SW to Third Avenue
SW.
2.   Second Street SW on both sides, from Ninth Avenue SW to Fourth Avenue NW.
3.   Fifth Avenue NW on the north side, from First Street NW to the alley
between First Street NW and Second Street NW.
4.   First Street NE on the west side, from Third Avenue NW to Second Avenue
NW.
5.   Fourth Avenue NE on the south side, from one-half block west to Second
Street NE.
6.   First Avenue NW on the south side, from one-half block west to First
Street NW.
7.   Fifth Avenue SE on the north side, from Sixth Street SE to Third Street
SE.
8.   Third Avenue NE on both sides, from Second Street NE to Third Street NE
between 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on school days only.
9.   Third Street NE on the east side, from Second Avenue NE to the alley
between Second Avenue NE and Third Avenue NE.
10.   Fourth Street NE on the east side, from Third Avenue NE to the alley
between Third Avenue NE and Second Avenue NE.
11.   Willow Drive, from Sixth Street NE to Eleventh Street NE, with the
exception of one block on the north side directly in front of the High School.
12.   Third Avenue NE on the south side, from Second Street NE to Fourth Street
NE during the hours of 7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, during
the dates of August 25 through June 1.
13.   First Avenue SE, on both sides, from Tenth Street SE to Sherwood Street.
14.   Fourteenth Avenue SW on the south side, from the corner of Main Street
South and 14th Avenue SW for 140 feet to the west.
15.   North Main on east side from First Avenue N to Sixth Avenue N with the
exception of religious functions taking place at the religious establishments
in said location.
(Subsection 15 – Ord. 612 – Mar. 22 Supp.)
16.   Fourteenth Street NE on both sides from Central Avenue to White Fox
Drive.
(Subsection 16 – Ord. 612 – Mar. 22 Supp.)
17.   Sixth Street SE on the east side, from First Avenue SE south to the dead-
end, between the dates of May 1 through June 30 of each year.   
(Subsection 17 – Ord. 631 – Aug. 25 Supp.)
69.09   TRUCK AND BUS PARKING LIMITED.
It is unlawful for any motor truck, carrier, van, stock truck, or bus of any
kind more than 22 feet in length to stop, park or to be left standing upon any
street except for the purpose of loading or unloading and then only so long as
it is necessary for loading or unloading, and not to exceed 30 minutes at any
one time.
69.10   PARKING OF TRAILERS AFTER DARK.
It is unlawful for a trailer to be left standing upon any street after sunset
except for the purpose of loading or unloading, and then only so long as it is
necessary for loading or unloading, and not to exceed 30 minutes at any one
time. Parking in violation of this section is prohibited unless the registered
owner of the trailer has obtained a permit from the Police Chief and the
trailer is parked in compliance with this section.
1.   To obtain a permit, the registered owner of said trailer must be able to
establish to the satisfaction of the Police Chief that it is necessary for the
trailer to be parked on the street. Permits shall only be issued for commercial
use trailers. Permits shall not be issued for the following types of trailers,
whether used commercially or not:
   A.   Boat trailers, recreational vehicle trailers, motorcycle trailers,
snowmobile trailers, travel trailers and campers, semi-tractor trailers, food
or concession trailers, horse trailers, livestock trailers, and tank trailers.
2.   A permit shall allow for a trailer to be parked on any City street up to
but no more than 10 consecutive nights.
3.   Permits, both new and renewal, issued under this section shall cost
$100.00, and be valid for one year from the date of approval, unless revoked at
the discretion of the Police Chief, Mayor, or designated code official. Permit
fees shall be fully-earned and non-refundable.
4.   It is the responsibility of the registered owner to renew a permit.
5.   A permit may only be valid for one trailer at any one time. In the event a
registered owner replaces a trailer with another, the permit may be transferred
at no cost to the new trailer at the discretion of the Police Chief.
6.   A permit shall not be transferable from one registered owner to another
unless both registered owners have 100 percent common interest. For example, if
an individual retitles the trailer from his/her individual name to a legal
entity wholly owned by that individual and/or spouse, the permit may be
transferred without a fee. It is the responsibility of the registered owner to
prove common ownership to the satisfaction of the Police Chief.
7.   A permit may only be transferred once during the permit year.
69.11   SNOW REMOVAL.
No person shall park, abandon, or leave unattended any vehicle on any public
street, alley, or City-owned off-street parking area during any snow emergency
for the 48-hour period after cessation of such event. A snow emergency parking
ban shall be in effect through the duration of the snow or ice event and the
48-hour period after cessation of such event.
(Code of Iowa, 321.236[1])
69.12   SNOW ROUTES.
The Council may designate certain streets in the City as snow routes. When
conditions of snow or ice exist on the traffic surface of a designated snow
route, it is unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to impede or block traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[12])
69.13   CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES.
Parking restrictions on controlled access facilities are as specified in
Chapter 140 of this Code of Ordinances.
69.14   PARKING LIMITED.
It is unlawful to park any vehicle between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.
on each day upon the following designated streets and parking areas:
1.   100 block of South Main, on the east and west sides of the street.
2.   100 block of North Main, on the east and west sides of the street.
3.   200 block of North Main, on the east and west sides of the street.
4.   100 block of First Avenue NW, on the north and south sides of the street.
5.   100 block of First Avenue NE, on the north and south sides of the street.
6.   100 block of Central Avenue East, on the south side of the street.
7.   The City parking lot, located on the west side of the 100 block of South
Main.
8.   200 block of South Main, south to the RR tracks on the east and west sides
of the street.
69.15   LOITERING PROHIBITED.
No person except those proceeding to enter his or her motor vehicle or those
persons exiting their motor vehicles and leaving the parking lot directly shall
remain within the parking lot between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. No
person shall congregate, stand, loaf, or loiter upon the parking lot or
abutting street, sidewalk, or crossing between the restricted hours.
69.16   PERMITTED PARKING IN CITY PARKING LOTS.
No motor vehicle, trailer of any length, machinery or equipment of any kind
shall park within the City parking lots located between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 5:00 a.m. in the City parking lots located in the (i) northeast corner of
the intersection of First Avenue NE, and (ii) First Street NE, the 100th Block
of South Main, and the parking lot located in the (iii) 200th Block of South
Main and First Avenue SW.
1.   Parking in these designated lots between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00
a.m. is prohibited, unless the vehicle parked within the parking lot displays a
parking permit issued by the City. Permits shall be issued by the City pursuant
to the procedures approved by the City Council.
2.   The cost of each permit shall be set by the City Council.
3.   The permit shall be prominently displayed in the vehicle and shall be
visible in the lower right hand corner of the front windshield.
4.   The parking permits shall be issued on an annual basis only. The fee will
be prorated on a monthly basis from the start of the effective period of the
parking permit, including the month of issue through the end of the year.
5.   The color and design shall be determined by the City Administrator.
6.   In order to secure a parking permit, the applicant must be able to
establish to the satisfaction of the City Administrator or designee, their
permanent residence is located within two blocks of the permitted parking lot.
Proof of residence will normally be a copy of a signed deed or executed lease.
69.17   PARKING ON FRONT, SIDE, AND REAR YARDS.
The regulations contained in this section apply to all residential zoned
districts and residential real properties, regardless of zone, within the City.
1.   Definitions. The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them as follows, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning. All other words and terms, not
enumerated in Subsection 1 of this section, shall be defined as provided in the
zoning ordinance, any amendments thereto or any future zoning ordinances
enacted by the City.
   A.   “Driveway” means an improved surface consisting of concrete, asphalt,
seal coat, solid bricks, gravel, or crushed stone, constructed and maintained
in quality, quantity and size to prevent the creation of ruts in, or
deterioration or damage to, the driveway or soil beneath from the operation or
parking of vehicles thereon, located within a yard and connected to an approved
curb drop or entrance.
   B.   “Driveway extension” means that portion of a driveway which is in
excess of the allotted driveway width, which is contiguous to a driveway, which
shall lead to a curb drop, and which consists of concrete, asphalt, seal coat,
solid bricks, gravel or crushed stone, constructed and maintained in quality,
quantity and size to prevent the creation of ruts in, or deterioration or
damage to, the driveway extension or soil beneath from the operation or parking
of vehicles thereon.
   C.   “Front yard” for a corner lot means any yard of a corner lot adjacent
to a street. For any other lot, “front yard” means any yard adjacent to a
street.
   D.   “Temporary” or “temporarily” means a period of time not to exceed 48
hours.
   E.   “Trailer” means every vehicle without motive power designed for
carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle. Whenever
the term “trailer” is used in this section, it shall be construed to include
semi-trailers.
   F.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, street, or
alley, and does not include any device designed to be moved solely by human
power.
2.   Parking on Residential Lot. No person shall cause, undertake, permit or
allow the outside parking and storage of vehicles, recreational vehicles,
machinery or equipment, or trailers, on property used for residential purposes
or residentially zoned property unless it complies with the following
requirements:
   A.   Vehicles, recreational vehicles, machinery or equipment, or trailers,
which are parked or stored outside on a residentially zoned lot must be on all-
weather surface driveway, consisting of solid concrete, asphalt, solid bricks,
crushed stone or gravel, which shall not exceed 30 percent of the total square
footage of the lot.
   B.   Driveways exceeding 30 percent of the total square footage of the lot
prior to adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, are
exempt, providing no additional surface area is added. Exceptions: the
prohibitions of this subsection shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Any vehicles, recreational vehicles, machinery or equipment, or
trailers, being used by a public utility, moving company or similar company,
which are actually being used to serve a residence not belonging to or occupied
by the operator of the vehicle;
      (2)   Any vehicles, recreational vehicles, machinery or equipment, or
trailers, which are actually making a pickup or delivery at the location where
it is parked. Parking shall be allowed only for that period of time reasonably
necessary to make such pickup or delivery;
      (3)   Any vehicles, recreational vehicles, machinery or equipment, or
trailers, stored within a garage or other enclosed structure;
      (4)   Any vehicles, recreational vehicles, machinery or equipment, or
trailers, stored in an auto salvage yard or junkyard lawfully operated within
the City and fully surrounded by a fence of wood construction not less than 72”
in height which acts as a visual obstruction. Salvage materials shall not
exceed 72” in height. Any such auto salvage yard shall be properly licensed as
an authorized vehicle recycler as required by the Code of Iowa;
(Code of Iowa, Sec 321.H)
      (5)   Any vehicles, recreational vehicles, machinery or equipment, or
trailers, stored or parked on unimproved surface during a snow ban; or
      (6)   Lawful nonconforming and permitted uses.
3.   Any violation of this section, unless permitted by Section
69.18, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of residents and shall be
declared a nuisance within the meaning of
Chapter 50 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Clarion. Any person,
corporation, or legal entity who is the owner, whether the legal or equitable
title holder, of property in violation of this section shall be prima facie
liable for said violation.
4.   Towing and Impounding. Any vehicle or trailer in violation of this section
for more than 14 days may be deemed an abandoned vehicle as defined in the Code
of Iowa. Such vehicles and trailers shall be towed and impounded at the owner’s
expense.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89)
(Section 69.17 – Ord. 628 – Nov. 24 Supp.)
69.18   PERMITS FOR APPROVED CIRCUMSTANCES.
Parking in violation of Section
69.17 is prohibited, unless the owner or tenant of the premises on which the
vehicle is parked has been parked has registered said premises with the Chief
of Police pursuant to the procedures set forth by the Council.
1.   To register a premises, the owner or tenant of said premises must be able
to establish to the satisfaction of the Chief of Police that it is impossible
to comply with the restrictions brought forth by Section
69.17.
2.   Fees for permits issued under this section shall be set by resolution of
the Council.
3.   A registered premises shall remain registered until such registration is
revoked at the discretion of the Chief of Police, Mayor, or designated code
official.
CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
 
70.01 Arrest or Citation            70.04 Parking Violations: Vehicle
                                    Unattended
70.02 Scheduled Violations          70.05 Presumption in Reference to Illegal
                                    Parking
70.03 Parking Violations: Alternate 70.06 Impounding Vehicles
 
70.01   ARREST OR CITATION.
Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:
1.   Immediate Arrest. Immediately arrest such person and take such person
before a local magistrate; or
2.   Issue Citation. Without arresting the person, prepare in quintuplicate a
combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the Iowa Commissioner of
Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint utilizing a State-
approved computerized device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 and 321.485)
70.02   SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
For violations of the Traffic Code that are designated by Section 805.8A of the
Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of those
violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 and 805.8A)
70.03   PARKING VIOLATIONS: ALTERNATE.
Uncontested violations of parking restrictions imposed by this Code of
Ordinances shall be charged upon a simple notice of a fine payable at the
office of the City Clerk. The fine for each violation charged under a simple
notice of a fine shall be in the amount of $40.00 for all violations except
improper use of a persons with disabilities parking permit. If such fine is not
paid within 30 days, it shall be increased by $5.00. The fine for improper use
of a persons with disabilities parking permit is $100.00.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1b] and 321L.4[2])
70.04   PARKING VIOLATIONS: VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code, and
the driver is not present, the notice of fine or citation as herein provided
shall be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
70.05   PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred shall be raised by proof that:
1.   Described Vehicle. The particular vehicle described in the information was
parked in violation of the Traffic Code; and
2.   Registered Owner. The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.
70.06   IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
A peace officer is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, a
vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking lot, or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the City, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
1.   Disabled Vehicle. When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
2.   Illegally Parked Vehicle. When any vehicle is left unattended and is so
illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
3.   Snow Removal. When any vehicle is left parked in violation of a ban on
parking during snow removal operations.
4.   Parked Over Limited Time Period. When any vehicle is left parked for a
continuous period in violation of any limited parking time. If the owner can be
located, the owner shall be given an opportunity to remove the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
5.   Costs. In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or driver
of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and storage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
CHAPTER 75
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND SNOWMOBILES
 
75.01 Purpose                  75.05 Operation of ATVs and UTVs
75.02 Definitions              75.06 Negligence
75.03 General Regulations      75.07 Accident Reports
75.04 Operation of Snowmobiles
 
75.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of all-terrain
vehicles and snowmobiles within the City.
75.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than three and not more than six non-highway tires, that is limited in engine
displacement to less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to
less than 1,200 pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled
by the operator and handlebars for steering control.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
2.   “Off-road motorcycle” means a two-wheeled motor vehicle that has a seat or
saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering
control and that is intended by the manufacturer for use on natural terrain.
“Off-road motorcycle” includes a motorcycle that was originally issued a
certificate of title and registered for highway use under Chapter 321 of the
Code of Iowa, but which contains design features that enable operation over
natural terrain. An operator of an off-road motorcycle is also subject to the
provisions of this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
3.   “Off-road utility vehicle” means a motorized vehicle, with not less than
four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized tracks, that has a
seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to be straddled by the
operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for control. “Off-road utility
vehicle” includes the following vehicles:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   A.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 1” includes vehicles with a total dry
weight of 1,200 pounds or less and a width of 50 inches or less.
   B.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 2” includes vehicles, other than Type
1 vehicles, with a total dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less and a width of 65
inches or less.
   C.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 3” includes vehicles with a total dry
weight of more than 2,000 pounds or a width of more than 65 inches, or both.
An operator of an off-road utility vehicle is also subject to the provisions of
this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
4.   “Snowmobile” means a motorized vehicle that weighs less than 1,000 pounds,
that uses sled-type runners or skis, endless belt-type tread with a width of 48
inches or less, or any combination of runners, skis, or tread, and is designed
for travel on snow or ice. “Snowmobile” does not include an all-terrain vehicle
that has been altered or equipped with runners, skis, belt-type tracks, or
treads.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.1)
75.03   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
No person shall operate an ATV, off-road motorcycle, or off-road utility
vehicle within the City in violation of Chapter 321I of the Code of Iowa or a
snowmobile within the City in violation of the provisions of Chapter 321G of
the Code of Iowa or in violation of rules established by the Natural Resource
Commission of the Department of Natural Resources governing their registration,
equipment and manner of operation.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 321G and Ch. 321I)
75.04   OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
The operators of snowmobiles shall comply with the following restrictions as to
where snowmobiles may be operated within the City:
1.   Streets. Snowmobiles shall be operated only upon streets that have not
been plowed during the snow season and on such other streets as may be
designated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4a])
2.   Exceptions. Snowmobiles may be operated on prohibited streets only under
the following circumstances:
   A.   Emergencies. Snowmobiles may be operated on any street in an emergency
during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the roadway
renders travel by conventional motor vehicles impractical.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4c])
   B.   Direct Crossing. Snowmobiles may make a direct crossing of a prohibited
street provided all of the following occur:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
      (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
street;
      (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
      (4)   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such street with another street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[2])
3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on an operating
railroad right-of-way. A snowmobile may be driven directly across a railroad
right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any other
provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.13[1h])
4.   Trails. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on all-terrain vehicle trails
except where so designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4f])
5.   Parks and Other City Land. Snowmobiles shall not be operated in any park,
playground, or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City. A snowmobile shall not be operated on any City land
without a snow cover of at least one-tenth of one inch.
6.   Sidewalk or Parking. Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking” except for
purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized by this chapter.
75.05   OPERATION OF ATVS AND UTVS.
The operators of ATVs and UTVs shall comply with the following restrictions as
to where ATVs and UTVs may be operated within the City:
1.   Streets. ATVs and off-road utility vehicles may be operated on streets
only in accordance with Section 321.234A of the Code of Iowa or on such streets
as may be designated by resolution of the Council for the operation of
registered ATVs or registered off-road utility vehicles. In designating such
streets, the Council may authorize ATVs and off-road utility vehicles to stop
at service stations or convenience stores along a designated street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[1 and 3])
2.   Trails. ATVs and off-road utility vehicles shall not be operated on
snowmobile trails except where designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[4])
3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. ATVs and off-road utility vehicles shall not be
operated on an operating railroad right-of-way. An ATV may be driven directly
across a railroad right-of-way only at an established crossing and
notwithstanding any other provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved
portion of the established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.14[1h])
4.   Parks and Other City Land. ATVs and off-road utility vehicles shall not be
operated in any park, playground, or upon any other City-owned property without
the express permission of the City.
5.   Sidewalk or Parking. ATVs and off-road utility vehicles shall not be
operated upon the public sidewalk or that portion of the street located between
the curb line and the sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the
“parking.”
6.   Direct Crossing. An all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle may
make a direct crossing of a highway provided all of the following occur:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[5])
   A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing.
   B.   The all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle is brought to a
complete stop before crossing the shoulder or main traveled way of the highway.
   C.   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard.
   D.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another public street or highway.
   E.   The crossing is made from a street, roadway, or highway designated as
an all-terrain vehicle trail by any State agency, the County, or the City to a
street, roadway, or highway designated as an all-terrain vehicle trail by any
State agency, the County, or the City.
75.06   NEGLIGENCE.
The owner and operator of an ATV or snowmobile are liable for any injury or
damage occasioned by the negligent operation of the ATV or snowmobile. The
owner of an ATV or snowmobile shall be liable for any such injury or damage
only if the owner was the operator of the ATV or snowmobile at the time the
injury or damage occurred or if the operator had the owner’s consent to operate
the ATV or snowmobile at the time the injury or damage occurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.18 and 321I.19)
75.07   ACCIDENT REPORTS.
Whenever an ATV or snowmobile is involved in an accident resulting in injury or
death to anyone or property damage amounting to $1,500.00 or more, either the
operator or someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify a law
enforcement officer and shall file an accident report, in accordance with State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.10 and 321I.11)
CHAPTER 76
BICYCLE REGULATIONS
 
76.01 Scope of Regulations            76.08 Riding on Sidewalks
76.02 Traffic Code Applies            76.09 Towing
76.03 Double Riding Restricted        76.10 Improper Riding
76.04 Two Abreast Limit               76.11 Parking
76.05 Speed                           76.12 Equipment Requirements
76.06 Emerging From Alley or Driveway 76.13 Special Penalty
76.07 Carrying Articles
 
76.01   SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or
upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to
those exceptions stated herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.02   TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by the laws of the State declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or
by the Traffic Code of the City applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except
as to those provisions that by their nature can have no application. Whenever
such person dismounts from a bicycle, the person shall be subject to all
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234)
76.03   DOUBLE RIDING RESTRICTED.
A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent and
regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons
at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234[3 and 4])
76.04   TWO ABREAST LIMIT.
Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles. All bicycles ridden on the roadway shall be kept to the right and
shall be operated as near as practicable to the right-hand edge of the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.05   SPEED.
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.06   EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk or
sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.07   CARRYING ARTICLES.
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article that
prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.08   RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
The following provisions apply to riding bicycles on sidewalks:
1.   Business District. No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within
the Business District, as defined in Section
60.02(1) of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
2.   Other Locations. When signs are erected on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, no person shall
disobey the signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
3.   Yield Right-of-Way. Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.09   TOWING.
It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to be towed or to tow any other
vehicle upon the streets of the City unless the vehicle is manufactured for
such use.
76.10   IMPROPER RIDING.
No person shall ride a bicycle in an irregular or reckless manner such as
zigzagging, stunting, speeding, or otherwise so as to disregard the safety of
the operator or others.
76.11   PARKING.
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.12   EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
Every person riding a bicycle shall be responsible for providing and using
equipment as provided herein:
1.   Lamps Required. Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped
with a lamp on the front emitting a white light visible from a distance of at
least 300 feet to the front and with a lamp on the rear exhibiting a red light
visible from a distance of 300 feet to the rear, except that a red reflector on
the rear, of a type that is visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet
to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a
motor vehicle, may be used in lieu of a rear light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.397)
2.   Brakes Required. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake that will
enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.13   SPECIAL PENALTY.
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
scheduled fine for bicyclists or standard penalty provided for violations of
this Code of Ordinances, allow the person’s bicycle to be impounded by the City
for not less than five days for the first offense, 10 days for a second
offense, and 30 days for a third offense.
CHAPTER 78
GOLF CARTS
 
78.01 Purpose               78.04 Driver’s License Required
78.02 Definition            78.05 Safety Requirements
78.03 Operation Limitations
 
78.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide rules and regulations for the
operation of golf carts within the City and to establish areas where golf carts
may be used, pursuant to the provisions of Section 321.247 of the Code of Iowa.
78.02   DEFINITION.
For use in this chapter, “golf cart” means any self-propelled vehicle designed
to be used on golf courses.
78.03   OPERATION LIMITATIONS.
Golf carts may be used on public streets of the City between sunup and sundown,
but may not be operated on Main Street, County Road 38, or State HWY 3, except
to cross same.
78.04   DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
No golf carts shall be operated in permitted areas by anyone who does not have
a valid driver’s license as defined in Chapter 321 of the Code of Iowa.
78.05   SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
All golf carts within the meaning of this chapter shall display a slow-moving
vehicle emblem on the rear of said golf carts and have a red bicycle safety
flag on said golf carts and additionally said golf carts must have adequate
brakes.
CHAPTER 80
ABANDONED VEHICLES
 
80.01 Definitions                       80.06 Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
80.02 Authority to Take Possession of   80.07 Disposal of Totally Inoperable
Abandoned Vehicles                      Vehicles
80.03 Notice by Mail                    80.08 Proceeds from Sales
80.04 Reclamation of Abandoned Vehicles 80.09 Duties of Demolisher
80.05 Fees for Impoundment
 
80.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[1] and Sec. 321.90)
1.   “Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:
   A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than 24 hours and lacks current registration plates or two or more wheels or
other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
   B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more than
24 hours.
   C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked or placed on private property
without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property for more
than 24 hours.
   D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of 10 days. However, a police
authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the 10-day period by
commencing the notification process.
   E.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police authority to
create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
   F.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Section 321J.4B of the
Code of Iowa by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the impoundment
fees after notification by the person or agency responsible for carrying out
the impoundment order.
2.   “Demolisher” means a person licensed under Chapter 321H of the Code of
Iowa whose business it is to convert a vehicle to junk, processed scrap, or
scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck, or dismantle vehicles.
3.   “Garage keeper” means any operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle storage facility, or establishment for the servicing, repair, or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
4.   “Police authority” means the Iowa State Patrol or any law enforcement
agency of a county or city.
80.02   AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
A police authority, upon the authority’s own initiative or upon the request of
any other authority having the duties of control of highways or traffic, shall
take into custody an abandoned vehicle on public property and may take into
custody any abandoned vehicle on private property. The police authority may
employ its own personnel, equipment, and facilities or hire a private entity,
equipment, and facilities for the purpose of removing, preserving, storing, or
disposing of abandoned vehicles. A property owner or other person in control of
private property may employ a private entity that is a garage keeper to dispose
of an abandoned vehicle, and the private entity may take into custody the
abandoned vehicle without a police authority’s initiative. If a police
authority employs a private entity to dispose of abandoned vehicles, the police
authority shall provide the private entity with the names and addresses of the
registered owners, all lienholders of record, and any other known claimant to
the vehicle or the personal property found in the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[2])
80.03   NOTICE BY MAIL.
1.   A police authority or private entity that takes into custody an abandoned
vehicle shall send notice by certified mail that the vehicle has been taken
into custody, no more than 20 days after taking custody of the vehicle. Notice
shall be sent to the last known address of record of the last known registered
owner of the vehicle, all lienholders of record, and any other known claimant
to the vehicle.
2.   Notice shall be deemed given when mailed. The notice shall include all of
the following:
   A.   A description of the year, make, model and vehicle identification
number of the vehicle.
   B.   The location of the facility where the vehicle is being held.
   C.   Information for the persons receiving the notice of their right to
reclaim the vehicle and personal property contained therein within 10 days
after the effective date of the notice. Persons may reclaim the vehicle or
personal property upon payment of all towing, preservation, and storage charges
resulting from placing the vehicle in custody and upon payment of the costs of
the notice required pursuant to this section.
   D.   A statement that failure of the owner, lienholders, or claimants to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
time provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner, lienholders, and claimants
of all right, title, claim, and interest in the vehicle or personal property.
   E.   A statement that failure to reclaim the vehicle or personal property is
deemed consent for the police authority or private entity to sell the vehicle
at a public auction or dispose of the vehicle to a demolisher and to dispose of
the personal property by sale or destruction.
3.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a private entity
without a police authority’s initiative, the notice shall state that the
private entity may claim a garage keeper’s lien as described in Section 321.90,
Subsection 1, of the Code of Iowa, and may proceed to sell or dispose of the
vehicle.
4.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a police authority or
by a private entity hired by a police authority, the notice shall state that
any person claiming rightful possession of the vehicle or personal property who
disputes the planned disposition of the vehicle or property by the police
authority or private entity, or of the assessment of fees and charges provided
by this section, may ask for an evidentiary hearing before the police authority
to contest those matters.
5.   If the persons receiving notice do not ask for a hearing or exercise their
right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the 10-day reclaiming
period, the owner, lienholders, or claimants shall no longer have any right,
title, claim, or interest in or to the vehicle or the personal property.
6.   A court in any case in law or equity shall not recognize any right, title,
claim, or interest of the owner, lienholders, or claimants after the expiration
of the 10-day reclaiming period.
7.   If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identities
and addresses of the last registered owner and all lienholders, notice by one
publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of notice
under Subsection 2 of this section. The published notice may contain multiple
listings of abandoned vehicles, but shall be published within the same time
requirements and contain the same information as prescribed for mailed notice
in Subsection 2 of this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3])
80.04   RECLAMATION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
Prior to driving an abandoned vehicle away from the premises, a person who
received (or who is reclaiming the vehicle on behalf of a person who received)
notice under Section
80.03 shall present to the police authority or private entity, as applicable,
the person’s valid driver’s license and proof of financial liability coverage
as provided in Section 321.20B of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.05   FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
The owner, lienholder, or claimant shall pay all towing and storage fees as
established by the storage facility, whereupon the vehicle shall be released.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.06   DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided herein, the police
authority or private entity shall make a determination as to whether or not the
motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways, and shall dispose of
the motor vehicle in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.07   DISPOSAL OF TOTALLY INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
The City or any person upon whose property or in whose possession is found any
abandoned motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle whose
title certificate is faulty, lost, or destroyed, may dispose of such motor
vehicle to a demolisher for junk, without a title and without notification
procedures, if such motor vehicle lacks an engine or two or more wheels or
other structural part which renders the vehicle totally inoperable. The police
authority shall give the applicant a certificate of authority. The applicant
shall then apply to the County Treasurer for a junking certificate and shall
surrender the certificate of authority in lieu of the certificate of title.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[2e])
80.08   PROCEEDS FROM SALES.
Proceeds from the sale of any abandoned vehicle shall be applied to the expense
of auction, cost of towing, preserving, storing, and notification required, in
accordance with State law. Any balance shall be held for the owner of the motor
vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days, and then shall be deposited in the
State Road Use Tax Fund. Where the sale of any vehicle fails to realize the
amount necessary to meet costs the police authority shall apply for
reimbursement from the Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.09   DUTIES OF DEMOLISHER.
Any demolisher who purchases or otherwise acquires an abandoned motor vehicle
for junk shall junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or otherwise demolish such motor
vehicle. A demolisher shall not junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or demolish a
vehicle until the demolisher has obtained the junking certificate issued for
the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[3a])
CHAPTER 81
RAILROAD REGULATIONS
 
81.01 Definitions         81.03 Crossing Maintenance
81.02 Obstructing Streets
 
81.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Operator” means any individual, partnership, corporation, or other
association that owns, operates, drives, or controls a railroad train.
2.   “Railroad train” means an engine or locomotive, with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)
81.02   OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
Operators shall not operate any train in such a manner as to prevent vehicular
use of any highway, street, or alley for a period of time in excess of 10
minutes except:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 327G.32)
1.   Comply with Signals. When necessary to comply with signals affecting the
safety of the movement of trains.
2.   Avoid Striking. When necessary to avoid striking any object or person on
the track.
3.   Disabled. When the train is disabled.
4.   Safety Regulations. When necessary to comply with governmental safety
regulations including, but not limited to, speed ordinances and speed
regulations.
5.   In Motion. When the train is in motion except while engaged in switching
operations.
6.   No Traffic. When there is no vehicular traffic waiting to use the
crossing.
An employee is not guilty of a violation of this section if the employee’s
action was necessary to comply with the direct order or instructions of a
railroad corporation or its supervisors. Guilt is then with the railroad
corporation.
81.03   CROSSING MAINTENANCE.
Operators shall construct and maintain good, sufficient, and safe crossings
over any street traversed by their rails.
(Bourett vs. Chicago and N.W. Ry. 152 Iowa 579, 132 N.W. 973 [1943])
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.11)
CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
90.01 Definitions                    90.11 Installation of Water Service Pipe
90.02 Public Works Director’s Dutie90.12 Responsibility for Water Service
                                     Pipe
90.03 Mandatory Connections          90.13 Failure to Maintain
90.04 Abandoned Connections          90.14 Curb Valve
90.05 Permit                         90.15 Interior Valve
90.06 Fee for Permit and Connection  90.16 Inspection and Approval
Charge
90.07 Compliance with Plumbing Code  90.17 Completion by the City
90.08 Plumber Required               90.18 Shutting Off Water Supply
90.09 Excavations                    90.19 Operation of Curb Valve and Hydrants
90.10 Tapping Mains
 
90.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in the chapters in this Code of
Ordinances pertaining to the Water Service System:
1.   “Combined service account” means a customer service account for the
provision of two or more utility services.
2.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person receiving water service from
the City, the owner of the property served, and as between such parties the
duties, responsibilities, liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed
shall be joint and several.
3.   “Water main” means a water supply pipe provided for public or community
use.
4.   “Water service pipe” means the pipe from the water main to the building
served.
5.   “Water system” or “water works” means all public facilities for securing,
collecting, storing, pumping, treating, and distributing water.
90.02   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR’S DUTIES.
The Public Works Director shall supervise the installation of water service
pipes and their connection to the water main and enforce all regulations
pertaining to water services in the City in accordance with this chapter. This
chapter shall apply to all replacements of existing water service pipes as well
as to new ones. The Public Works Director shall make such rules, not in
conflict with the provisions of this chapter, as may be needed for the detailed
operation of the water system, subject to the approval of the Council. In the
event of an emergency the Public Works Director may make temporary rules for
the protection of the system until due consideration by the Council may be had.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
90.03   MANDATORY CONNECTIONS.
All residences and business establishments within the City limits intended or
used for human habitation, occupancy or use shall be connected to the public
water system, if it is reasonably available and if the building is not
furnished with pure and wholesome water from some other source.
90.04   ABANDONED CONNECTIONS.
When an existing water service is abandoned or a service is renewed with a new
tap in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains shall be turned off
at the corporation stop and made absolutely watertight.
90.05   PERMIT.
Before any person makes a connection with the public water system, a written
permit must be obtained from the City. The application for the permit shall
include a legal description of the property, the name of the property owner,
the name and address of the person who will do the work, and the general uses
of the water. If the proposed work meets all the requirements of this chapter
and if all fees required under this chapter have been paid, the permit shall be
issued. Work under any permit must be completed within 60 days after the permit
is issued, except that when such time period is inequitable or unfair due to
conditions beyond the control of the person making the application, an
extension of time within which to complete the work may be granted. The permit
may be revoked at any time for any violation of these chapters.
90.06   FEE FOR PERMIT AND CONNECTION CHARGE.
Before any permit is issued the person who makes the application shall pay a
fee to the Clerk to cover the cost of issuing the permit and supervising,
regulating, and inspecting the work. The amount of the permit fee shall be
established by resolution of the Council. In addition, there shall be a
connection charge in the amount of $150.00 paid before issuance of a permit, to
reimburse the City for costs borne by the City in making water service
available to the property served.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
90.07   COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
The installation of any water service pipe and any connection with the water
system shall comply with all pertinent and applicable provisions, whether
regulatory, procedural, or enforcement provisions, of the State Plumbing Code.
90.08   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of water service pipes and connections to the water system
shall be made by a State-licensed plumber.
90.09   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required in making a connection
shall be performed in accordance with the State Plumbing Code and the
provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
90.10   TAPPING MAINS.
Any tap into a water main shall be subject to a tapping charge, in the amount
established by resolution of the Council, to be paid to the Clerk prior to
tapping into the water main. All taps into water mains shall be made by, or
under the direct supervision of, the Public Works Director, and in accordance
with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Independent Services. No more than one house, building, or premises shall
be supplied from one tap unless special written permission is obtained from the
Public Works Director and unless provision is made so that each house,
building, or premises may be shut off independently of the other.
2.   Sizes and Location of Taps. All mains six inches or less in diameter shall
receive no larger than a three-fourths inch tap. All mains of over six inches
in diameter shall receive no larger than a one-inch tap. Where a larger
connection than a one-inch tap is desired, two or more small taps or saddles
shall be used, as the Public Works Director shall order. All taps in the mains
shall be made in the top half of the pipe, at least 18 inches apart. No main
shall be tapped nearer than two feet of the joint in the main.
3.   Corporation Stop. A brass corporation stop, of the pattern and weight
approved by the Public Works Director, shall be inserted in every tap in the
main. The corporation stop in the main shall be of the same size as the service
pipe.
4.   Location Record. An accurate and dimensional sketch showing the exact
location of the tap shall be filed with the Public Works Director in such form
as the Public Works Director shall require.
90.11   INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE PIPE.
Water service pipes from the main to the meter setting shall be Type K copper.
The use of any other pipe material for the service line shall first be approved
by the Public Works Director. Pipe must be laid sufficiently waving, and to
such depth, as to prevent rupture from settlement or freezing.
90.12   RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER SERVICE PIPE.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the water service pipe from the corporation valve to the meter
valve, not including the curb valve, shall be borne by the owner. The owner
shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation or maintenance of said water
service pipe.
90.13   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
When any portion of the water service pipe which is the responsibility of the
property owner becomes defective or creates a nuisance and the owner fails to
correct such nuisance, the City may do so and assess the costs thereof to the
property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a and h])
90.14   CURB VALVE.
There shall be installed within the public right-of-way a main shut-off valve
on the water service pipe of a pattern approved by the Public Works Director.
The shut-off valve shall be constructed to be visible and even with the
pavement or ground.
90.15   INTERIOR VALVE.
There shall be installed a shut-off valve on every service pipe inside the
building as close to the entrance of the pipe within the building as possible
and so located that the water can be shut off conveniently. Where one service
pipe supplies more than one customer within the building, there shall be
separate valves for each such customer so that service may be shut off for one
without interfering with service to the others.
90.16   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
All water service pipes and their connections to the water system must be
inspected and approved in writing by the Public Works Director before they are
covered, and the Public Works Director shall keep a record of such approvals.
If the Public Works Director refuses to approve the work, the plumber or
property owner must proceed immediately to correct the work. Every person who
uses or intends to use the municipal water system shall permit the Public Works
Director to enter the premises to inspect or make necessary alterations or
repairs at all reasonable hours and on proof of authority.
90.17   COMPLETION BY THE CITY.
Should any excavation be left open or only partly refilled for 24 hours after
the water service pipe is installed and connected with the water system, or
should the work be improperly done, the City shall have the right to finish or
correct the work, and the Council shall assess the costs to the property owner
or the plumber. If the plumber is assessed, the plumber must pay the costs
before receiving another permit. If the property owner is assessed, such
assessment may be collected with and in the same manner as general property
taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a and h])
90.18   SHUTTING OFF WATER SUPPLY.
The Public Works Director may shut off the supply of water to any customer
because of any violation of the regulations contained in these Water Service
System chapters that is not being contested in good faith. The supply shall not
be turned on again until all violations have been corrected and the Public
Works Director has ordered the water to be turned on.
90.19   OPERATION OF CURB VALVE AND HYDRANTS.
It is unlawful for any person except the Public Works Director to turn water on
at the curb valve, and no person, unless specifically authorized by the City,
shall open or attempt to draw water from any fire hydrant for any purpose
whatsoever.
CHAPTER 91
WATER METERS
 
91.01 Purpose                           91.06 Meter Costs
91.02 Water Use Metered                 91.07 Meter Repairs
91.03 Fire Sprinkler Systems; Exception 91.08 Right of Entry
91.04 Location of Meters                91.09 Meter Installation Fee
91.05 Meter Setting
 
91.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the conservation of water and
facilitate the equitable distribution of charges for water service among
customers.
91.02   WATER USE METERED.
All water furnished customers shall be measured through meters furnished by the
City and installed by the City.
91.03   FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS; EXCEPTION.
Fire sprinkler systems may be connected to water mains by direct connection
without meters under the direct supervision of the Public Works Director. No
other open, unmetered connection shall be incorporated in the system, and there
shall be no valves except a main control valve at the entrance to the building
which must be sealed open.
91.04   LOCATION OF METERS.
All meters shall be so located that they are easily accessible to meter readers
and repairmen and protected from freezing.
91.05   METER SETTING.
The property owner shall provide all necessary piping and fittings for proper
setting of the meter including a valve on the discharge side of the meter.
Meter pits may be used only upon approval of the Public Works Director and
shall be of a design and construction approved by the Public Works Director.
91.06   METER COSTS.
1.   Installation. All meters will be owned and maintained by the City Water
Department. All meters must be the same type and from the same manufacturer
used by the City or approved by the City. The City shall either install the
water meter(s) or approve the installation of the meter by a licensed plumber
prior to receiving water service. The installation fee for meters will be set
by resolution of the City Council. The City Water Department shall have the
final authority to determine the appropriate size of the meter based on the
service requested.
2.   Meter Installation Fees. The property owner shall pay an installation fee
for every meter installed according to the fee schedule approved by the City
Council prior to installation. Property owners requiring a meter larger than a
three-quarter inch meter shall pay to the City, prior to the installation of
any such meter by the City or an approved licensed plumber, the additional
costs for said larger meter.
3.   Meter Deposits. A deposit, an amount established by resolution of the City
Council, will be required before any new meter installation or transfer of a
current meter for any new consumer is made. Said deposit is to be refunded upon
the surrendering of the meter and when all bills for water used, repairs, etc.,
are paid in full. In the case of the consumer moving from one location to
another within the City, and service remaining with the same named consumer,
the deposit will be transferred.
(Section 91.06 – Ord. 619 – Aug. 23 Supp.)
91.07   METER REPAIRS.
Whenever a water meter owned by the City is found to be out of order the Public
Works Director shall have it repaired. If it is found that damage to the meter
has occurred due to the carelessness or negligence of the customer or property
owner, or the meter is not owned by the City, then the property owner shall be
liable for the cost of repairs.
91.08   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Public Works Director shall be permitted to enter the premises of any
customer at any reasonable time to read, remove, or change a meter.
91.09   METER INSTALLATION FEE.
(Repealed by Ordinance No. 619 – Aug. 23 Supp.)
CHAPTER 92
WATER RATES
 
92.01 Service Charges           92.05 Lien for Nonpayment
92.02 Rates and Service         92.06 Lien Exemption
92.03 Billing for Water Service 92.07 Lien Notice
92.04 Service Discontinued      92.08 Temporary Vacancy
 
92.01   SERVICE CHARGES.
Each customer shall pay for water service provided by the City based upon use
of water as determined by meters provided for in
Chapter 91. Each location, building, premises, or connection shall be
considered a separate and distinct customer whether owned or controlled by the
same person or not.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.02   RATES AND SERVICE.
1.   Each customer shall pay water service fee, beginning on April 15th of each
year, in accordance with the following:
   2023: $16.35 per month, plus $8.97 per 1,000 gallons of water used
   2024: $17.17 per month, plus $9.42 per 1,000 gallons of water used
   2025: $18.03 per month, plus $9.89 per 1,000 gallons of water used
   2026: $18.93 per month, plus $10.38 per 1,000 gallons of water used
   2027: $19.88 per month, plus $10.90 per 1,000 gallons of water used
2.   In the event an existing industry or new industry projects the employment
of at least 20 additional persons on a full time equivalent (FTE) basis over a
two-year period, and capital expenditures of $500,000.00 or more in said same
two-year period for building and/or machinery and equipment purchases, and
agrees to not drill a private fresh water well within the City corporate
limits, the City may grant an economic development incentive water user rebate
which will be a percentage of the standard rate as follows:
   1st year:   50%
   2nd year:   50%
   3rd year:   50%
   4th year:   20%
   5th year:   10%
After the fifth year, no rebate shall apply. If employment projections are not
met within said two-year period, then said industry shall, upon notice by the
City, repay said rebate amounts.
3.   Water service to any customer for a structure containing more than one
dwelling unit, as defined by the Clarion Zoning Ordinance, shall be subject to
a minimum monthly charge based on the multiplication of base service fee times
a number which is 80 percent of the number of dwelling units in the structure.
4.   Beginning in 2028, the monthly per-gallon rate set out in Subsection 1 of
this section shall be increased by five percent (5%) annually.
(Section 92.02 – Ord. 617 – Aug. 23 Supp.)
92.03   BILLING FOR WATER SERVICE.
Water service shall be billed as part of a combined service account, payable in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Bills Issued. The Utility Billing Clerk shall prepare, date, and issue
bills for combined service accounts. Bills shall be deemed issued as of the
date indicated on the bills.
2.   Bills Payable. Bills for combined service accounts shall be due and
payable at the City Hall by the twentieth day of the month. Should the
twentieth day of the month fall on a day of the weekend or on a holiday in
which City Hall is closed, said bill shall be due and payable by noon of the
next business day.
3.   Late Payment Penalty. Bills not paid when due shall be considered
delinquent and shall be charged a penalty in an amount established by
resolution of the Council.
(Section 92.03 – Ord. 630 – Nov. 24 Supp.)
92.04   SERVICE DISCONTINUED.
Water service to delinquent customers shall be discontinued or disconnected in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Notice. The Utility Billing Clerk shall notify each delinquent customer
that service will be discontinued or disconnected if payment of the combined
service account, including late payment charges, is not received by the date
specified in the notice of delinquency. Such notice shall be sent by ordinary
mail to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred and
shall inform the customer of the nature of the delinquency and afford the
customer the opportunity for a hearing prior to the discontinuance or
disconnection.
2.   Notice to Landlords. If the customer is a tenant, and if the owner or
landlord of the property or premises has made a written request for notice, the
notice of delinquency shall also be given to the owner or landlord. If the
customer is a tenant and requests a change of name for service under the
account, such request shall be sent to the owner or landlord of the property if
the owner or landlord has made a written request for notice of any change of
name for service under the account to the rental property.
3.   Hearing. If a hearing is requested by noon of the day preceding the shut
off, the City Administrator and Public Works Director shall conduct an informal
hearing and shall make a determination as to whether the discontinuance or
disconnection is justified. If it is found that discontinuance or disconnection
is justified, then such discontinuance or disconnection shall be made, unless
payment has been received.
4.   Fees. Fees, including, but not limited to, those for providing necessary
notice of service discontinuation or disconnection, in an amount established by
resolution of the Council shall be charged before service is restored to a
delinquent customer. No fee shall be charged for the usual and customary trips
in the regular changes in occupancies of property.
(Section 92.04 – Ord. 630 – Nov. 24 Supp.)
92.05   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
The owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for water service charges to the premises. Water
service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon
the property or premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the
County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.06   LIEN EXEMPTION.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Water Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall not apply to
charges for water service to a residential or commercial rental property where
water service is separately metered and the rates or charges for the water
service are paid directly to the City by the tenant, if the landlord gives
written notice to the City that the property is residential or commercial
rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or charges. The
City may require a deposit not exceeding the usual cost of 90 days of such
services to be paid to the City. When the tenant moves from the rental
property, the City shall refund the deposit if all service charges are paid in
full. The lien exemption does not apply to delinquent charges for repairs
related to any of the services.
2.   Other Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall also not apply to
the charges for any of the services of sewer systems, stormwater drainage
systems, sewage treatment, solid waste collection, and solid waste disposal for
a residential rental property where the charge is paid directly to the City by
the tenant, if the landlord gives written notice to the City that the property
is residential rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or
charges for such service. The City may require a deposit not exceeding the
usual cost of 90 days of such services to be paid to the City. When the tenant
moves from the rental property, the City shall refund the deposit if all
service charges are paid in full. The lien exemption does not apply to
delinquent charges for repairs related to any of the services.
3.   Written Notice. The landlord’s written notice shall contain the name of
the tenant responsible for charges, the address of the residential or
commercial rental property that the tenant is to occupy, and the date that the
occupancy begins. Upon receipt, the City shall acknowledge the notice and
deposit. A change in tenant for a residential rental property shall require a
new written notice to be given to the City within 30 business days of the
change in tenant. A change in tenant for a commercial rental property shall
require a new written notice to be given to the City within 10 business days of
the change in tenant. A change in the ownership of the residential rental
property shall require written notice of such change to be given to the City
within 30 business days of the completion of the change of ownership. A change
in the ownership of the commercial rental property shall require written notice
of such change to be given to the City within 10 business days of the
completion of the change of ownership.
4.   Mobile Homes, Modular Homes, and Manufactured Homes. A lien for nonpayment
of utility services described in Subsections 1 and 2 of this section shall not
be placed upon a premises that is a mobile home, modular home, or manufactured
home if the mobile home, modular home, or manufactured home is owned by a
tenant of and located in a mobile home park or manufactured home community and
the mobile home park or manufactured home community owner or manager is the
account holder, unless the lease agreement specifies that the tenant is
responsible for payment of a portion of the rates or charges billed to the
account holder.
92.07   LIEN NOTICE.
A lien for delinquent water service charges shall not be certified to the
County Treasurer unless prior written notice of intent to certify a lien is
given to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred. If
the customer is a tenant and if the owner or landlord of the property or
premises has made a written request for notice, the notice shall also be given
to the owner or landlord. The notice shall be sent to the appropriate persons
by ordinary mail not less than 30 days prior to certification of the lien to
the County Treasurer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.08   TEMPORARY VACANCY.
A property owner may request water service be temporarily discontinued and shut
off at the curb valve when the property is expected to be vacant for an
extended period of time. There shall be collected a fee in an amount
established by resolution of the Council for restoring service. During a period
when service is temporarily discontinued as provided herein there shall be no
minimum service charge. The City will not drain pipes or pull meters for
temporary vacancies.
CHAPTER 93
WELL CONTROL ZONES
 
93.01 Control Zones Established 93.04 Additional Control Zones
93.02 Control Zone 1            93.05 Violation Abatement
93.03 Control Zone 2            93.06 Penalty
 
93.01   CONTROL ZONES ESTABLISHED.
“Control Zone 1” herein referred to consists of all lands located within a
distance of 100 feet from the location of City wells, and “Control Zone 2”
herein referred to consists of all lands located within a distance of 200 feet
from the location of City wells.
93.02   CONROL ZONE 1.
It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, or group of persons to use, to
erect, or cause to be erected within “Control Zone 1” any of the following
structures, uses, or activities:
1.   Concrete vaults and septic tanks.
2.   Chemical application to ground surface.
3.   Chemical and mineral storage above ground.
4.   Earthen silage storage trench or pit.
5.   Railroads.
93.03   CONTROL ZONE 2.
It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, or group of persons to use, to
erect, or cause to be erected within “Control Zone 2” any of the following
structures, uses, or activities:
1.   Cemetery.
2.   Cesspool and earth pit privies.
3.   Chemical and mineral storage on or underground.
4.   Private well.
5.   Soil absorption field.
6.   Mechanical wastewater treatment plant.
7.   Land application of solid wastes.
8.   Irrigation of wastewater.
9.   Animal enclosure.
10.   Land application of liquid or slurry animal wastes.
11.   Land application of solid animal wastes.
12.   Solid animal wastes stockpile.
13.   Animal wastes storage tank.
14.   Transmission pipelines (such as fertilizer, liquid petroleum, or
anhydrous ammonia).
15.   Geothermal (GHEX) loop boreholes.
93.04   ADDITIONAL CONTROL ZONES.
It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, or group of persons to use, to
erect, or cause to be erected within the stated distances any of the following
structures, uses, or activities:
1.   Sanitary & industrial discharges – 400 feet.
2.   Water treatment plant wastes – 50 feet.
3.   Well house floor drains – 5 feet.
4.   Sanitary & storm sewers, drains.
   A.   0-25 feet: Prohibited.
   B.   25-75 feet: Water main piping material only.
   C.   75-200 feet: Water main or sanitary sewer piping material only.
5.   Sewer force mains.
   A.   0-75 feet: Prohibited.
   B.   75-400 feet: Water main piping material only.
   C.   400-1000 feet: Water main or sanitary sewer piping material only.
6.   Water plant treatment process wastes that are treated onsite.
   A.   0-5 feet: Prohibited.
   B.   5-50 feet: Water main or sanitary sewer piping material only.
7.   Water plant wastes to sanitary sewer.
   A.   0-25 feet: Prohibited.
   B.   25-75 feet: Water main piping material only.
   C.   75-200 feet: Water main or sanitary sewer piping material only.
8.   Well house floor drains to sewers.
   A.   0-25 feet: Prohibited.
   B.   25-75 feet: Water main piping material only.
   C.   75-200 feet: Water main or sanitary sewer piping material only.
9.   Well house floor drains to surface.
   A.   0-5 feet: Prohibited.
   B.   5-50 feet: Water main or sanitary sewer piping material only.
10.   Lagoons – 400 feet.
11.   Animal pasturage – 50 feet.
12.   Animal wastes storage basin or lagoon – 400 feet.
13.   Basements, pits, sumps – 10 feet.
14.   Cisterns – 50 feet.
15.   Flowing streams or other surface water bodies – 50 feet.
16.   Solid waste landfills and disposal sites – 1000 feet.
93.05   VIOLATION ABATEMENT.
Any person, persons, or group of persons found to be violating any provisions
of this chapter shall be served by the City with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, satisfactorily correct said violations and permanently
cease all violations.
93.06   PENALTY.
Any person, persons, or group of persons who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in Section
93.05 shall be guilty of a municipal infraction in accordance with
Chapter 4 of this Code of Ordinances. Every day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
 
95.01 Purpose                                   95.06 Service Outside the City
95.02 Definitions                               95.07 Right of Entry
95.03 Public Works Director’s Powers and Dutie95.08 Use of Easements
95.04 Prohibited Acts                           95.09 Special Penalties
95.05 Sewer Connection Required                 95.10 Abandoned Sewer Lines
 
95.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Sanitary
Sewers is to establish rules and regulations governing the treatment and
disposal of sanitary sewage within the City in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
95.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise,
the following terms are defined:
1.   “B.O.D.” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20?, expressed in milligrams per liter or
parts per million.
2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
3.   “Building sewer” means that part of the horizontal piping from the
building wall to its connection with the main sewer or the primary treatment
portion of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system conveying the
drainage of one building site.
4.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface run-off and sewage.
5.   “Customer” means any person responsible for the production of domestic,
commercial, or industrial waste that is directly or indirectly discharged into
the public sewer system.
6.   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of
produce.
7.   “Industrial wastes” means the liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
8.   “Inspector” means the person duly authorized by the Council to inspect and
approve the installation of building sewers and their connections to the public
sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged therefrom.
9.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake,
or other body of surface or groundwater.
10.   “On-site wastewater treatment and disposal system” means all equipment
and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment,
and disposal of wastewater from four or fewer dwelling units or other
facilities serving the equivalent of 15 persons (1,500 gpd) or less.
11.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions
in grams per liter of solution.
12.   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties
have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
13.   “Sanitary sewage” means sewage discharging from the sanitary conveniences
of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office buildings,
factories, or institutions, and free from storm, surface water, and industrial
waste.
14.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer that carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
15.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with
such ground, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
16.   “Sewage treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and structures
used for treating sewage.
17.   “Sewage works” or “sewage system” means all facilities for collecting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
18.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
19.   “Sewer service charges” means any and all charges, rates or fees levied
against and payable by customers, as consideration for the servicing of said
customers by said sewer system.
20.   “Slug” means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste that in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
21.   “Storm drain” or “storm sewer” means a sewer that carries storm and
surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
22.   “Suspended solids” means solids that either float on the surface of, or
are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and that are removable by
laboratory filtering.
23.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
95.03   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR’S POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Public Works Director shall exercise the following powers and duties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Operation and Maintenance. Operate and maintain the City sewage system.
2.   Inspection and Tests. Conduct necessary inspections and tests to assure
compliance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
3.   Records. Maintain a complete and accurate record of all sewers, sewage
connections, and manholes constructed showing the location and grades thereof.
95.04   PROHIBITED ACTS.
No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:
1.   Damage Sewer System. Maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment that is a part of the sewer system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
2.   Surface Run-Off or Groundwater. Connect a roof downspout, sump pump,
exterior foundation drain, areaway drain, or other source of surface run-off or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
3.   Manholes. Open or enter any manhole of the sewer system, except by
authority of the Public Works Director.
4.   Objectionable Wastes. Place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on public
or private property within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
5.   Septic Tanks. Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage except
as provided in these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
6.   Untreated Discharge. Discharge to any natural outlet within the City, or
in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
95.05   SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
The owners of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in
the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer, are hereby required
to install, at such owner’s expense, suitable toilet facilities therein and a
building sewer connecting such facilities directly with the proper public
sewer, and to maintain the same all in accordance with the provisions of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters, such compliance to be completed within 60 days after
date of official notice from the City to do so provided that said public sewer
is located within 250 feet of the property line of such owner and is of such
design as to receive and convey by gravity such sewage as may be conveyed to
it. Billing for sanitary sewer service will begin the date of official notice
to connect to the public sewer. However, compliance with this section shall be
waived for any property upon which adequate on-site sewage treatment facilities
exist as of January 1, 2008, or as of the date of annexation of such property
to the City, unless or until such existing facilities are determined to fail to
provide adequate provision of sewage treatment in compliance with all
applicable local, State, and federal regulations.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
95.06   SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
The owners of property outside the corporate limits of the City so situated
that it may be served by the City sewer system may apply to the Council for
permission to connect to the public sewer upon the terms and conditions
stipulated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
95.07   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Public Works Director and other duly authorized employees of the City
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
The Public Works Director or representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
95.08   USE OF EASEMENTS.
The Public Works Director and other duly authorized employees of the City
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
95.09   SPECIAL PENALTIES.
The following special penalty provisions shall apply to violations of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters:
1.   Notice of Violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
these chapters except Subsections 1, 3, and 4 of Section
95.04, shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
2.   Continuing Violations. Any person who shall continue any violation beyond
the time limit provided for in Subsection 1 hereof shall be in violation of
this Code of Ordinances. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
3.   Liability Imposed. Any person violating any of the provisions of these
chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the City by reason of such violation.
95.10   ABANDONED SEWER LINES.
When an existing sanitary sewer service is abandoned or a service is renewed
with a new connection in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains
shall be capped off and made absolutely watertight.
CHAPTER 96
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
 
96.01 Permit                  96.06 Interceptors Required
96.02 Connection Charge       96.07 Sewer Tap
96.03 Plumber Required        96.08 Inspection Required
96.04 Excavations             96.09 Property Owner’s Responsibility
96.05 Connection Requirements 96.10 Abatement of Violations
 
96.01   PERMIT.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into,
use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the City. The application for the permit shall
set forth the location and description of the property to be connected with the
sewer system and the purpose for which the sewer is to be used, and shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent. The permit shall require the owner to complete construction and
connection of the building sewer to the public sewer within 60 days after the
issuance of the permit, except that when a property owner makes sufficient
showing that due to conditions beyond the owner’s control or peculiar hardship,
such time period is inequitable or unfair, an extension of time within which to
comply with the provisions herein may be granted. Any sewer connection permit
may be revoked at any time for a violation of these chapters.
96.02   CONNECTION CHARGE.
The person who makes the application shall pay a connection charge in the
amount of $75.00 paid to reimburse the City for costs borne by the City in
making sewer service available to the property served.
96.03   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of building sewers and connections to the public sewer shall
be made by a State-licensed plumber.
96.04   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required for the installation of a
building sewer shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the
State Plumbing Code and the provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
96.05   CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
Any connection with a public sanitary sewer must be made under the direct
supervision of the Public Works Director and in accordance with the following:
1.   Old Building Sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test conducted by
the owner and observed by the Public Works Director, to meet all requirements
of this chapter.
2.   Separate Building Sewers. A separate and independent building sewer shall
be provided for every occupied building; except where one building stands at
the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can
be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or
driveway. In such cases the building sewer from the front building may be
extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
3.   Installation. The installation and connection of the building sewer to the
public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the State Plumbing Code and
applicable rules and regulations of the City. All such connections shall be
made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Public Works Director before installation.
4.   Water Lines. When possible, building sewers should be laid at least 10
feet horizontally from a water service. The horizontal separation may be less,
provided the water service line is located at one side and at least 12 inches
above the top of the building sewer.
5.   Size. Building sewers shall be sized for the peak expected sewage flow
from the building with a minimum building sewer size of four inches.
6.   Alignment and Grade. All building sewers shall be laid to a straight line
to meet the following:
   A.   Recommended grade at one-fourth inch per foot.
   B.   Minimum grade of one-eighth inch per foot.
   C.   Minimum velocity of two feet per second with the sewer half full.
   D.   Any deviation in alignment or grade shall be made only with the written
approval of the Public Works Director and shall be made only with approved
fittings.
7.   Depth. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. The depth of cover above the
sewer shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
8.   Sewage Lifts. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building
sewer.
9.   Pipe Specifications. Building sewer pipe shall be free from flaws, splits,
or breaks. Materials shall be as specified in the State Plumbing Code except
that the building sewer pipe, from the property line to the public sewer, shall
comply with the current edition of one of the following:
   A.   Clay sewer pipe – A.S.T.M. C-700 (extra strength).
   B.   Extra heavy cast iron soil pipe – A.S.T.M. A-74.
   C.   Ductile iron water pipe – A.W.W.A. C-151.
   D.   P.V.C. – SDR26 – A.S.T.M. D-3034.
10.   Bearing Walls. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within
three feet of any bearing wall that might thereby be weakened.
11.   Jointing. Fittings, type of joint and jointing material shall be
compatible with the type of pipe used, subject to the approval of the Public
Works Director. Solvent-welded joints are not permitted.
12.   Unstable Soil. No sewer connection shall be laid so that it is exposed
when crossing any watercourse. Where an old watercourse must of necessity be
crossed or where there is any danger of undermining or settlement, cast iron
soil pipe or vitrified clay sewer pipe thoroughly encased in concrete shall be
required for such crossings. Such encasement shall extend at least six inches
on all sides of the pipe. The cast iron pipe or encased clay pipe shall rest on
firm, solid material at either end.
13.   Preparation of Basement or Crawl Space. No connection for any residence,
business or other structure with any sanitary sewer shall be made unless the
basement floor is poured, or in the case of a building with a slab or crawl
space, unless the ground floor is installed with the area adjacent to the
foundation of such building cleared of debris and backfilled. The backfill
shall be well compacted and graded so that the drainage is away from the
foundation. Prior to the time the basement floor is poured, or the first floor
is installed in buildings without basements, the sewer shall be plugged and the
plug shall be sealed by the Public Works Director. Any accumulation of water in
any excavation or basement during construction and prior to connection to the
sanitary sewer shall be removed by means other than draining into the sanitary
sewer.
96.06   INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
Grease, oil, sludge, and sand interceptors shall be provided by gas and service
stations, convenience stores, car washes, garages, and other facilities when,
in the opinion of the Public Works Director, they are necessary for the proper
handling of such wastes that contain grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable waste, sand, or other harmful ingredients. Such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. When required,
such interceptors shall be installed in accordance with the following:
1.   Design and Location. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity as
specified in the State Plumbing Code, to be approved by the Public Works
Director, and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
2.   Construction Standards. The interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers that shall be gastight and watertight.
3.   Maintenance. All such interceptors shall be maintained by the owner at the
owner’s expense and shall be kept in continuously efficient operations at all
times.
96.07   SEWER TAP.
Connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the “Y”
branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If no properly
located “Y” branch is available, a saddle “Y” shall be installed at the
location specified by the Public Works Director. The public sewer shall be
tapped with a tapping machine and a saddle appropriate to the type of public
sewer shall be glued or attached with a gasket and stainless steel clamps to
the sewer. At no time shall a building sewer be constructed so as to enter a
manhole unless special written permission is received from the Public Works
Director and in accordance with the Public Works Director’s direction if such
connection is approved. In addition, there shall be a tapping charge in the
amount established by resolution of the Council paid to the Clerk prior to the
connection into the public sewer.
96.08   INSPECTION REQUIRED.
All connections with the sanitary sewer system before being covered shall be
inspected and approved, in writing, by the Public Works Director. As soon as
all pipe work from the public sewer to inside the building has been completed,
and before any backfilling is done, the Public Works Director shall be notified
and the Public Works Director shall inspect and test the work as to workmanship
and material; no sewer pipe laid underground shall be covered or trenches
filled until after the sewer has been so inspected and approved. If the Public
Works Director refuses to approve the work, the plumber or owner must proceed
immediately to correct the work.
96.09   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
96.10   ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
Construction or maintenance of building sewer lines, whether located upon the
private property of any owner or in the public right-of-way, which construction
or maintenance is in violation of any of the requirements of this chapter,
shall be corrected, at the owner’s expense, within 30 days after date of
official notice from the Council of such violation. If not made within such
time, the Council shall, in addition to the other penalties herein provided,
have the right to finish and correct the work and assess the cost thereof to
the property owner. Such assessment shall be collected with and in the same
manner as general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3])
CHAPTER 97
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
 
97.01 Stormwater               97.05 Restricted Discharges; Powers of Public
                               Works Director
97.02 Surface Waters Exception 97.06 Special Facilities
97.03 Prohibited Discharges    97.07 Control Manholes
97.04 Restricted Discharges    97.08 Testing of Wastes
 
97.01   STORMWATER.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers
that are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a
natural outlet approved by the Public Works Director. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the Public Works
Director, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
97.02   SURFACE WATERS EXCEPTION.
Special permits for discharging surface waters to a public sanitary sewer may
be issued by the Council upon recommendation of the Public Works Director where
such discharge is deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of flushing, but
any permit so issued shall be subject to revocation at any time when deemed to
be in the best interests of the sewer system.
97.03   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
1.   Flammable or Explosive Material. Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil,
or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
2.   Toxic or Poisonous Materials. Any waters or wastes containing toxic or
poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant,
including but not limited to cyanides (CN) in excess of two milligrams per
liter as CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
3.   Corrosive Wastes. Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
4.   Solid or Viscous Substances. Solid or viscous substances in quantities or
of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
5.   Excessive B.O.D., Solids or Flow.
   A.   Any waters or wastes: (i) having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand
greater than 300 parts per million by weight; or (ii) containing more than 350
parts per million by weight of suspended solids; or (iii) having an average
daily flow greater than two percent of the average sewage flow of the City,
shall be subject to the review of the Public Works Director.
   B.   Where necessary in the opinion of the Public Works Director, the owner
shall provide, at the owner’s expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to: (i) reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million
by weight; or (ii) reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by
weight; or (iii) control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters
or wastes. Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the Public Works Director, and no construction of such facilities
shall be commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
97.04   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Public Works Director that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Public Works Director will give consideration to such factors as the quantities
of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials
of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity
of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances restricted are:
1.   High Temperature. Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
150? (65?).
2.   Fat, Oil, Grease. Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or 600
milligrams per liter of dispersed or other soluble matter.
3.   Viscous Substances. Water or wastes containing substances that may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32? and 150? (0? to 65?).
4.   Garbage. Any garbage that has not been properly shredded, that is, to such
a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions
normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half
inch in any dimension.
5.   Acids. Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solution, whether neutralized or not.
6.   Toxic or Objectionable Wastes. Any waters or wastes containing iron,
chromium, copper, zinc, and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or
wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Public Works Director for such materials.
7.   Odor or Taste. Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or
odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits that may be
established by the Public Works Director as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of State, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
8.   Radioactive Wastes. Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life
or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Public Works Director
in compliance with applicable State or federal regulations.
9.   Excess Alkalinity. Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
10.   Unusual Wastes. Materials that exert or cause:
   A.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
   B.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
   C.   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
   D.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting “slugs”
as defined herein.
11.   Noxious or Malodorous Gases. Any noxious or malodorous gas or other
substance that, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, is capable
of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing entry into
sewers for their maintenance and repair.
12.   Damaging Substances. Any waters, wastes, materials, or substances that
react with water or wastes in the sewer system to release noxious gases,
develop color of undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in objectionable
concentration, or create any other condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes.
13.   Untreatable Wastes. Waters or wastes containing substances that are not
amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed,
or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
97.05   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES; POWERS OF PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Section
97.04 and which in the judgment of the Public Works Director may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the Public Works Director may:
1.   Rejection. Reject the wastes by requiring disconnection from the public
sewage system;
2.   Pretreatment. Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for
discharge to the public sewers;
3.   Controls Imposed. Require control over the quantities and rates of
discharge; and/or
4.   Special Charges. Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and
treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the
provisions of
Chapter 99.
97.06   SPECIAL FACILITIES.
If the Public Works Director permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Public Works Director and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. Where preliminary
treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at the owner’s expense.
97.07   CONTROL MANHOLES.
When required by the Public Works Director, the owner of any property serviced
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Public Works
Director. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the owner’s expense,
and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
97.08   TESTING OF WASTES.
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from
periodic grab samples.)
CHAPTER 98
ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
 
98.01 When Prohibited             98.05 Discharge Restrictions
98.02 When Required               98.06 Maintenance of System
98.03 Compliance with Regulations 98.07 Systems Abandoned
98.04 Permit Required             98.08 Disposal of Septage
 
98.01   WHEN PROHIBITED.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.02   WHEN REQUIRED.
When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of Section
95.05, every building wherein persons reside, congregate or are employed shall
be provided with an approved on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
98.03   COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system shall comply with the specifications and
requirements set forth by the Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 69, and
with such additional requirements as are prescribed by the regulations of the
County Board of Health.
(567 IAC 69.1[3 and 4])
98.04   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall install or alter an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system without first obtaining a permit from the County Board of Health.
98.05   DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
It is unlawful to discharge any wastewater from an on-site wastewater treatment
and disposal system (except under an NPDES permit) to any ditch, stream, pond,
lake, natural or artificial waterway, drain tile or to the surface of the
ground.
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
98.06   MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
The owner of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system shall operate
and maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to
the City.
98.07   SYSTEMS ABANDONED.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by an on-
site wastewater treatment and disposal system, as provided in Section
95.05, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
these Sanitary Sewer chapters and the on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.08   DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.
No person shall dispose of septage from an on-site treatment system at any
location except an approved disposal site.
CHAPTER 99
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
 
99.01 Sewer Service Charges Required 99.05 Lien for Nonpayment
99.02 Special Rates                  99.06 Special Agreements Permitted
99.03 Private Water Systems          99.07 Penalties for Discharge Violations
99.04 Payment of Bills
 
99.01   SEWER SERVICE CHARGES REQUIRED.
Every customer shall pay to the City sewer service fees as hereinafter
provided.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Each customer shall pay sewer service fees, beginning on April 15th of
each year, in accordance with the following:
   2023: $18.30 per month, plus $10.32 per 1,000 gallons
   2024: $18.67 per month, plus $10.53 per 1,000 gallons
   2025: $19.04 per month, plus $10.74 per 1,000 gallons
   2026: $19.42 per month, plus $10.95 per 1,000 gallons
   2027: $19.81 per month, plus $11.17 per 1,000 gallons
2.   In the event an existing industry or new industry projects the employment
of at least 20 additional persons over a two-year period and capital
expenditures of $500,000.00 in said same two-year period for building and/or
machinery and equipment purchases, and agrees not to ever drill a private fresh
water well within the City corporate limits, then the City may grant an
economic development incentive water user rebate which would be a percentage of
the standard rate as follows:
   1st year:   50%
   2nd year:   50%
   3rd year:   50%
   4th year:   20%
   5th year:   10%
After the fifth year no rebate shall apply. If employment projections are not
met within said two-year period, then said industry shall, upon notice by the
City, repay said rebate amounts.
3.   Sewer service to any customer for a structure containing more than one
dwelling unit, as defined by the Clarion Zoning Ordinance, shall be subject to
a minimum monthly charge based on the multiplication of the current base rate
times a number which is 80 percent of the number of dwelling units in the
structure.
4.   Beginning in 2028, the monthly per-gallon rate set out in Subsection 1 of
this section shall be increased by two percent (2%) annually.
5.   Industrial Flow Meter. If an industrial user has a consumptive use of
water, or in some other manner uses water which is not discharged into the
City’s wastewater collection system, the City may allow the user to purchase an
effluent flow meter from the City. The installation and maintenance of the flow
meter shall be at the user’s expense and subject to City acceptance. The user
charge (sewer service fees) will be based on readings of the effluent flow
meter. The economic development incentive set out in
Section 99.02(2) shall not apply to the user charge through the effluent flow
meter.
(Section 99.01 – Ord. 618 – Aug. 23 Supp.)
99.02   SPECIAL RATES.
Where, in the judgment of the Public Works Director and the Council, special
conditions exist to the extent that the application of the sewer charges
provided in Section
99.01 would be inequitable or unfair to either the City or the customer, a
special rate shall be proposed by the Public Works Director and submitted to
the Council for approval by resolution.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.03   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS.
Customers whose premises are served by a private water system shall pay sewer
charges based upon the water used as determined by the City either by an
estimate agreed to by the customer or by metering the water system at the
customer’s expense. Any negotiated or agreed-upon sales or charges shall be
subject to approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.04   PAYMENT OF BILLS.
All sewer service charges are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.03 of this Code of Ordinances. Sewer service may be discontinued or
disconnected in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.04 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.07 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
99.05   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.06 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof shall be jointly and severally liable for sewer
service charges to the premises. Sewer service charges remaining unpaid and
delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and
shall be certified by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the
same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.06   SPECIAL AGREEMENTS PERMITTED.
No statement in these chapters shall be construed as preventing a special
agreement, arrangement, or contract between the Council, and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted subject to special conditions, rate, and cost as established by the
Council.
99.07   PENALTIES FOR DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
1.   No customer or user of the City municipal sanitary sewer collection system
which is a Significant Industrial User, as defined in Section 567, Chapter 60
of the Iowa Administrative Code, shall discharge or cause to be discharged to
the wastewater system, either directly or indirectly, any of the following
described wastes or wastewater:
   A.   Any solids, slurry, or viscous substances of such a character as to be
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in the wastewater system which
interferes with the proper operation of the wastewater system.
   B.   Any discharge exceeding the threshold limitation established in the
Iowa Department of Natural Resources Form 542-3221, or current Iowa Department
of Natural Resources Treatment Agreement Form as applicable to the City.
   C.   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to such a
degree that any such material received in the wastewater system in excess of
limitations set by the City or the State of Iowa for the following materials:
arsenic, cadmium, copper, cyanide, iron, lead, mercury, nickel, silver, tin,
chromium, molybdenum, zinc, or phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by
the City’s wastewater treatment system.
   D.   Any solids, liquids or gasses which by themselves or by interaction
with other substances may cause fire, explosion or hazards, create toxic fumes
or in any other way be injurious to persons or property involved in the
operation or maintenance of the wastewater system.
   E.   Any discharge of a concentration of wastes or wastewater to the
collection system harmful to the operation of the wastewater system,
   F.   Any discharge of any waste or wastewater which would cause the
wastewater treatment facilities of the City to be in violation of the
requirements of their operating permits.
Failure by the customer to file a factual report or creating a false report of
the composition and characteristics of the waste and wastewater discharges
shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
2.   Upon violation of the requirements of this section, said violating
customer or user shall be notified of the violation. Said violation shall be
corrected by the customer or user within two days of the date of notification
(Correction Period), or else the violator, within said Correction Period, shall
submit a proposal to the City for a different Correction Period which the City
may consider. The City shall notify the violator of its decision regarding
acceptance or non-acceptance of such a proposed different Correction Period. If
after the Correction Period as determined has expired the correction has not
been made, the following actions may be taken by the City:
   A.   Discontinuation of water and sanitary sewer service to the customer or
user.
   B.   Assessment of a fine in the amount of $500.00 for each day the
violation remains uncorrected. Such fine shall constitute a sewer service
charge to the premises and will be subject to the provisions of Lien for
Nonpayment contained in Section
99.05 of this chapter.
   C.   Following correction, the occurrence of an additional violation by the
customer within one year shall be subject to immediate discontinuation of water
and sanitary sewer service or fine or both actions in accordance with
Subparagraphs A and B above without the above referenced Correction Period.
   D.   If any violation subjects the City to a fine or penalty by any State or
federal agency, the violating customer or user shall reimburse the City for the
amount of said fine or penalty which shall constitute a sewer service charge.
   E.   If any violation results in additional monitoring, analysis or
maintenance costs to the City for actions such as, but not limited to,
sampling, testing, sanitary sewer system cleaning, aeration or similar actions,
the violating customer or user shall reimburse the City for the cost of such
actions, which cost shall constitute a sewer service charge.
CHAPTER 100
SANITARY SEWER COLLECTION SYSTEM
 
100.01 Purpose                    100.04 Access and Entry For Inspections
100.02 Definition and Method      100.05 Future Inspections
100.03 Requirements to Disconnect 100.06 Penalty
Improper Connections
 
100.01   PURPOSE.
This chapter supplements Chapters
95,
96,
97, and
98 of this Code of Ordinances to insure there is no discharge of water from any
roof, surface, ground, sump pump, footing tile, or swimming pool or other
natural precipitation into the City sanitary sewer collection system. On
numerous occasions in the past the sanitary sewer has flooded and been
overloaded to such an extent as to cause damage to residential property and to
overload City services. Such damage has caused the backup of sewage into the
living quarters of residential homes, creating a potential health hazard. It is
essential to the maintenance of health, minimization of damage to property, and
to maintain the life and capacity of all City services that the provisions of
this chapter be strictly enforced to avoid and minimize these problems in the
future.
100.02   DEFINITION AND METHOD.
No water from any roof, surface, ground, sump pump, footing tile, swimming
pool, or other natural precipitation shall be discharged into the sanitary
sewer collection system. Dwellings (including new housing construction or
houses under construction) and other buildings and structures which require,
because of infiltration of water into basements, crawl spaces and the like, a
sump pump system to discharge water shall have a permanently installed
discharge line which shall not at any time discharge water into the sanitary
sewer collection system. A permanent installation shall be one which provides
for a year-round discharge connection to the City sub-drain/storm sewer system.
If there is no sub-drain available, the surface discharge point location shall
be approved by the Public Works Director. It shall consist of rigid discharge
line, without valving or quick connections for altering the path of discharge
and, if connected to the City sub-drain/storm sewer line, shall include a check
valve.
100.03   REQUIREMENTS TO DISCONNECT IMPROPER CONNECTIONS.
Any person, firm, or corporation having a roof, surface, ground, sump pump,
footing tile, or swimming pool now connected and/or discharging into the
sanitary sewer system shall disconnect and/or remove the same. Any disconnects
or openings in the sanitary sewer shall be closed or repaired in a manner as
approved by the Public Works Director.
100.04   ACCESS AND ENTRY FOR INSPECTIONS.
Every person owning real estate or a contractor/builder who is building a house
within the City that discharges into the City’s sanitary sewer system or on the
ground shall allow an employee of the City to inspect the buildings to confirm
that there is no sump pump or other prohibited discharge into the sanitary
sewer system. Any owner of property or contractor/house builder found to
violate this chapter shall make necessary changes to comply with this chapter
and furnish proof of the changes to the City within 60 days after the date the
violation was identified. Inspections shall be made at a reasonable time and
only after reasonable effort has been made to notify the property owner of the
need for such inspection.
100.05   FUTURE INSPECTIONS.
At any future time, if the City has reason to suspect that an illegal
connection may exist in a premises, the owner, after written notice, shall
allow a City representative to inspect the building.
100.06   PENALTY.
Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific penalty is
provided may be punished as set forth below.
1.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
served by the City with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing at least 60 days for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease and correct all violations.
2.   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a municipal infraction. Each day in which any such
violation occurs shall be deemed a separate offense.
3.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the City by
reason of such violation. The City will also retain any and all civil remedies,
including (but not limited to) injunction or abatement actions to remedy a
violation.
CHAPTER 101
STORM SEWERS
 
101.01 Definition                   101.03 Use of Public Sewers
101.02 Storm Sewers and Connections
 
101.01   DEFINITION.
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, “storm sewer,” as used in
this chapter, means a sewer intended to receive storm or surface water.
101.02   STORM SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
1.   No authorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or openings
into, use, alter, or disturb any public storm sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Public Works Director.
2.   The permit applicant or his/her agent shall make application on a special
form furnished by the City. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the Public Works Director. A permit and inspection fee as
established by resolution of the Council shall be paid to the City at the time
the application is filed.
3.   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation, connection, or
repair of the storm sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the storm sewer.
4.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Public Works
Director when the building sewer is ready for inspection. The connection shall
be approved by the Public Works Director prior to backfilling.
5.   All excavations for storm sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City.
101.03   USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
1.   Storm water other than that specified to be discharged to the sanitary
sewer system by this code and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged
to such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the Public Works Director and other regulatory agencies.
Unpolluted industrial cooling water or process waters may be discharged, on
approval of the Public Works Director and other regulatory agencies, to a storm
sewer or natural outlet.
2.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public storm sewers:
   A.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   B.   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in
sufficient quantity to constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a
public nuisance, or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the storm
sewer.
   C.   Any waters or waste having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property.
   D.   Solids or viscous substance in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in the sewers, such as (but not limited to)
ashes, bones, cinders, sand, cementitious materials, mud, straw, shavings,
metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, garbage, whole blood, paunch
manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers,
etc.
3.   If any waters are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the storm
sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the characteristics
enumerated in Subsection 2 of this section, and which in the judgment of the
Public Works Director and other regulatory agencies may have a deleterious
effect upon the storm sewer facilities or receiving waters or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Public Works
Director may:
   A.   Reject the discharge;
   B.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
   C.   Require payment to cover the cost of handling the discharge repairing
and/or replacing storm sewers damaged by such discharges.
4.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided by the owner when, in
the opinion of the City and other regulatory agencies, they are necessary for
the proper handling of liquid discharges containing floatable grease in
excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, cementitious materials, or
other harmful ingredients. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
approved by the Public Works Director and other regulatory agencies, and shall
be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
In the maintenance of these interceptors, the owners shall be responsible for
the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material
and shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject
to review by the Public Works Director.
CHAPTER 102
STORMWATER DRAINAGE UTILITY
 
102.01 Stormwater Drainage Utility 102.06 Billing and Collections
Established
102.02 Definitions                 102.07 Revenues, Deposits, and Disbursements
102.03 Stormwater Utility Fund     102.08 Unpaid Charges; Assessment
102.04 Credits                     102.09 Periodic Review of Charges
102.05 Exemptions
 
102.01   STORMWATER DRAINAGE UTILITY ESTABLISHED.
Pursuant to the authority of the Code of Iowa, the entire City is hereby
declared a Stormwater Drainage System for the purpose of establishing,
imposing, adjusting and providing for the collection of rates for the operation
and maintenance of stormwater management facilities. The City finds,
determines, and declares that the Stormwater Drainage Utility System provides
benefits and services to all property within the City limits. Such benefits
include, but are not limited to: the provision of adequate systems for
collection, conveyance, detention, retention, treatment and release of
stormwater for quality and quantity management that minimize impacts on
receiving waters. The entire City, as increased from time to time by
annexation, shall constitute a single Stormwater Drainage System. The
Stormwater Drainage System shall be operated as a public utility from which
revenues will be derived subject to the provisions of this chapter. The
administrator of the Stormwater Drainage System shall be the City Administrator
102.02   DEFINITIONS.
1.   “Developed property” means property altered from its natural state by the
construction or installation of a structure or impervious surface thus
increasing the amount of rainwater or surface water runoff.
2.   “Exempt property” includes public streets, alleys, and sidewalks; all
undeveloped property.
3.   “Owner” shall mean the legal owners of record as shown on the tax rolls of
the City, except where there is a recorded land sale contract, the purchaser
thereunder shall be deemed the owner.
4.   “Residential property” means all single-family and duplex properties
within the City.
5.   “Service charges” means the periodic rate, fee or charge applicable to a
parcel of developed property, which charge shall be reflective of the service
provided by the stormwater utility. Service charges are based on measurable
parameters which influence the stormwater utility’s cost of providing services
and facilities, with the most important factor being the amount of impervious
area on each parcel of developed property.
6.   “Storm sewer” means a sewer, which carries stormwater, surface runoff,
street wash waters, and drainage, but which excludes sanitary sewage and
industrial wastes.
7.   “Stormwater” means stormwater runoff, snowmelt runoff, and surface runoff
and drainage.
8.   “Stormwater Drainage System” means any combination of publicly owned storm
and surface water quality and quantity facilities, pumping, or lift facilities,
storm and secondary drain pipes and culverts, open channels, creeks and
ditches, force main, laterals, manholes, catch basins and inlets including
grates and covers thereof, detention and retention facilities, laboratory
facilities and equipment, and any other publicly owned facilities for
collection, conveyance, treatment and disposal of storm and surface water
system within the City to which sanitary sewage flows are not intentionally
admitted.
9.   “Stormwater management” means the tasks required to control stormwater
runoff using stormwater management systems, to protect the health, safety, and
welfare of the public, and comply with relevant State and federal regulations.
10.   “Stormwater Utility” means the utility established under this chapter for
the purpose of managing stormwater and imposing charges for the recovery of
costs connected with such stormwater management.
11.   “Undeveloped property” describes land in its unaltered natural state or
which has been modified to such minimal degree as to have a hydrologic response
comparable to land in an unaltered natural state shall be deemed undeveloped.
Undeveloped land shall have minimal concrete pavement, asphalt, or compacted
gravel surfaces or structures which create an impervious surface.
12.   “Unit” means each household, each residence, each place of commerce,
education, government, religion, or each industry, whether in a single building
on a single lot or in a multiple-use building on a single lot or multiple lot
complexes. Each unit shall be charged individually per address, but where the
complex is billed under one combined service account, the recipient of that
bill shall be deemed the user and receive the total combined stormwater
drainage charge for that complex.
13.   “User” means the owner and/or occupant of any developed property within
the City limits, and shall mean any person who uses property which maintains
connection to, discharges to, or otherwise receives services from the City for
stormwater management. The occupant of any habitable property is deemed the
user. If the property is not occupied, then the person who has the right to
occupy it shall be deemed the user.
102.03   STORMWATER UTILITY FUND.
1.   Funding for the Stormwater Utility’s activities may include, but are not
limited to: stormwater service charges; stormwater permits and inspection fees;
other funds or income obtained from federal, state, local, and private grants,
or loans.
2.   Each user shall pay for the Stormwater Drainage System service provided by
the City. The rates for the operation and maintenance of the stormwater
management facilities shall be collected by imposing a monthly rate on each
user within the City. The service charges shall be billed as part of a combined
service account which means a customer service account for the provision of two
or more utility services. The Council may adopt rules, charges, rates and fees
for the use of the City’s Stormwater Drainage System, for the services provided
by the City relating to that system. Such rules may include delinquency and
interest charges and penalties. Such charges and fees shall be just and
equitable based upon the actual costs of operation, maintenance, acquisition,
extension and replacement of the City’s system, the costs of bond repayment,
regulation, administration and services to the City. The rates for the
foregoing functions shall be collected by imposing a monthly rate as follows,
beginning April 15, 2017, and increasing by 50 cents on April 15, 2019:
$3.50 on each City residential property unit
$4.00 on each multiple-family complex unit
$11.00 on each commercial unit located outside the C-1 zoning district as
established by the zoning ordinance of the City
$16.00 on every commercial unit located within the C-1 zoning district as
established by the zoning ordinance of the City
$26.00 for each industrial, educational, governmental, institutional or
religious unit. Agricultural use of land is exempt from the requirements of
this chapter.
Any property, lot, parcel of land, building or premises that is tributary
directly or indirectly to the stormwater system of the City, shall be subject
to a charge if there is impervious area on the property. This charge is not
related to the water and/or sewer service and does not rely on occupancy of the
premises to be in effect. All properties having impervious area within the City
will be charged a fee.
102.04   CREDITS.
The Council may adopt policies by resolution for adjustment of the stormwater
drainage fee for parcels based upon hydrologic data to be supplied by property
owners, which data demonstrates a hydrologic response substantially different
from the standards. Such adjustments of stormwater drainage fees shall not be
made retroactively.
102.05   EXEMPTIONS.
The following land uses are exempt from stormwater drainage fees:
1.   Public rights-of-way.
2.   Vacant, unimproved land with ground cover.
3.   Parks, cemeteries, and golf courses.
4.   Undeveloped agricultural land which does not contribute stormwater runoff
into the City’s storm drainage system.
102.06   BILLING AND COLLECTIONS.
Bills for the charges for the use and service of the stormwater drainage system
shall be prepared by the City, in accordance with its usual and customary
practices. The time of preparing such bills and the period covered thereby
shall be in accordance with the practices of the City. All bills shall be
payable to the City.
102.07   REVENUES, DEPOSITS, AND DISBURSEMENTS.
The revenues derived from the rates and charges shall be deposited with the
City Administrator in the Stormwater Drainage Fund. The revenues shall be used
solely for the purpose of paying the costs of administration, operation, and
maintenance of the stormwater drainage facilities, including street sweeping,
and to pay the interest and principal on any bonds of the City which have been
issued or shall be issued on account of the construction of said facilities,
and to maintain an equipment and replacement fund for use at any time in making
repairs to the stormwater drainage facilities.
102.08   UNPAID CHARGES; ASSESSMENT.
On or before November 1 of each year, the City Administrator shall certify a
list of unpaid accounts showing the names and addresses of all unpaid
stormwater drainage accounts up to September 30 of that year. On or before
November 25, the City Council shall assess the unpaid accounts against the
property receiving the use and service of the Stormwater Drainage System, which
assessments, including interest at the lawful rate from October 1 to May 31
following, shall be certified against the affected properties as shown in the
assessment tabulation, and shall be collected in the same manner as other
special assessments. The sum collected, together with interest, shall be
credited to the Stormwater Drainage Fund.
102.09   PERIODIC REVIEW OF CHARGES.
The City Council will review the stormwater drainage charge system established
herein on an annual basis. Thereafter, the Council may periodically revise the
rate charged for storm drainage service to reflect any change in the cost of
providing said service.
CHAPTER 103
SUMP PUMP AND GROUNDWATER STANDARDS
 
103.01 Intent                                103.04 Inspection
103.02 Prohibited Water                      103.05 Removal of Connections
103.03 Sump, Pump, and Rigid Pipe; Method of 103.06 Surcharge
Installation
 
103.01   INTENT.
The intent of this chapter is to establish rules and regulations governing the
installation used and discharge of sump pumps or other groundwater conveyance
systems and to establish the penalty structures required to enforce said rules
and regulations. The rules and regulations governing the use of sump pumps or
other groundwater conveyance systems are being established:
1.   To set forth uniform requirements for the installation, use and discharge
of sump pumps or groundwater conveyance systems.
2.   To prevent the introduction of clean surface water, including but not
limited to, water from roof or cellar drains, springs, basement sump pumps, and
French drains and fountain drains.
103.02   PROHIBITED WATER.
1.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant or user of any premises to
direct into or allow any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, well water or
water from industrial or commercial air conditioning systems (residential
properties may have a 20 gallon per day maximum discharge from air conditioning
systems) to drain into the wastewater collection system. No rainspout, or other
form of surface drainage and no foundation drainage or sump pump shall be
connected or discharged into any wastewater collection system.
2.   Any new or existing construction in which a sump and pump have been or
will be installed shall be required to install a rigid pipe connection
discharge in accordance with Section
103.03. It shall be unlawful to maintain any connection with the sanitary sewer
carrying roof water, groundwater, surface water or any other natural
precipitation.
3.   Exemptions.
   A.   Seasonal Waiver. Exemptions may be granted in the form of a seasonal
waiver, which would allow the property owner to temporarily discharge directly
into the wastewater collection system between the dates of November 30 and
March 31. The holder of a seasonal waiver shall allow a City employee or
designated representative to certify that prior to March 31 of each subsequent
year their discharge water connection has been removed from the City wastewater
collection system. Failure to provide such certification shall place the
seasonal waiver holder in violation and subject to the surcharge penalty as
required under Section
103.06. Seasonal waiver requests shall be submitted on the official form
provided by the City.
   B.   Non-Seasonal Waiver. Exemptions may be granted in the form of a non-
seasonal waiver for particular property owner who can demonstrate undue
hardship because of unique or extenuating circumstances. A non-seasonal waiver
would allow the property owner to discharge directly into the sanitary sewer
system without seasonal restrictions. The non-seasonal waiver request shall be
submitted to the City in writing and, at a minimum, identify the property for
which the waiver is being requested, the name of the property owner/applicant,
and detailed description of the circumstances justifying the request. Non-
seasonal waiver requests shall be submitted on the official form provided by
the City.
4.   Monthly Fee.
   A.   Any person granted a seasonal waiver shall be charged an additional
monthly fee on their sewer bill to cover the cost of compliance inspections and
the cost for treating the extra discharge water during the waiver period. The
seasonal waiver amount shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
   B.   Any person granted a non-seasonal waiver shall be charged an additional
monthly fee on their utility bill to cover the cost for treating the extra
discharge water on a year round basis. The non-seasonal waiver amount shall be
set by resolution of the City Council.
5.   If a seasonal waiver is granted, the owner of the property may place a
pipe connecting the sump pump to the sanitary sewer, which must have a shut-off
valve. City employees or designated representatives, on or around March 31 of
each year, will inspect the system to verify that the valve is closed so no
prohibited water is discharged into the sanitary sewer. By applying for the
waiver, the owner has granted permission for City employees or designated
representatives to inspect the connection at any time between March 31 and
November 30 to verify compliance with this section. Such inspections shall be
made between 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, and only when a
resident of the premises is on site. Failure to allow such an inspection or to
allow City employees or designate representatives entry for verification of
compliance shall result in automatic revocation of the seasonal waiver and
imposition of the surcharge penalty pursuant to Section
103.06.
103.03   SUMP, PUMP, AND RIGID PIPE; METHOD OF INSTALLATION.
1.   A discharge pipe shall be installed through the outside foundation wall of
the building with rigid pipe (plastic, copper or galvanized) one inch inside
diameter minimum, without valves or quick connections that would alter the path
of discharge. The discharge shall be directed away from the foundation wall.
2.   No discharge shall be directed so as to impact neighboring properties.
3.   Where a sump pit exists in any building, it shall have a pump installed
with rigid piping as specified in Subsection 1 above.
4.   Where a sump pit exists and the property owner decides not to utilize a
pump, the pit shall be permanently filled with concrete.
5.   A sump pump permit is required for installation or alteration of sump pump
plumbing.
6.   No discharge pipe shall discharge onto any of the City’s rights-of-way,
sidewalks, or streets.
103.04   INSPECTION.
Property owners shall allow a City employee or a designated representative to
inspect the buildings to confirm that there is no sump pump or other prohibited
discharge into the wastewater collection system. The City may periodically re-
inspect any building or premises to determine compliance with the requirements
of this chapter.
103.05   REMOVAL OF CONNECTIONS.
Any property owner who previously made any connection or installation in
violation of this chapter shall immediately remove such connection or correct
such installation. If not removed or corrected within 30 calendar days after
notice of the violation has been delivered personally or by certified mail to
the owner, the City shall impose a surcharge in the amount provided in Section
103.06. Such surcharge shall also be imposed upon any property owner, after a
30-day calendar notice has been delivered, if the owner refuses to allow their
property to be inspected. The owner of a building or premises found to be not
in conformance with this chapter during periodic re-inspection shall be
subjected to a surcharge as provided in Section
103.06 starting from the previous date of inspection.
103.06   SURCHARGE.
A surcharge per month is hereby imposed on every sewer bill to property owners
in violation of this chapter, as set by resolution.
CHAPTER 105
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
105.01 Purpose                    105.12 Landfill Fee
105.02 Findings                   105.13 Lien for Nonpayment
105.03 Definitions                105.14 Residential Recycling
105.04 Sanitary Disposal Required 105.15 Unit Based Pricing
105.05 Health Hazard              105.16 Public Collection System
105.06 Fire Hazard                105.17 Pre-Collection Practices
105.07 Open Burning Prohibited    105.18 City-Provided Service
105.08 Littering Prohibited       105.19 Collection Zones
105.09 Hazardous Wastes           105.20 Savings Clause
105.10 Waste Storage Containers   105.21 Enforcement
105.11 Prohibited Practices
 
105.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that solid waste generated within the
City will be collected, transported, and deposited in an environmentally safe
manner and to ensure that the mandated reduction goals set out by the Code of
Iowa will be met.
105.02   FINDINGS.
The City makes the following specific findings:
1.   The collection of solid waste from commercial, industrial, residential,
and other establishments and premises within the City is a matter of serious
concern to the health, welfare, and safety of the citizens of the City.
2.   Some solid waste presently being generated within the City is being
transported to its ultimate disposal site in uncovered vehicles which allows
the garbage to fall from the vehicle onto the road, creating a health and
safety hazard.
3.   The mishandling of solid waste from residential, commercial, industrial,
and other establishments and premises in the collection and disposal process
can result in conditions which adversely affect the health, safety and welfare
of the citizens of the City and may have a serious detrimental impact on the
quality of the environment; and
4.   The collection of solid waste within the City is an essential public
service; and
5.   To better assure compliance with the requirements of Chapters 455B.301A;
455B.302; 455B.307; 455B.307A, and 455D.4 of the Code of Iowa, it is necessary
for the City to assume the overall responsibility for the collection of all
waste generated within its corporate boundaries and to limit collection of said
waste to the City or to such persons or companies who demonstrate that they are
capable and willing to collect said solid waste in a manner deemed by the City
to be responsible, sound and consistent with the sanitation and environmental
practices and policies established by the State of Iowa and by the City; and
6.   The City has determined that it can best achieve the goals and objectives
of the City as set out in the findings above by one of the following methods:
   A.   City Direct Service. The Council may choose to provide service directly
with City equipment and City employees.
   B.   Selected Hauler Service. The City may designate a zone as a selected
hauler zone. Under this option, the City may receive proposals, on terms
provided herein, for one or a limited number of selected haulers.
   C.   Multiple Contract Hauler Service. The City may determine to offer
standard contracts to haulers, for an initial contract period determined by the
City, under which any qualified hauler may, for the contract period, enter into
a nonexclusive uniform contract with the City to provide some of the City’s
service within the zone. The City may choose to offer Contract Hauler service
for residential, commercial, or industrial service, or any combination of the
three. The City may enter into contracts with multiple haulers for the same
type of service within the same zone.
   D.   Combination of City Service and Private Hauler Service. The City may
determine to provide services directly with City equipment and City employees
for a portion of the waste stream and offer standard contracts to haulers as
outlined in Paragraphs B and C above.
7.   The City has a duty to encourage recycling and the proper management of
household hazardous waste.
8.   The City has a desire to ensure that commercial and industrial hazardous
wastes are also collected and disposed of according to federal and State law.
105.03   DEFINITIONS.
For the purposes of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations have the meanings given herein.
1.   “Additional residential services” means services provided to residential
properties at the option of the property owner in return for additional user
charges.
2.   “Basic residential services” means the minimum level of service provided
to all residences within a Solid Waste Zone.
3.   “Commercial/industrial” means covered solid waste collection and disposal
service provided to all solid waste generators not included within the
definition of “residential service” set out in Subsection 18 below, and may
also be referred to as nonresidential collection or service.
4.   “Covered solid waste” means garbage, refuse and other municipal solid
waste from residential and nonresidential activity, including commercial and
industrial activities, but does not include the following waste: (i) “hazardous
waste” as defined in this section; or (ii) other waste determined inappropriate
for collection and conveyance by the City. Unless otherwise determined by the
City, the following waste is determined inappropriate for collection and
conveyance by the City: incinerator ash; foundry sand; explosives; hospital,
pathological and biological waste; chemicals and radioactive materials, oil
sludge; asbestos in identifiable quantities; cesspool or other human waste;
sewage and other highly diluted, water-carried materials or substances;
materials in gaseous form; human or animal remains; street sweepings; ash;
mining waste; sludge; and hazardous refuse of any kind, such as cleaning
fluids, crank case oils, cutting oils, paints, acids, caustics, poisons, drugs.
The City may issue regulations adding or removing items from the list. At the
request of any person, or at such person’s own initiative, the City may issue a
binding interpretative ruling as to whether a particular substance constitutes
covered solid waste.
5.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit or drop.
6.   “Dwelling” means a building or portion thereof, designed or used
exclusively for residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family,
multiple-family dwelling units, mobile homes, agricultural dwellings,
apartments, and seasonal recreational properties but not including nursing
homes, hotels, and motels.
7.   “Dwelling unit” means one or more rooms in a dwelling designed for
occupancy by one family for living purposes and having its own permanently
installed cooking and sanitary facilities, and having its own water meter.
8.   “Environmentally suitable manner” means disposal of mixed municipal solid
waste in a State-permitted solid waste processing, waste-to-energy, transfer,
or sanitary landfill disposal facility.
9.   “Hazardous waste” means refuse, sludge or other waste material or
combinations of refuse, sludge or other waste material in solid, semi-solid,
liquid or contained gaseous form which, because of its quantity, concentration
of chemical, physical or infectious characteristics may cause or significantly
contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible,
or incapacitating reversible illness, or pose a substantial present or
potential hazard to human health or the environment when improperly treated,
stored, transported or disposed of or otherwise managed. Categories of
hazardous waste materials include (but are not limited to) explosives,
flammables, oxidizers, poisons, irritants, and corrosives.
10.   “Household hazardous waste” means waste generated from household activity
that exhibits the characteristics of or that is listed as hazardous waste under
State or federal rules, but does not include waste from commercial activities
that is generated, stored, or present in a household.
11.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials, or
debris not exceeding 10 pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume. Litter
includes but is not limited to empty beverage containers, cigarette butts, food
waste packaging, other food or candy wrappers, handbills, empty cartons, or
boxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[2])
12.   “Open burning” means any burning of combustible materials where the
products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passing through a
chimney or stack.
13.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person residing
in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating or transacting business in any
premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities, liabilities
and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.
14.   “Person” means any human being, any municipality or other governmental or
political subdivision or public agency, or private corporation, any
partnership, firm, association, or other organization, any receiver, trustee,
assigned, agent or other legal representative of the foregoing, or any other
legal entity.
15.   “Recycling” means the process of collecting and preparing recyclable
materials and reusing the materials in their original form or using them in
manufacturing processes that do not cause the destruction of recyclable
materials in a manner that precludes further use. It includes yard waste
composting, and recycling that occurs through mechanical or hand separation of
materials.
16.   “Residential property” means all improved real property in the City
devoted to single-family residences, multiple-family dwelling units, mobile
homes, or agricultural residences.
17.   “Residential service” means covered solid waste collection and disposal
service provided to dwellings with four or less dwelling units.
18.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises as a
result of residential activities. The term includes landscape wastes grown on
the premises or deposited thereon by the elements, but excludes tires and trade
wastes.
19.   “Self-hauler” means an individual generator disposing of such person’s
own covered solid waste, providing that disposal is carried out in accord with
the law and applicable ordinances and in an environmentally suitable manner.
20.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar discarded
solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such materials
resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic activities.
Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined by Section 321.1 of the Code of
Iowa. Solid waste does not include any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
   A.   Hazardous waste regulated under the Federal Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.
   B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of Iowa,
except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific wastes
have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.
   C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
   D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to acceptable
State or federal standards.
   E.   Steel slag which is a product resulting from the steel manufacturing
process and is managed as an item of value in a controlled manner and not as a
discarded material.
   F.   Material that is legitimately recycled pursuant to Section 455D.4A of
the Code of Iowa.
   G.   Post-use polymers or recoverable feedstocks that are any of the
following:
      (1)   Processed at a pyrolysis or gasification facility.
      (2)   Held at a pyrolysis or gasification facility prior to processing to
ensure production is not interrupted.
21.   “Wright County Area Landfill Authority” or “Authority” means the
authority created by the cities within Wright County, along with Wright County,
pursuant to Chapter 28E of the Code of Iowa, or successor statutes for the
purpose of cooperatively coordinating and managing solid waste within the
Wright County area.
105.04   SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
Any accumulation of solid waste remaining on any premises for a period of more
than 30 days shall be deemed a nuisance and the City may proceed to abate such
nuisances or by initiating proper action in district court.
105.05   HEALTH HAZARD.
It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises, improved
or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste, either in
containers or not, that shall constitute a health or sanitation hazard.
105.06   FIRE HAZARD.
It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate quantities of solid waste
within or close to any building, unless the same is stored in containers in
such a manner as not to create a fire hazard.
105.07   OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.
No person shall allow, cause, or permit open burning of combustible materials,
except the following:
1.   Disaster Rubbish. The open burning of rubbish, including landscape waste,
for the duration of the community disaster period in cases where an officially
declared emergency condition exists, provided that the burning of any
structures or demolished structures is conducted in accordance with 40 CFR
Section 61.145.
2.   Trees and Tree Trimmings. The open burning of trees and tree trimmings at
a City-operated burning site, provided such burning is conducted in compliance
with the rules established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
3.   Flare Stacks. The open burning or flaring of waste gases, provided such
open burning or flaring is conducted in compliance with applicable rules of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
4.   Landscape Waste. The burning of landscape waste produced in clearing,
grubbing and construction operations shall be limited to areas located at least
one-fourth mile from any building inhabited by other than the landowner or
tenant conducting the open burning. Rubber tires shall not be used to ignite
landscape waste.
5.   Recreational Fires. Recreational fires consisting solely of firewood must
be burned within a fireplace, fire ring or other appropriate means of
containment. The following materials are prohibited from being burned in a
recreational fire: leaves, weeds, grasses, flower bed and garden waste, solid
waste and all other items not considered firewood. Open fires for cooking,
heating, recreation, and ceremonies are allowed, provided they comply with the
limits for emission of visible air contaminants established by the State
Department of Natural Resources. Rubber tires shall not be burned in a
recreational fire.
6.   Training Fires. Fires set for the purpose of conducting bona fide training
of public or industrial employees in firefighting methods, provided that the
training fires are conducted in compliance with rules established by the State
Department of Natural Resources.
7.   Controlled Burning of a Demolished Building. The controlled burning of a
demolished building by the City, subject to approval of the Council, provided
that the controlled burning is conducted in accordance with rules and
limitations established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
8.   Variance. Any person wishing to conduct open burning of materials not
permitted herein may make application for a variance to the Director of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
105.08   LITTERING PROHIBITED.
No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized collection
and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles provided for such
purpose. When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle, the driver of the motor
vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case where doubt exists as to
which occupant of the motor vehicle actually discarded the litter.
105.09   HAZARDOUS WASTES.
The collection, storage, and disposal of hazardous wastes shall be subject to
the following:
1.   Labeling. All containers used for the storage, collection or
transportation of hazardous wastes shall be plainly marked so as to provide
adequate notice of the contents thereof.
2.   Vehicles and Containers. All vehicles and containers used for the storage,
collection, and transportation of hazardous wastes shall be so constructed that
they can be loaded, moved and unloaded in a manner that does not create a
danger to public health or safety and in compliance with federal and State
laws, rules, and regulations.
3.   Disposal. No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise
offer for collection any hazardous wastes. Such materials shall be transported
and disposed of as prescribed by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources.
105.10   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or renting any premises,
dwelling unit or any place where refuse accumulates shall provide and at all
times maintain in good order and repair portable containers for refuse in
accordance with the following:
1.   Container Specification. Waste storage containers shall comply with the
following specifications:
   A.   Residential. Residential waste containers or waste garbage bags shall
be of not less than twenty (20) gallons or more than one hundred (100) gallons
in nominal capacity; shall be leak proof, waterproof, and fitted with a fly
tight lid or drawstring which shall be kept in place except when depositing or
removing the contents thereof. They shall be of lightweight and sturdy
construction with the total weight of any individual container or garbage bag
and contents not exceeding seventy-five (75) pounds. Galvanized metal
containers, rubber or fiberglass containers and plastic containers or garbage
bags which do not become brittle in cold weather may be used. Disposable
containers or other containers as approved by the City may also be used. If
said container has been provided by a solid waste collector so as to facilitate
collection, said container shall include identifiable information of said solid
waste collector.
(Ord. 611 – Mar. 22 Supp.)
   B.   Commercial. Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing or
renting any commercial premises where an excessive amount of refuse accumulates
and where its storage in portable containers as required above is impractical,
shall maintain metal bulk storage containers approved by the City.
2.   Location of Containers. Residential solid waste containers shall be stored
upon the residential premises. Commercial solid waste containers shall be
stored upon private property, unless the owner has been granted written
permission from the City to use public property for such purposes. The storage
site shall be well drained and fully accessible to collection equipment, public
health personnel, and fire inspection personnel.
3.   Nonconforming Containers. Solid waste placed in containers which are not
in compliance with the provisions of this section will not be collected.
4.   Separation of Yard Waste Required. All yard waste shall be separated by
the owner or occupant from all other solid waste accumulated on the premises
and shall be composted or disposed of offsite at a City Owned Collection Site
for yard waste or placed in acceptable containers and set out for collection
pursuant to the agreement for collection existing between the owner or occupant
and the solid waste hauler.
105.11   PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
It is unlawful for any person to:
1.   Unlawful Use of Containers. Deposit refuse in any solid waste containers
not owned by such person without the written consent of the owner of such
containers.
2.   Interfere With Collectors. Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors be those of the
City, or those of any other authorized waste collection service.
3.   Radioactive Material. Dispose of radioactive material in sanitary disposal
project. Luminous timepieces are exempt.
4.   Unlawful Collection. Engage in the business of collecting, transporting,
processing or disposing of solid waste within the City without a contract
therefor with the City or a valid permit therefor.
5.   Incinerators. Burn solid waste except in approved incinerators so
maintained and operated as to prevent the emission of objectionable odors or
particulate matter.
6.   Burning Equipment Used for Heating or Destruction of Waste or in the Open.
Any woods such as that used for utility poles, railroad ties or other purposes,
without exclusion, which has been coated or impregnated with creosote,
pentachlorophenol or other chemical paint which when burned emits volatile that
create vapors which are a nuisance, likely to be unhealthful for humans and
animals, or tend to deposit any film on objects such as furnishings, cloth,
walls or other exposed services, or on plant life.
105.12   LANDFILL FEE.
1.   The disposal of solid waste as provided by this chapter is declared to be
a benefit to the property served or eligible to be served and there shall be
levied and collected a fee therefor in the amount of $5.00 per month for each
property served. The fee shall be due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment for water service as contained in Section
92.03 of this Code of Ordinances, and the provisions contained in Section
92.07 relating to notices of delinquency and lien notices shall also apply in
the event of delinquent landfill fees.
2.   For a structure containing more than one dwelling unit as defined by the
Zoning Ordinance, but being served by only one water meter, the per month
landfill fee shall be based on the multiplication of $5.00 times a number of
which is 80 percent of the dwelling units in the structure.
3.   Bags.
   A.   Bags Available. Each collector shall make readily available for sale to
the public, plastic bags which can be easily identified as having been
purchased from the collector. Bag specifications and identification means must
be approved by the City.
   B.   Bag Fee. The cost of bags to the public, whether sold directly by the
collector or through other outlets, shall be set annually by the Council.
   C.   Bags Required. All waste to be collected in said waste plastic bags
shall be placed in said approved bags, which must include identifiable
information of said solid waste collector, and the bags tied properly. The tied
bags may be placed in rigid containers as long as the bags can be handled
separately.
(Ord. 611 – Mar. 22 Supp.)
   D.   Placement. Residential bags for solid waste awaiting collecting shall
be placed outdoors at some easily accessible place by the owner or occupant of
the premises served. Said bags awaiting collection shall not be placed on or
block any City streets and/or sidewalks at any time.
(Ord. 611 – Mar. 22 Supp.)
   E.   Property Owner’s Responsibility. All property owners of apartment
dwellings shall be responsible for their tenants’ waste being placed in
approved bags when containers are provided by the property owner for the
storage of such waste awaiting collection.
105.13   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.06 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof are jointly and severally liable for the landfill fee.
Fees remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the property
or premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the County Treasurer
for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
105.14   RESIDENTIAL RECYCLING.
Residential solid waste consisting of:
1.   Any plastic jug, jar, or food container with the recycling symbol and a 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, or 7.
2.   Glass bottles and jars (green, brown, blue, and clear).
3.   Tin food and beverage containers.
4.   Aluminum cans, pie tins, trays, and foil.
5.   Metal pots and pans.
6.   Corrugated cardboard and box board.
7.   Office paper, newspapers, magazines and junk mail.
shall be picked up exclusively by the recycling contractor named in the Wright
County Landfill Authority Agreement for the recycling of residential solid
waste.
105.15   UNIT BASED PRICING.
All contract haulers of solid waste within the City shall submit to the Council
a unit based pricing policy for the Council’s approval.
105.16   PUBLIC COLLECTION SYSTEM.
The City hereby establishes a public collection and transportation system which
shall be administered as provided by law and ordinance. The collection and
transportation system established herein covers collection of covered solid
waste from all residential, commercial, industrial, and other properties within
the City and its transport to the point of disposal.
1.   Ordinance Applies to all Covered Solid Waste. All covered solid waste
generated or accumulated in the City shall be collected and conveyed to point
of disposal by the City through the public collection system, except as
expressly exempted in this chapter. No person shall collect or convey any
covered solid waste in the City, except as expressly exempted in or authorized
by this chapter.
2.   Sanitary Disposal Project Designated. The sanitary landfill facilities
operated by Wright County Area Landfill Authority are hereby designated as the
official “Public Sanitary Disposal Project” for the disposal of solid waste
produced or originating within the City.
3.   City to Supervise Collection. The City’s public collection and
transportation system will be managed by the City. The City has the authority
to interpret the provisions of this chapter and implement reasonable standard
policies which are consistent with the terms of this chapter.
4.   Exception for Transport Through City. This chapter does not prohibit
collectors or haulers of solid waste generated in, or accumulated within, other
cities, counties, or states from transporting such solid waste for disposal
through or to the City in an otherwise lawful manner. This exception does not
relieve such collectors or haulers from complying with other laws governing
such transport or disposal.
5.   Temporary Exemption for Haulers Under Contract with the City. Haulers
under contract with the City as of the date of adoption of the ordinance
codified herein are exempt from this chapter during the original term of the
contract. This exemption shall expire upon termination or expiration of the
contract.
105.17   PRE-COLLECTION PRACTICES.
1.   Waste Reduction. The City is committed to encouraging waste reduction
wherever possible, and the City shall endeavor to administer this chapter in a
way it protects the environment and the public, and provides the most practical
and beneficial use of the materials and energy values of solid waste,
implementing whenever possible goals set out in Chapter 455B.301a of the Code
of Iowa to wit:
   A.   Volume reduction at the source.
   B.   Recycling and reuse.
   C.   Other approved techniques of solid waste management, including but not
limited to combustion with energy recovery, combustion for waste disposal, and
disposal at sanitary landfills.
In addition, the City shall utilize the capabilities of private enterprise as
well as the services of the City to accomplish the desired objectives of an
effective solid waste management program, in such a manner to best meet the
goals for waste stream reduction set out in Chapter 455B.3 of the Code of Iowa,
including encouraging recycling for residential and nonresidential waste
generators.
2.   Prohibited Storage. No person shall place any solid waste in any street,
alley, road, highway or other public place, or upon any private property
(whether owned by such person or not), within the City, except in proper
containers for collection under this chapter, or under express approval granted
by the City.
3.   Unauthorized Accumulation or Deposit of Solid Waste. The unauthorized
accumulation, deposit, or handling of solid waste not otherwise covered by this
chapter is hereby prohibited. The City may, by written notification, require
the owners or occupants of property to remove any unauthorized accumulation or
deposit of solid waste in the City within a period not to exceed 10 days. If
the unauthorized accumulation or deposit of solid waste is not removed within
the specified time, the City may provide for removal of the accumulation or
deposit of solid waste at the owner’s or occupant’s expense. The City shall
then cause the expense to be a lien on the property and collected as property
taxes. This action shall not preclude the City from seeking civil or criminal
penalties from persons responsible for unauthorized accumulations or deposits
of solid waste.
   A.   Proper Storage. No persons shall store solid waste in such a manner
that it may be carried or deposited by the elements upon any public or private
premises. The owner, lessee, and occupant of any premises, business
establishment or industry shall be responsible for the satisfactory storage of
all solid waste accumulated at said person’s premises, business establishment
or industry. No building, structure, area, or premises shall be constructed or
maintained for human occupancy, use, or assembly without adequate facilities
for sanitary and safe storage and collection of all solid waste.
   B.   Household Hazardous Waste and Problem Materials. The City residents
shall be encouraged to dispose of household hazardous waste and problem
materials through a collection system specifically for household hazardous
waste, or other service provided through the Authority.
105.18   CITY-PROVIDED SERVICE.
The City will establish solid waste collection zones for residential and
commercial and industrial waste. The method of City collection applicable in
any zone will be established by resolution of the Council, as described in
Section
105.19.
1.   Service to All Properties. Every property shall receive, and the owner or
occupant thereof shall pay a fee for, collection and disposal of solid waste
and recyclables.
2.   Self-Haulers. Self-hauling of covered solid waste may be allowed, provided
that the collection, transportation, and disposal are carried out in accord
with the law and applicable ordinances and in an environmentally suitable
manner.
3.   Solid Waste Zones; Service Options. As part of initial passage of the
ordinance codified herein, the Council will establish solid waste zones for the
City. The Council will adopt a service option for each zone. In determining the
appropriate option, the Council will consider the environmental, economic, and
geographic circumstances of each zone and will consider the views of residents
and business. The Council may from time to time adopt revisions in the service
option for one or more zones.
4.   Service Options. In each zone, the Council may adopt any of the following
service options:
   A.   City Direct Service. The Council may choose to provide service directly
with City equipment and City employees.
   B.   Selected Hauler Service. The City may designate a zone as a selected
hauler zone. Under this option, the City may receive proposals, on terms
provided herein, for one or a limited number of selected haulers.
   C.   Multiple Contract Hauler Service. The City may determine to offer
standard contracts to haulers, for an initial contract period determined by the
City, under which any qualified hauler may, for the contract period, enter into
a nonexclusive uniform contract with the City to provide some of the City’s
service within the zone. The City may choose to offer contract hauler service
for residential, commercial, or industrial service, or any combination of the
three. The City may enter into contracts with multiple haulers for the same
type of service within the same zone.
   D.   Combination of City Service and Private Hauler Service. The City may
determine to provide services directly with City equipment and City employees
for a portion of the waste stream and offer standard contracts to haulers as
outlined in Paragraphs B and C above.
5.   Regional Cooperation. Upon approval of the Council, the City may enter
into joint powers agreements pursuant to Iowa Statute 28E, or successor
statutes.
105.19   COLLECTION ZONES.
1.   Solid Waste Zones Established. The following solid waste zones are hereby
established.
   A.   Residential Zones. The residential zones set out in Appendix A to the
ordinance codified herein are hereby adopted as the residential collection
zones under this chapter.
   B.   Commercial and Industrial Zones. The commercial and industrial zones
set out in Appendix B to the ordinance codified herein are hereby adopted as
the commercial and industrial zones under this chapter.
2.   Resolution Determining Method of Collection and Conveyance. The Council
may by resolution establish the mechanism for collection and conveyance of
covered solid waste for each solid waste zone. The City may select any of the
service options described in this chapter and may by ordinance establish the
fees applicable to that service.
3.   Different Service Options May Apply to Different Waste Categories. The
City may determine that different categories of covered solid waste will be
collected using different methods of collection in the same zone.
4.   Factors Involved in Determination. In deciding which service option should
be used in a zone, the Council may consider any factors affecting the public
interest, including environmental and public health factors and the expressed
preferences of citizens of the zone. The Council may also consider whether the
selection provides the most economical conveyance and best service.
5.   Zone Boundaries. A change in the City’s borders will result in a
corresponding change in zone borders.
6.   City Direct Service Zone. The City may determine that residential or
nonresidential collection and conveyance services, or both, will be provided
directly by City employees with City equipment.
7.   Selected Hauler Service Zone. The City may determine that City residential
or commercial and industrial collection and conveyance services, or both, will
be provided to the City by one or more selected private haulers operating under
contract with the City; however, there shall be no more than one hauler
operation within each zone for each type of service.
   A.   Solicitation of Hauler Proposals. In a selected hauler service zone,
the Council will select one or more contract haulers to provide collection and
conveyance services for covered solid waste. The City may award contracts to
selected haulers for periods as specified by the Council. As part of the
process of selecting haulers, the City may solicit proposals for negotiated
contracts from individual haulers. Upon receipt of proposals, the City may
accept one or more of these proposals, or may negotiate with one or more
haulers to obtain new or different terms from those originally proposed by the
haulers. The City may negotiate with potential haulers on price and terms of
service. The contract with any selected hauler may provide that the hauler will
be the only selected hauler for one or more classes of service, or may provide
that there will be a limited number of haulers for one or more classes of
service. Any contract negotiated by the City must be approved by the Council.
   B.   Negotiated Reimbursement Rates. The hauler contract may establish
hauler reimbursement rates for commercial, industrial, and residential services
and the City shall by resolution establish rates for residential services. The
City may elect to contract with different haulers for different types of
services.
   C.   Additional Reimbursement. Hauler contracts may establish separate
reimbursement rates for residential service that are additional to the basic
residential services.
   D.   Designation of Customers and Routes. Hauler contracts may provide that
selected haulers will serve all of the customers within the selected route
within the zone, or particular classifications of customers within all or a
portion of the zone.
8.   Multiple Contract Hauler Zone. The City may designate any zone as a
multiple contract hauler zone. In a multiple contract hauler zone, the City
will provide collection and transportation services under contract with any
qualified hauler who agrees to enter into a contract specified by the City for
a contract term specified by the City.
   A.   City May Limit Classification of Waste Collected. The City may
determine that only certain classifications of covered solid waste may be
collected by multiple contract haulers.
   B.   Haulers May Serve Any Customer. Haulers operating under contract to
serve a zone will have an equal right to serve any property within the zone;
provided that, if the contract is limited to a particular classification of
covered solid waste, the hauler may collect only that classification of covered
solid waste. The City may require minimum levels of service, but City contract
haulers may offer differing types and qualities of service from those of other
City contract haulers. Haulers may compete with other City contract haulers to
determine who will serve individual properties.
   C.   Rates Paid by City Customer. The multiple hauler contract will provide
that City customers will pay user fees to haulers. Rates charged to City
customers in multiple hauler service zones will be set by haulers, subject to
any limitations which may be set in the contract with the City. Contract
haulers may offer differing charges and schedules of rates.
   D.   Procedure for Letting Contracts. From time to time, the City may
establish the contents of contracts applicable to qualified haulers within a
zone. Contracts may be offered for terms specified by the Council. The City may
set contract terms for residential or commercial/industrial service, or any
classification of services.
      (1)   Solicitation for Proposal. Prior to offering contracts, the City
may solicit proposals for multiple contract hauler zone contracts. The City may
enter into negotiations with haulers to set the terms under which haulers will
sign such contracts, and the negotiations may cover price, terms of service,
and such other contract terms as the City may specify.
      (2)   Conversion to Selected Hauler Zones. If the City determines that
there is insufficient interest in entering into contracts on a multiple hauler
basis, or the Council determines that the public interest would otherwise be
served, the City may by ordinance convert a multiple contract hauler zone to a
selected hauler zone and sign contracts with an individual hauler on terms
authorized by this chapter.
9.   Residential and Commercial/Industrial Service. This subsection governs the
terms of City provided residential and commercial/industrial service.
   A.   Mandatory Service. The owner or occupant of every property shall
dispose of covered solid waste by City provided collection and disposal
service, or if a self-hauler, ensure that the disposal of covered solid waste
is carried out in an environmentally suitable manner.
      (1)   City May Promulgate Regulations. The City may from time to time
establish regulations governing the size and type of containers, requirements
for maintenance of cans, limitation of materials and placement for collection
applicable within one or more solid waste zones. The City may from time to time
establish regulations providing that certain classes of property or waste shall
be handled as non-residential waste, or shall be subject to special collection
and disposal requirements.
      (2)   Recycling Regulations. The City may from time to time establish
regulations governing recycling for residential and commercial/industrial waste
generators.
   B.   Minimum Required City Service. The City may establish a minimum level
of City provided service for residential and non-residential properties for
each district. The City may establish the amount and frequency of service which
will be received by users within the district in return for the minimum service
charge.
      (1)   Minimum Service Fee. The City may establish a minimum service fee
payable in a solid waste zone. The fee may vary within the zone according to
location, type of residence, classification of property, volume of covered
solid waste, or other relevant factors.
      (2)   Billing. Any service fee payable to the City shall be billed in a
manner established by resolution of the Council.
      (3)   Fees for Services Beyond Minimum Required Service. Haulers in any
zone may offer services beyond the minimum level of service required by the
City. Fees for such service may be negotiated between the hauler and the
individual customer.
10.   Unpaid Fees. In addition to the remedies provided for in Section
105.14, if an owner or any person obligated to pay a service fee owed to the
City fails to pay the fee in the manner prescribed, the City, for itself or on
behalf of its contractors, may recover unpaid fees due under this chapter in
any manner authorized by law, including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   Certification to the County Treasurer. All rates or charges for solid
waste collection services owed to the City, if not paid as provided by this
chapter, shall be a lien upon the property or premises served by any of these
services, upon certification to the County Treasurer that the rates or charges
are due, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 384.84 of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   Civil Action. In addition to each and every other remedy available to
the City, unpaid service fees, penalties, and interest may be recovered in a
civil action in the name of the City or its contractors.
105.20   SAVINGS CLAUSE.
In the event that court of competent jurisdiction determines that any provision
of this chapter, including any of the service options included therein, are
unlawful or unauthorized by law, such provisions shall nonetheless survive, and
the City shall select service options from the remaining options. If any court
of competent jurisdiction shall rule that the application of any provision
herein is invalid to a particular person or property, such judgment shall not
affect the application of said provision to any other person or property not
specifically included in the judgment.
105.21   ENFORCEMENT.
The regulations contained herein govern violations or threatened violations and
provide mechanisms for the City to use in attaining compliance with this
chapter herein pertaining to solid waste control.
1.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, or who
fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the provisions contained herein, or
who knowingly makes any false statement in any document required to be
submitted under the provisions hereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each
day that a violation occurs will constitute a separate offense.
2.   In the event of a violation or a threatened violation of this chapter, the
City, in addition to other remedies, may institute appropriate action or
proceedings to prevent, prosecute, restrain, or abate such violations or
threatened violations, and it shall be the duty of the City Attorney to
commence such action.
CHAPTER 110
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
110.01 Franchise Granted            110.09 Indemnification
110.02 Rights and Privileges        110.10 Information
110.03 Pipes and Mains              110.11 Applicable Regulations
110.04 Construction and Maintenance 110.12 Franchise Fee
110.05 Excavations                  110.13 Management Fees
110.06 Utility Easements            110.14 Applicability
110.07 Relocation not Required      110.15 Termination
110.08 Relocation Reimbursement     110.16 Effective
 
110.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, an Iowa corporation,
(hereinafter called “Company”), and to its successors and assigns the right and
franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain and operate in the City of
Clarion, Iowa, (hereinafter called the “City”), a gas distribution system, to
furnish natural gas along, under and upon the right-of-way, streets, avenues,
alleys and public places to serve customers within and without the City and to
furnish and sell natural gas to the City and its inhabitants. For the term of
this franchise, the Company is granted the right of eminent domain, the
exercise of which is subject to City Council approval upon application by the
Company. This franchise shall be effective for a 25-year period from and after
the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.† 5
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 573, adopting a natural gas franchise for the
5 City, was passed and adopted on April 17, 2017.
   
110.02   RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions and
limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa 2017, or as subsequently amended
or changed.
110.03   PIPES AND MAINS.
Company shall have the right to excavate in any public street for the purpose
of laying, relaying, repairing or extending gas pipes, mains, conduits, and
other facilities provided that the same shall be so placed as not to
unreasonably interfere with any above or below-ground utility services or
facilities which have been or may hereafter be located by or under authority of
the City.
110.04   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
The Company shall, excluding facilities located in private easements (whether
titled in Company exclusively or in Company and other entities), in accordance
with Iowa law including Company’s tariff on file with and made effective by the
Iowa Utilities Board as may subsequently be amended (“Tariff,”) at its cost and
expense, locate and relocate its existing facilities or equipment in, on, over
or under any public street or alley in the City in such a manner as the City
may reasonably require for the purposes of facilitating the construction,
reconstruction, maintenance or repair of the street or alley. Relocation
expenses for other hard surfaces, including pedestrian and nonmotorized vehicle
pathways, will be paid by the City. If the City has a reasonable alternative
route for the street, right-of-way or alley or an alternative construction
method, which would not cause the relocation of Company installations or would
minimize the cost or expense of relocation of Company installations, the City
and Company shall work together to consider said alternative route or
construction method. The City shall be responsible for surveying and staking
the right-of-way for City projects that require relocation of Company
facilities. If requested the City shall provide, at no cost to the Company,
copies of its relocation plan and profile and cross section drawings. If tree
and vegetation removal must be completed by the City as part of the City’s
project and are necessary whether or not utility facilities must be relocated,
the City at its own cost shall be responsible for said removals. If the timing
of the tree/vegetation removal does not coincide with the Company facilities
relocation schedule and Company must remove trees/vegetation that are included
in the City’s portion of the project, the City shall either remove the material
at its cost or reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred to remove said
vegetation or trees. If project funds from a source other than the City are
available to pay for the relocation of utility facilities, the City shall
attempt to secure said funds and provide them to the Company to compensate the
Company for the costs of relocation.
110.05   EXCAVATIONS.
In making excavations in any streets, avenues, alleys and public places for the
installation of gas pipes, conduits or apparatus, Company shall not
unreasonably obstruct the use of the streets and shall replace the surface,
restoring it to the condition as existed immediately prior to excavation. The
Company in making such excavations shall, if required by ordinance, obtain a
City permit therefore and provide City representatives with advance notice
prior to the actual commencement of the work, and shall comply with all
provisions and requirements of the City in its regulation of the use of City
right-of-way in performing such work. In emergencies which require immediate
excavation, the Company may proceed with the work without first applying for or
obtaining the permit, provided, however, that Company shall apply for and
obtain the excavation permit as soon as possible after commencing such
emergency work. The Company shall comply with all City ordinances regarding
paving cuts, placement of facilities and restoration of pavement and other
public infrastructure. The Company shall replace the surface, restoring the
condition as existed prior to the Company’s excavation but shall not be
required to improve or modify the public right-of-way, sidewalks or other areas
in or adjacent to the Company project to a condition superior to its immediate
previously existing condition. Company shall complete all repairs in a timely
manner. Company agrees any replacement of road surface shall conform to current
City ordinances regarding its depth and composition.
110.06   UTILITY EASEMENTS.
The City’s vacating a street, avenue, alley, public ground or public right-of-
way shall not deprive the Company of its right to operate and maintain existing
facilities on, below, above, or beneath the vacated property. Prior to the City
abandoning or vacating any street, avenue, alley or public ground where the
Company has facilities in the vicinity, the City shall provide Company with not
less than 60 days advance notice of the City’s proposed action and, upon
request grant the Company a utility easement covering existing and future
facilities and activities. If the City fails to grant the Company a utility
easement for said facilities prior to abandoning or vacating a street, avenue,
alley or public ground, the City shall, at its cost and expense, obtain
easements for the existing Company facilities.
110.07   RELOCATION NOT REQUIRED.
The Company shall not be required to relocate, at its cost and expense, Company
facilities in the public right-of-way that have been relocated at Company
expense at the direction of the City at any time during the previous 10 years.
110.08   RELOCATION REIMBURSEMENT.
Pursuant to relocation of Company facilities as may be required here under, if
the City orders or requests the Company to relocate its existing facilities or
equipment in order to directly or indirectly facilitate the project of a
commercial or private developer or other non-public entity, City shall
reimburse or the City shall require the developer or non-public entity to
reimburse the Company for the cost of such relocation as a precondition to
relocation. The Company shall not be required to relocate in order to
facilitate such private project at its expense
110.09   INDEMNIFICATION.
The Company shall indemnify and save harmless the City from any and all claims,
suits, losses, damages, costs or expenses, on account of injury or damage to
any person or property, to the extent caused or occasioned by the Company’s
negligence in construction, reconstruction, excavation, operation or
maintenance of the natural gas facilities authorized by this franchise;
provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to defend, indemnify
and save harmless the City for any costs or damages to the extent arising from
the negligence of the City, its officers, employees or agents.
110.10   INFORMATION.
Upon reasonable request, the Company shall provide the City, on a project
specific basis, information indicating the horizontal location, relative to
boundaries of the right-of-way, of all equipment which it owns or over which it
has control that is located in the public right-of-way, including documents,
maps and other information in paper or electronic or other forms
(“Information”). The Company and City recognize the information may in whole or
part be considered a confidential record under State or federal law or both.
Upon receipt of a request from a third party for information concerning
information about the Company’s facilities within the City, the City will
promptly submit same to Company. If the Company believes any of the information
requested constitutes a trade secret which may otherwise be protected from
public disclosure by State or federal law, or otherwise exempt from disclosure
under the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission Critical Energy Infrastructure requirements pursuant to
18 CFR 388.112 and 388.113, or Chapter 22 of the Code of Iowa, as such statutes
and regulations may be amended from time to time, then the Company shall
provide the City with a written explanation of the basis for such assertion of
confidentiality or exemption from disclosure within 10 days.
110.11   APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
The Company shall extend its mains and pipes and operate, and maintain the
system in accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities
Board or its successors and Iowa law. During the term of this franchise, the
Company shall furnish natural gas in the quantity and quality consistent with
and in accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board,
the Company’s tariff and made effective by the Iowa Utilities Board or its
successors and Iowa law.
110.12   FRANCHISE FEE.
There is hereby imposed upon the customers a franchise fee of five percent upon
the gross revenues, minus uncollectible accounts, generated from sales of
natural gas and distribution service by the Company within the corporate limits
of the City. The franchise fee shall be remitted by the Company to the City on
or before the last business day of the calendar quarter following the close of
the calendar quarter in which the franchise fee is charged.
1.   The City agrees to modify the level of franchise fees imposed only once in
any 24-month period.
2.   The Company will commence collecting franchise fees on or before the first
Company billing cycle of the first calendar month following 90 days of receipt
of information required of the City to implement the franchise fee, including
the City’s documentation of customer classes subject to or exempted from City-
imposed franchise fee.
3.   The City shall be solely responsible for identifying customer classes
subject to or exempt from paying the City imposed franchise fee. The Company
shall have no obligation to collect franchise fees from customers in annexed
areas until and unless such ordinances have been provided to the Company by
certified mail. The Company shall commence collecting franchise fees in the
annexed areas no sooner than 60 days after receiving annexation ordinances from
the City.
4.   The Company shall not, under any circumstances be required to return or
refund any franchise fees that have been collected from customers and remitted
to the City. In the event the Company is required to provide data or
information in defense of the City’s imposition of franchise fees or the
Company is required to assist the City in identifying customers or calculating
any franchise fee refunds for groups of or individual customers the City shall
reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred by the Company to provide such
data or information
110.13   MANAGEMENT FEES.
Upon implementation of a franchise fee, the City shall not, pursuant to Chapter
480A.6 of the Code of Iowa, impose or charge Company right-of-way management
fees for permits for Company construction, maintenance, repairs, excavation,
pavement cutting or inspections of Company work sites and projects or related
matters.
110.14   APPLICABILITY.
This franchise shall apply to and bind the City and Company and their
successors and assigns.
110.15   TERMINATION.
Either City or Company (“party”) may terminate this franchise if the other
party shall be materially in breach of its provisions. Upon the occurrence of a
material breach, the non-breaching party shall provide the breaching party with
notification by certified mail specifying the alleged breach. The breaching
party shall have 60 days to cure the breach, unless it notifies the non-
breaching party, and the parties agree upon a shorter or longer period for
cure. If the breach is not cured within the cure period, the non-breaching
party may terminate this franchise. A party shall not be considered to be in
breach of this franchise if it has operated in compliance with State or federal
law. A party shall not be considered to have breached this franchise if the
alleged breach is the result of the actions of a third party or the other
party.
110.16   EFFECTIVE.
This ordinance and the rights and privileges herein granted shall become
effective and binding upon its approval and passage in accordance with Iowa law
and the written acceptance by the Company. The City shall provide Company with
an original signed and sealed copy of this ordinance within 10 days of its
final passage. The Company shall, within 30 days after the City Council
approval of this ordinance, file in the office of the Clerk of the City, its
acceptance in writing of all the provisions of this ordinance. Following City
Council approval, this ordinance shall be published in accordance with the Code
of Iowa. The effective date of this ordinance shall be the date of publication.
In the event that the Company does not file its written acceptance of this
ordinance within 30 days after its approval by the City Council, this ordinance
shall be void and of no effect.
CHAPTER 111
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
111.01 Franchise Granted            111.10 Trimming Trees
111.02 Rights and Privileges        111.11 Information
111.03 Poles and Wires              111.12 Applicable Regulations
111.04 Construction and Maintenance 111.13 Franchise Fee
111.05 Excavations                  111.14 Management Fees
111.06 Utility Easements            111.15 Applicability
111.07 Relocation Not Required      111.16 Termination
111.08 Relocation Reimbursement     111.17 Effective
111.09 Indemnification
 
111.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, an Iowa corporation,
(hereinafter called “Company”), and its successors and assigns, the right and
non-exclusive franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain and operate in
the City of Clarion, Iowa, (hereinafter called the “City”), a system for the
transmission and distribution of electric energy and communications signals
along, under, over and upon the streets, avenues, rights-of-way and alleys to
serve customers within the City, and to furnish and sell electric energy to the
City and its inhabitants. The Company is granted the right to exercise of
powers of eminent domain, subject to City Council approval. This franchise
shall be effective for a 25-year period from and after the effective date of
the ordinance codified in this chapter.† 6
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 572, adopting an electric franchise for the
6 City, was passed and adopted on April 17, 2017.
   
111.02   RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions and
limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa or as subsequently amended or
changed.
111.03   POLES AND WIRES.
The Company shall have the right to erect all necessary poles and to place
thereon the necessary wires, fixtures and accessories as well as to excavate
and bury conduits or conductors for the distribution of electric energy and
communications signals in and through the City, provided the same shall be
placed in accord with this franchise and City code regulations of the City,
regarding the placement of structures, facilities, accessories or other objects
in the right-of-way, including ordinances which assign corridors or other
placements to users of the right-of-way and requirements which may be adopted
regarding separation of structures, facilities, accessories or other objects.
111.04   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
The Company shall, excluding facilities located in private easements (whether
titled in Company exclusively or in Company and other entities), in accordance
with Iowa law including Company’s Tariff on file with and made effective by the
Iowa Utilities Board as may subsequently be amended (“Tariff”), at its cost and
expense, locate and relocate its existing installations located in, on, over or
under the right-of-way of any public street, right-of-way or alley in the City
in such a manner as the City may require for the purposes of facilitating the
construction, reconstruction, maintenance or repair of the street, right-of-way
or alley. Relocation expenses for other hard surfaces, including pedestrian and
non-motorized vehicle pathways, will be paid by the City. If the City has a
reasonable alternative route for the street, right-of-way or alley or an
alternative construction method, which would not cause the relocation of
Company installations or would minimize the cost or expense of relocation of
Company installations, the City and Company shall work together to consider
said alternative route or construction method. The City shall, in the extension
or modification of streets and roads, make provision for the placement of
Company service lines and facilities on City-owned right-of-way without charge
to Company. In planning for the extension or modification of streets, the City
shall, to the extent practicable, design such changes to limit the need for
relocation of Company facilities. The City shall be responsible for surveying
and staking the right-of-way for City projects that require the Company to
relocate Company facilities. If requested, the City shall provide, at no cost
to the Company, copies of the relocation plan and profile and cross section
drawings. If vegetation and tree removals must be completed by the City as part
of the City’s project and are necessary whether or not utility facilities must
be relocated, the City at its own cost shall be responsible for said removals.
If the timing of vegetation and tree removals does not coincide with Company’s
facilities relocation schedule and the Company must remove vegetation and trees
that are included in the City’s portion of the project, the City shall either
remove them or reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred to remove said
materials. If project funds from a source other than the City are available to
pay for the relocation of utility facilities, the City shall use its best
efforts to secure said funds and provide them to the Company to compensate the
Company for the costs of relocation.
111.05   EXCAVATIONS.
In making excavations in any streets, avenues and public places for the
installation, maintenance or repair of conductor, conduits or the erection of
poles and wires or other appliances, the Company shall not unreasonably
obstruct the use of the streets. The Company in making such excavations shall,
if required by ordinance, obtain a City permit therefore and provide City
representatives with advance notice prior to the actual commencement of the
work, and shall comply with all provisions and requirements of the City in its
regulation of the use of City right-of-way in performing such work. In
emergencies which require immediate excavation, the Company may proceed with
the work without first applying for or obtaining the permit, provided, however,
that Company shall apply for and obtain the excavation permit as soon as
possible after commencing such emergency work. The Company shall comply with
all City ordinances regarding paving cuts, placement of facilities and
restoration of pavement and other public infrastructure. The Company shall
replace the surface, restoring the condition as existed prior to the Company’s
excavation but shall not be required to improve or modify the public right-of-
way, sidewalks or other areas in or adjacent to the Company project to a
condition superior to its immediate previously existing condition. Company
shall complete all repairs in a timely manner. Company agrees any replacement
of road surface shall conform to current City ordinances regarding its depth
and composition.
111.06   UTILITY EASEMENTS.
The City’s vacating a street, avenue, alley, public ground, or public right-of-
way shall not deprive the Company of its right to operate and maintain existing
facilities on, below, above, or beneath the vacated property. Prior to the City
abandoning or vacating any street, avenue, alley or public ground where the
Company has facilities in the vicinity, the City shall provide Company with not
less than 60-days’ advance notice of the City’s proposed action and, upon
request grant the Company a utility easement covering existing and future
facilities and activities. If the City fails to grant the Company a utility
easement for said facilities prior to abandoning or vacating a street, avenue,
alley or public ground, the City shall at its cost and expense obtain easements
for the existing Company facilities.
111.07   RELOCATION NOT REQUIRED.
The Company shall not be required to relocate, at its cost and expense, Company
facilities in the public right-of-way that have been relocated at Company
expense at the direction of the City in the previous 10 years.
111.08   RELOCATION REIMBURSEMENT.
Pursuant to relocation of Company facilities, if the City orders or requests
the Company to relocate its existing facilities or equipment in order to
directly facilitate a project for the primary benefit of a commercial or
private developer or other non-public entity, the City shall require the
developer or non-public entity to reimburse the Company for the cost of such
relocation as a precondition to relocation of its existing facilities or
equipment. The Company shall not be required at its expense to relocate in
order to facilitate such private project.
111.09   INDEMNIFICATION.
The Company shall indemnify, save and hold harmless the City from any and all
claims, suits, losses, damages, costs or expenses, on account of injury or
damage to any person or property, to the extent caused or occasioned by the
Company’s negligence in construction, reconstruction, excavation, operation or
maintenance of the electric facilities authorized by this franchise; provided,
however, that the Company shall not be obligated to defend, indemnify and save
harmless the City for any costs or damages to the extent arising from the
negligence of the City, its officers, employees or agents.
111.10   TRIMMING TREES.
The pruning and removal of vegetation and trees shall be done in accordance
with current nationally accepted safety and utility industry standards and
federal and State law, rules and regulations. The pruning and removal of
vegetation and trees shall be done in accordance with current nationally
accepted safety and utility industry standards and federal and State law, rules
and regulations. The Company is authorized and empowered to prune or remove at
Company expense, any tree extending into any street, avenue, right-of-way,
alley, public place or public grounds to maintain electric reliability, safety,
to restore utility service and to prevent limbs, branches, or trunks from
interfering with the wires and facilities of the Company. The pruning and
removal of vegetation and trees shall be completed in accordance with
nationally accepted safety and utility standards, NSI Z133.1-2012, American
National Standard for Arboricultural Operations-Safety Requirements, and ANSI
A300(part 1) – 2008 Pruning, (Revision of ANSI A300 part 1-2001) American
National Standard for Tree, Shrub, and other Woody Plant Management – Standard
of Practices (Pruning) or subsequent revisions to these standards, and City
ordinances regarding the pruning of trees that incorporate by reference that
standard.
111.11   INFORMATION.
Upon reasonable request, the Company shall provide the City, on a project
specific basis, information indicating the horizontal location, relative to
boundaries of the right-of-way, of all equipment which it owns or over which it
has control that is located in City right-of-way, including documents, maps,
and other information in paper or electronic or other forms (“Information”).
The Company and City recognize the Information may in whole or part be
considered a confidential record under State or federal law or both. Therefore,
City shall not release any Information without prior consent of the Company and
shall return the Information to Company upon request. City recognizes that
Company claims the Information may constitute a trade secret or is otherwise
protected from public disclosure by State or federal law on other grounds, and
agrees to retain the Information in its non-public files. Furthermore, the City
agrees that no documents, maps or other Information provided to the City by the
Company shall be made available to the public or other entities if such
documents or Information are exempt from disclosure under the provisions of the
Freedom of Information Act, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Critical
Energy Infrastructure requirements pursuant to 18 CFR 388.112 and 388.113, or
Chapter 22 of the Code of Iowa, as such statutes and regulations may be amended
from time to time, then the Company shall provide the City with a written
explanation of the basis for such assertion of confidentiality or exemption
from disclosure within 10 days.
111.12   APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
The Company shall construct, operate and maintain its facilities in accordance
with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board or its successors
and Iowa law. During the term of this franchise, the Company shall furnish
electric energy in the quantity and quality consistent with and in accordance
with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board, the Company’s
tariff and made effective by the Iowa Utilities Board or its successors and
Iowa law.
111.13   FRANCHISE FEE.
There is hereby imposed upon the customers a franchise fee of five percent upon
the gross revenues, minus uncollectible accounts, generated from sales of
electricity and distribution service by the Company within the corporate limits
of the City. The franchise fee shall be remitted by the Company to the City on
or before the last business day of the calendar quarter following the close of
the calendar quarter in which the franchise fee is charged.
1.   The City agrees to modify the level of franchise fees imposed only once in
any 24-month period.
2.   The Company will commence collecting franchise fees on or before the first
Company billing cycle of the first calendar month following 90 days of receipt
of information required of the City to implement the franchise fee, including
the City’s documentation of customer classes subject to or exempted from City-
imposed franchise fee.
3.   The City shall be solely responsible for identifying customer classes
subject to or exempt from paying the City imposed franchise fee. The Company
shall have no obligation to collect franchise fees from customers in annexed
areas until and unless such ordinances have been provided to the Company by
certified mail. The Company shall commence collecting franchise fees in the
annexed areas no sooner than 60 days after receiving annexation ordinances from
the City.
4.   The Company shall not, under any circumstances be required to return or
refund any franchise fees that have been collected from customers and remitted
to the City. In the event the Company is required to provide data or
information in defense of the City’s imposition of franchise fees or the
Company is required to assist the City in identifying customers or calculating
any franchise fee refunds for groups of or individual customers the City shall
reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred by the Company to provide such
data or information.
111.14   MANAGEMENT FEES.
Upon implementation of a franchise fee, the City shall not, pursuant to Chapter
480A.6 of the Code of Iowa, impose or charge Company right-of-way management
fees for permits for Company construction, maintenance, repairs, excavation,
pavement cutting or inspections of Company work sites and projects or related
matters.
111.15   APPLICABILITY.
This franchise shall apply to and bind the City and Company and their
successors and assigns.
111.16   TERMINATION.
Either City or Company (“party”) may terminate this franchise if the other
party shall be materially in breach of its provisions. Upon the occurrence of a
material breach, the non-breaching party shall provide the breaching party with
notification by certified mail specifying the alleged breach. The breaching
party shall have 60 days to cure the breach, unless it notifies the non-
breaching party, and the parties agree upon a longer period for cure. If the
breach is not cured within the cure period, the non-breaching party may
terminate this franchise. A party shall not be considered to be in breach of
this franchise if it has operated in compliance with State or Federal law. A
party shall not be considered to have breached this franchise if the alleged
breach is the result of the actions of a third party or the other party.
111.17   EFFECTIVE.
This ordinance and the rights and privileges herein granted shall become
effective and binding upon its approval and passage in accordance with Iowa law
and the written acceptance by the Company. The City shall provide Company with
an original signed and sealed copy of this ordinance within 10 days of its
final passage. The Company shall, within 30 days after the City Council
approval of this ordinance, file in the office of the Clerk of the City, its
acceptance in writing of all the terms and provisions of this ordinance.
Following City Council approval, this ordinance shall be published in
accordance with the Code of Iowa. The effective date of this ordinance shall be
the date of publication. In the event Company does not file its written
acceptance of this ordinance within 30 days after its approval by the City
Council, this ordinance shall be void and of no effect.
CHAPTER 115
CEMETERY
 
115.01 Definition                      115.06 Perpetual Care
115.02 Trusteeship                     115.07 Cemetery Lots Without Perpetual
                                       Care
115.03 Duties of Public Works Director 115.08 Annual Care
115.04 Records                         115.09 Rules and Regulations
115.05 Sale of Interment Rights        115.10 Prohibitions and Restrictions
 
115.01   DEFINITION.
The term “cemetery” means the Clarion Evergreen Cemetery, which is a municipal
cemetery under the provisions of Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa and which
shall be operated under the provisions of Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa and
this chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.501)
115.02   TRUSTEESHIP.
Pursuant to Section 523I.502 of the Code of Iowa, the City Council hereby
states its willingness and intention to act as the trustee for the perpetual
maintenance of the cemetery property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.502)
115.03   DUTIES OF PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
The Public Works Director shall operate the cemetery in accordance with the
rules and regulations therefor and under the direction of the Council. The
duties of the Public Works Director are as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Supervise Openings. Supervise the opening of all graves and be present at
every interment in the cemetery;
2.   Maintenance. Be responsible for the maintenance of the cemetery buildings,
grounds, and equipment and make a monthly report of the cemetery operation to
the Council.
115.04   RECORDS.
It is the duty of the Clerk to make and keep complete records identifying the
owners of all interment rights sold by the cemetery and historical information
regarding any transfers of ownership. The records shall include all of the
following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.311)
1.   Sales or Transfers of Interment Rights.
   A.   The name and last known address of each owner or previous owner of
interment rights.
   B.   The date of each purchase or transfer of interment rights.
   C.   A unique numeric or alphanumeric identifier that identifies the
location of each interment space sold by the cemetery.
2.   Interments.
   A.   The date the remains are interred.
   B.   The name, date of birth, and date of death of the decedent interred, if
those facts can be conveniently obtained.
   C.   A unique numeric or alphanumeric identifier that identifies the
location of each interment space where the remains are interred.
115.05   SALE OF INTERMENT RIGHTS.
The sale or transfer of interment rights in the cemetery shall be evidenced by
a certificate of interment rights or other instrument evidencing the conveyance
of exclusive rights of interment upon payment in full of the purchase price.
The agreement for interment rights shall disclose all information required by
Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa. The payment of all fees and charges shall be
made at the office of the Clerk where receipts will be issued for all amounts
paid. Said fees and charges shall be based upon the charges as established by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.310)
115.06   PERPETUAL CARE.
The Council, by resolution, shall accept, receive, and expend all moneys and
property donated or left to them by bequest for perpetual care, and that
portion of interment space sales or permanent charges made against interment
spaces which has been set aside in a perpetual care fund. The assets of the
perpetual care fund shall be invested in accordance with State law. The
Council, by resolution, shall provide for the payment of interest annually to
the appropriate fund, or to the cemetery, or to the person in charge of the
cemetery to be used in caring for or maintaining the individual property of the
donor in the cemetery, or interment spaces which have been sold with provisions
for perpetual care, all in accordance with the terms of the donation or
bequest, or the terms of the sale or purchase of an interment space and Chapter
523I of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.503, 523I.507, and 523I.508)
115.07   CEMETERY LOTS WITHOUT PERPETUAL CARE.
Owners of lots or other interested persons may secure perpetual care on lots or
parts of lots in the older portions of the cemetery not having perpetual care
by the payment to the City of the perpetual care charges at the rates specified
in the rules and regulations.
115.08   ANNUAL CARE.
An annual care charge as specified in the rules and regulations shall be made
by the City on those lots in the older portions of the cemetery which are not
at present under perpetual or endowed care. The City reserves the right to
refuse to furnish maintenance service, or to permit the erection of any
monumental work on those lots not under perpetual or endowed care or when the
annual care on such lot has not been paid in advance.
115.09   RULES AND REGULATIONS.
Rules and regulations for the cemetery may be adopted, and may be amended from
time to time, by resolution of the Council and may cover such things as the
use, care, control, management, restrictions and protection of the cemetery as
necessary for the proper conduct of the business of the cemetery. The rules
shall specify the cemetery’s obligations in the event that interment spaces,
memorials, or memorializations are damaged or defaced by acts of vandalism. Any
veteran, as defined in Section 35.1 of the Code of Iowa, who is a landowner or
who lives within the City shall be allowed to purchase an interment space and
to be interred within the cemetery. In addition, any veteran who purchases an
interment space within the cemetery shall be allowed to purchase an interment
space for interment of the spouse of the veteran if such a space is available,
and the surviving spouse of a veteran interred within the cemetery shall be
allowed to purchase an interment space and be interred within the cemetery if
such a space is available.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.304)
115.10   PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
1.   Snowmobiles. No person shall operate a snowmobile within the cemetery
grounds.
2.   Recreational Vehicles. No person shall use or operate a bicycle, moped,
skateboard, or motorcycle within the cemetery grounds; provided, however, the
provisions of this section do not apply to a person visiting a gravesite or
seeking direct access to and from the fishing stream.
3.   Alcoholic Beverages. No person shall partake of alcoholic beverages on the
cemetery grounds.
CHAPTER 116
AIRPORT REGULATIONS
 
116.01 Jurisdiction          116.06 Airport Fund
116.02 Rules and Regulations 116.07 Employee Compensation
116.03 Schedule of Charges   116.08 Vehicle Parking
116.04 Manager               116.09 Damaging Airport
116.05 Reports by Manager
 
116.01   JURISDICTION.
The Clarion Municipal Airport shall at all times be under the jurisdiction of
the Council.
116.02   RULES AND REGULATIONS.
The Council may, by resolution, prescribe rules and regulations for the conduct
and operation of such airport, which rules and regulations shall be effective
by posting in a conspicuous place upon the grounds and at the hangar thereon.
116.03   SCHEDULE OF CHARGES.
The Council may from time to time establish and collect a schedule of charges
for the use of such airport or any part thereof, which charges shall be used in
connection with the maintenance and operation of the airport.
116.04   MANAGER.
The Public Works Director shall serve as manager to operate and maintain the
airport. The Council may employ such other help which may be needed for the
operation and maintenance thereof.
116.05   REPORTS BY MANAGER.
The manager shall make a full and complete report to the Council at the first
regular meeting each quarter as to the condition of the airport and all
property and equipment thereon belonging to the City and shall also make an
itemized report of the receipts and disbursements.
116.06   AIRPORT FUND.
All funds derived from the operation of the airport shall be reported to the
Clerk and paid by the Clerk to the Treasurer and the same shall be kept in a
separate fund which shall be expended only for the maintenance and operation of
the airport and for the payment of interest and bonds outstanding for the
purchase and equipping thereof.
116.07   EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION.
The compensation of the manager of the airport and other employees shall be set
by the Council from time to time by resolution.
116.08   VEHICLE PARKING.
All vehicles shall be parked upon the driveways and the streets and highways
adjacent to the airport in accordance with the rules and regulations
established by resolution of the Council, and posted on the airport grounds and
hangar.
116.09   DAMAGING AIRPORT.
It is unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any property located upon
the Clarion Municipal Airport premises, or to loiter thereon or to drive or
park any vehicle upon the field or runways thereof without special permission
of the Council, or to violate any rule or regulation of the Council pertaining
to such airport, or any rule or regulation of the Iowa State Utilities Board,
or the United States Department of Commerce or other departments of the federal
government having supervision of air navigation.
CHAPTER 120
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS
 
120.01 License or Permit Required 120.04 Action by Council
120.02 General Prohibition        120.05 Prohibited Sales and Acts
120.03 Investigation              120.06 Amusement Devices
 
120.01   LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, or offer or keep for sale,
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a liquor control
license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122, and 123.171)
120.02   GENERAL PROHIBITION.
It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer, or keep for sale, possess,
or transport alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer except upon the terms, conditions,
limitations, and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa,
and a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil penalty may be
imposed for a violation thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39, and 123.50)
120.03   INVESTIGATION.
Upon receipt of an application for a liquor license, wine or beer permit, the
Clerk may forward it to the Police Chief, who shall then conduct an
investigation and submit a written report as to the truth of the facts averred
in the application. The Fire Chief may also inspect the premises to determine
if they conform to the requirements of the City. The Council shall not approve
an application for a license or permit for any premises that does not conform
to the applicable law and ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.30)
120.04   ACTION BY COUNCIL.
The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of a liquor control
license, a retail wine permit, or a retail beer permit and shall endorse its
approval or disapproval on the application, and thereafter the application,
necessary fee, and bond, if required, shall be forwarded to the Alcoholic
Beverages Division of the State Department of Commerce for such further action
as is provided by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32[2])
120.05   PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
A person holding a liquor license or retail wine or beer permit and the
person’s agents or employees shall not do any of the following:
1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic beverage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[1])
2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage on the premises covered by the
license or permit, or permit its consumption thereon between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on a weekday, and between the hours of 2:00 a.m. on Sunday
and 6:00 a.m. on the following Monday; however, a holder of a liquor control
license or retail wine or beer permit granted the privilege of selling
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer on Sunday may sell or dispense alcoholic
liquor, wine, or beer between the hours of 6:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. of
the following Monday, and further provided that a holder of any class of liquor
control license or the holder of a Class “B” beer permit may sell or dispense
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer for consumption on the premises between the
hours of 6:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on Monday when that Monday is New
Year’s Day and beer for consumption off the premises between the hours of 6:00
a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on the following Monday when that Sunday is the
day before New Year’s Day.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2b] and 123.150)
3.   Sell alcoholic beverages to any person on credit, except with a bona fide
credit card. This provision does not apply to sales by a club to its members,
to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests, or to retail sales
by the managing entity of a convention center, civic center, or events center.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2c])
4.   Employ a person under 18 years of age in the sale or serving of alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2f])
5.   In the case of a retail wine or beer permittee, knowingly allow the mixing
or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to wine, beer, or any other
beverage in or about the permittee’s place of business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2i])
6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license or permit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2a])
7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license or permit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2j])
8.   Keep on premises covered by a liquor control license any alcoholic liquor
in any container except the original package purchased from the Alcoholic
Beverages Division of the State Department of Commerce and except mixed drinks
or cocktails mixed on the premises for immediate consumption. However, mixed
drinks or cocktails that are mixed on the premises and are not for immediate
consumption may be consumed on the licensed premises, subject to rules adopted
by the Alcoholic Beverages Division.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2d])
9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or receptacle
used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or adulterate, by the
addition of any substance, the contents or remaining contents of an original
package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly possess any original
package that has been reused or adulterated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2e])
10.   Allow any person other than the licensee, permittee, or employees of the
licensee or permittee to use or keep on the licensed premises any alcoholic
liquor in any bottle or other container that is designed for the transporting
of such beverages, except as allowed by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2g])
11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine that is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a vaporized
form.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[21])
12.   Permit or allow any person under 21 years of age to remain upon licensed
premises unless over 50 percent of the dollar volume of the business
establishment comes from the sale and serving of prepared foods. This provision
does not apply to holders of a Class “C” beer permit only.
120.06   AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
The following provisions pertain to electrical or mechanical amusement devices
possessed and used in accordance with Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa. (Said
devices are allowed only in premises with a liquor control license or beer
permit, as specifically authorized in said Chapter 99B.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.57)
1.   As used in this section, “registered electrical or mechanical amusement
device” means an electrical or mechanical device required to be registered with
the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals, as provided in Section 99B.53 of
the Code of Iowa.
2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to participate in the
operation of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device.
3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing a registered electrical or
mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing a
registered electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 21 to participate in the operation of a registered
electrical or mechanical amusement device.
4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the operation of
a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under the
age of 21.
CHAPTER 121
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS
 
121.01 Definitions             121.06 Refunds
121.02 Permit Required         121.07 Persons Under Legal Age
121.03 Application             121.08 Self-Service Sales Prohibited
121.04 Fees                    121.09 Permit Revocation
121.05 Issuance and Expiration
 
121.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)
1.   “Alternative nicotine product” means a product, not consisting of or
containing tobacco, that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing, or
by any other means. “Alternative nicotine product” does not include cigarettes,
tobacco products, or vapor products, or a product that is regulated as a drug
or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of tobacco,
or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and irrespective
of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored, adulterated, or mixed
with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper or cover made of paper
or any other material. However, cigarette shall not be construed to include
cigars.
3.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are sold, stored, or kept for
the purpose of sale or consumption by a retailer.
4.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes, or offers for sale
for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for consumption,
cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products, irrespective of
the quantity or amount or the number of sales, or who engages in the business
of selling tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products to ultimate consumers.
5.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display, placement, or
storage from which a person purchasing the product may take possession of the
product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the retailer or employee of
the retailer, in removing the product from a restricted access location.
6.   “Tobacco products” means the following: cigars; little cigars; cheroots;
stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other
smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and other
chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and sweepings
of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such manner as to
be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or for both chewing
and smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.
7.   “Vapor product” means any noncombustible product, which may or may not
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic
circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of
shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other
substance. “Vapor product” includes an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any
cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which may or may
not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device. “Vapor product” does not include a product regulated as a
drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter
V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
121.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
1.   Retail Cigarette Permits. It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes, alternative nicotine products,
or vapor products at retail and no retailer shall distribute, sell, or solicit
the sale of any cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products
within the City without a valid permit for each place of business. The permit
shall, at all times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be
easily seen by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13)
2.   Retail Tobacco Permits. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products at any place of business without first having
received a permit as a retailer for each place of business owned or operated by
the retailer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A)
A retailer who holds a retail cigarette permit is not required to also obtain a
retail tobacco permit. However, if a retailer only holds a retail cigarette
permit and that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the retailer shall
not sell any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products, during such time.
121.03   APPLICATION.
A completed application on forms furnished by the State Department of Revenue
or on forms made available or approved by the Department and accompanied by the
required fee shall be filed with the Clerk. Renewal applications shall be filed
at least five days prior to the last regular meeting of the Council in June. If
a renewal application is not timely filed, and a special Council meeting is
called to act on the application, the costs of such special meeting shall be
paid by the applicant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.04   FEES.
The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be in an amount as time
to time fixed by the Council by resolution.    
(Ord. 621 – Aug. 23 Supp.)
121.05   ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.
Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, a permit shall be
issued. Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for
which it is issued and shall be nonassignable. All permits expire on June 30 of
each year. The Clerk shall submit a duplicate of any application for a permit
to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within 30
days of issuance of a permit.
121.06   REFUNDS.
A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.07   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
A person shall not sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes to any
person under 21 years of age. The provision of this section includes
prohibiting a person under 21 years of age from purchasing tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, and cigarettes from a
vending machine. If a retailer or employee of a retailer violates the
provisions of this section, the Council shall, after written notice and
hearing, and in addition to the other penalties fixed for such violation,
assess the following:
1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty in
the amount of $300.00. Failure to pay the civil penalty as ordered under this
subsection shall result in automatic suspension of the permit for a period of
14 days.
2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer shall be
assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 or the retailer’s permit
shall be suspended for a period of 30 days. The retailer may select its
preference in the penalty to be applied under this subsection.
3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 60 days.
5.   For a fifth violation within a period of four years, the retailer’s permit
shall be revoked.
The Clerk shall give 10 days’ written notice to the retailer by mailing a copy
of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the application for a
permit. The notice shall state the reason for the contemplated action and the
time and place at which the retailer may appear and be heard.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22 and 453A.36[6])
121.08   SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.
Except for the sale of cigarettes through a cigarette vending machine as
provided in Section 453A.36[6] of the Code of Iowa, a retailer shall not sell
or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, or cigarettes through the use of a self-service display.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)
121.09   PERMIT REVOCATION.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by the
Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or
any rule adopted thereunder. If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be
issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person
for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has
expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown
to the Council. The Clerk shall report the revocation or suspension of a retail
permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within
30 days of the revocation or suspension.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)
CHAPTER 122
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
122.01 Purpose                  122.10 Time Restriction
122.02 Definitions              122.11 Revocation of License
122.03 License Required         122.12 Hearing
122.04 Application for License  122.13 Record and Determination
122.05 License Fee              122.14 Appeal
122.06 Bond Required            122.15 Effect of Revocation
122.07 License Issued           122.16 License Exemptions
122.08 Display of License       122.17 Charitable and Nonprofit Organizations
122.09 License Not Transferable
 
122.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to protect residents of the City against fraud,
unfair competition, and intrusion into the privacy of their homes by licensing
and regulating peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants.
122.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Peddler” means any person carrying goods or merchandise who sells or
offers for sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise from house to
house or upon the public street.
2.   “Solicitor” means any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from
house to house or upon the public street any contribution or donation or any
order for goods, services, subscriptions, or merchandise to be delivered at a
future date.
3.   “Transient merchant” means any person who engages in a temporary or
itinerant merchandising business and in the course of such business hires,
leases, or occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who operates out
of a vehicle that is parked anywhere within the City limits. Temporary
association with a local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer, or conduct of
such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any
local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer does not exempt any person from
being considered a transient merchant.
122.03   LICENSE REQUIRED.
Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting, or in the business of a transient
merchant in the City without first obtaining a license as herein provided is in
violation of this chapter.
122.04   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
An application in writing shall be filed with the Clerk for a license under
this chapter. Such application shall set forth the applicant’s name, permanent
and local address, and business address if any. The application shall also set
forth the applicant’s employer, if any, and the employer’s address, the nature
of the applicant’s business, the last three places of such business, and the
length of time sought to be covered by the license. An application fee, as
established by resolution of the Council, shall be paid at the time of filing
such application to cover the cost of investigating the facts stated therein.
122.05   LICENSE FEE.
In addition to the application fee identified in Section
122.04 of this chapter, a license fee, as established by resolution of the
Council, shall be paid to the Clerk prior to the issuance of any license.
122.06   BOND REQUIRED.
Before a license under this chapter is issued to a transient merchant, an
applicant shall provide to the Clerk evidence that the applicant has filed a
bond with the Secretary of State in accordance with Chapter 9C of the Code of
Iowa.
122.07   LICENSE ISSUED.
If the Clerk finds the application is completed in conformance with the
requirements of this chapter, the facts stated therein are found to be correct,
and the license fee paid, a license shall be issued immediately.
122.08   DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
Each solicitor or peddler shall keep such license in possession at all times
while doing business in the City and shall, upon the request of prospective
customers, exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with all requirements
of this chapter. Each transient merchant shall display publicly such merchant’s
license in the merchant’s place of business.
122.09   LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application.
122.10   TIME RESTRICTION.
All peddler’s and solicitor’s licenses shall provide that said licenses are in
force and effect only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
122.11   REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the Clerk may
revoke any license issued pursuant to this chapter for the following reasons:
1.   Fraudulent Statements. The licensee has made fraudulent statements in the
application for the license or in the conduct of the business.
2.   Violation of Law. The licensee has violated this chapter or has otherwise
conducted the business in an unlawful manner.
3.   Endangered Public Welfare, Health, or Safety. The licensee has conducted
the business in such manner as to endanger the public welfare, safety, order,
or morals.
The Clerk shall send the written notice to the licensee at the licensee’s local
address. The notice shall contain particulars of the complaints against the
licensee, the ordinance provisions or State statutes allegedly violated, and
the date, time, and place for hearing on the matter.
122.12   HEARING.
The Clerk shall conduct a hearing at which both the licensee and any
complainants shall be present to determine the truth of the facts alleged in
the complaint and notice. Should the licensee, or authorized representative,
fail to appear without good cause, the Clerk may proceed to a determination of
the complaint.
122.13   RECORD AND DETERMINATION.
The Clerk shall make and record findings of fact and conclusions of law, and
shall revoke a license only when upon review of the entire record the Clerk
finds clear and convincing evidence of substantial violation of this chapter or
State law.
122.14   APPEAL.
If the Clerk revokes or refuses to issue a license, the Clerk shall make a part
of the record the reasons for such revocation or refusal. The licensee, or the
applicant, shall have a right to a hearing before the Council at its next
regular meeting. The Council may reverse, modify, or affirm the decision of the
Clerk by a majority vote of the Council members present and the Clerk shall
carry out the decision of the Council.
122.15   EFFECT OF REVOCATION.
Revocation of any license shall bar the licensee from being eligible for any
license under this chapter for a period of one year from the date of the
revocation.
122.16   LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
The following are excluded from the application of this chapter.
1.   Newspapers. Persons delivering, collecting for, or selling subscriptions
to newspapers.
2.   Club Members. Members of local civic and service clubs, Boy Scout, Girl
Scout, 4-H Clubs, Future Farmers of America, and similar organizations.
3.   Local Residents and Farmers. Local residents and farmers who offer for
sale their own products.
4.   Students. Students representing the Clarion-Goldfield Community School
District conducting projects sponsored by organizations recognized by the
school.
5.   Route Sales. Route delivery persons who only incidentally solicit
additional business or make special sales.
6.   Resale or Institutional Use. Persons customarily calling on businesses or
institutions for the purposes of selling products for resale or institutional
use.
7.   Minor Businesses. An on-site transactional business traditionally operated
exclusively by a person under the age of 18, operated on an occasional basis
for no more than 89 calendar days in a calendar year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[13])
122.17   CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
Authorized representatives of charitable or nonprofit organizations operating
under the provisions of Chapter 504 of the Code of Iowa desiring to solicit
money or to distribute literature are exempt from the operation of Sections
122.04 and
122.05. All such organizations are required to submit to the Clerk in writing
the name and purpose of the cause for which such activities are sought, names
and addresses of the officers and directors of the organization, the period
during which such activities are to be carried on, and whether any commissions,
fees, or wages are to be charged by the solicitor and the amount thereof. If
the Clerk finds that the organization is a bona fide charity or nonprofit
organization, the Clerk shall issue, free of charge, a license containing the
above information to the applicant. In the event the Clerk denies the
exemption, the authorized representatives of the organization may appeal the
decision to the Council, as provided in Section
122.14 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 123
HOUSE MOVERS
 
123.01 House Mover Defined 123.07 Public Safety
123.02 Permit Required     123.08 Time Limit
123.03 Application         123.09 Removal by City
123.04 Bond Required       123.10 Protect Pavement
123.05 Insurance Required  123.11 Overhead Wires
123.06 Permit Issued
 
123.01   HOUSE MOVER DEFINED.
A “house mover” means any person who undertakes to move a building or similar
structure upon, over or across public streets or property when the building or
structure is of such size that it requires the use of skids, jacks, dollies, or
any other specialized moving equipment.
123.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the activity of house mover as
herein defined without a valid permit from the City for each house, building,
or similar structure to be moved. Buildings of less than 100 square feet are
exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
123.03   APPLICATION.
Application for a house mover’s permit shall be made in writing to the Clerk on
a form provided by the City.. The application shall include:
1.   Name and Address. The applicant’s full name and address and, if a
corporation, the names and addresses of its principal officers.
2.   Building Location. An accurate description of the present location and
future site of the building or similar structure to be moved.
3.   Routing Plan. A routing plan approved by the Mayor, Public Works Director,
and public utility officials. The route approved shall be the shortest route
compatible with the greatest public convenience and safety.
123.04   BOND REQUIRED.
The applicant shall post with the Clerk a penal bond in the minimum sum of
$5,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue such bonds in the
State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for any damage done to
the City or to public property, and payment of all costs incurred by the City
in the course of moving the building or structure.
123.05   INSURANCE REQUIRED.
Each applicant shall also file a certificate of insurance indicating that the
applicant is carrying public liability insurance in effect for the duration of
the permit covering the applicant and all agents and employees for the
following minimum amounts:
1.   Bodily Injury – $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
2.   Property Damage – $50,000.00 per accident.
123.06   PERMIT ISSUED.
Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and insurance certificate, and
payment of the required building permit fee (if relocating within the City
limits), the Clerk shall issue a permit. A separate permit shall be required
for each house, building, or similar structure to be moved.
123.07   PUBLIC SAFETY.
At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon any street,
alley, sidewalk, or public property, the permittee shall maintain flag persons
at the closest intersections or other possible channels of traffic to the
sides, behind, and ahead of the building or structure. At all times when the
building or structure is at rest upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or public
property the permittee shall maintain adequate warning signs or lights at the
intersections or channels of traffic to the sides, behind, and ahead of the
building or structure.
123.08   TIME LIMIT.
No house mover shall permit or allow a building or similar structure to remain
upon any street or other public way for a period of more than 12 hours without
having first secured the written approval of the City.
123.09   REMOVAL BY CITY.
In the event any building or similar structure is found to be in violation of
Section
123.08, the City is authorized to remove such building or structure and assess
the costs thereof against the permit holder and the surety on the permit
holder’s bond.
123.10   PROTECT PAVEMENT.
It is unlawful to move any house or building of any kind over any pavement,
unless the wheels or rollers upon which the house or building is moved are at
least one inch in width for each 1,000 pounds of weight of such building. If
there is any question as to the weight of a house or building, the estimate of
the City as to such weight shall be final.
123.11   OVERHEAD WIRES.
The holder of any permit to move a building shall see that all telephone, cable
television, and electric wires and poles are removed when necessary and
replaced in good order, and shall be liable for the costs of the same.
CHAPTER 124
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES
 
124.01 Definitions 124.03 Establishment of Adult Entertainment Business
124.02 Location    124.04 Violation
 
124.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter:
1.   “Adult amusement or entertainment” means an amusement or entertainment
which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on acts or material
depicting, describing, or relating to sex acts or specified anatomical areas,
as defined herein, including (but not limited to) topless or bottomless
dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators, or similar
entertainment.
2.   “Adult entertainment businesses” include the following:
   A.   “Adult bookstore” means an establishment having as a significant
portion of its stock in trade books, films, magazines, and other periodicals or
goods and items held for sale which are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matter depicting or describing sex acts or specified anatomical
areas.
   B.   “Adult hotel or motel” means a building with accommodations used for
the temporary occupancy of one or more individuals and is an establishment
wherein material is presented which is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on depicting or describing sex acts or specified anatomical areas for
observation by the individuals therein.
   C.   “Adult motion picture arcade” means any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin- or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors, or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to
five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting
or describing sex acts or specified anatomical areas.
   D.   “Adult motion picture theater” means an enclosed building used for
presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting or describing sex acts or specified anatomical areas.
   E.   “Adult photo studio” means an establishment which, upon payment of a
fee, provides photographic equipment and/or models for the purpose of
photographing specified anatomical areas or sex acts, as defined herein.
   F.   “Massage parlor” means any building, room, place, or establishment
where manipulated massage or manipulated exercise is practiced for pay upon the
human body with an emphasis on sex acts or specified anatomical areas, by
anyone not a duly licensed physician, osteopath, chiropractor, registered
nurse, or practical nurse operating under a physician’s direction, physical
therapist, registered speech pathologist and physical or occupational therapist
who treat only patients recommended by a licensed physician and operating only
under such physician’s direction, whether with or without the use of
mechanical, therapeutic, or bathing devices. The term does not include a
regular licensed hospital, medical clinic, or nursing home, duly licensed
beauty parlors, or barber shops.
   G.   “Sexual encounter center” means any business, agency, or person who,
for any form of consideration or gratuity, provides a place where three or more
persons may congregate, assemble, or associate for the purpose of engaging in
sex acts or exposing specified anatomical areas.
3.   “Sex acts” means any sexual contact, actual or simulated, either natural
or deviate, between two or more persons, or between a person and an animal, by
penetration of the penis into the vagina or anus, or by contact between the
mouth or tongue and genitalia or anus, or by contact between a finger of one
person and the genitalia of another, or by use of artificial sexual organs or
substitute therefor in contact with the genitalia or anus.
4.   “Specified anatomical areas” include the following: human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, and female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
124.02   LOCATION.
No adult entertainment business, as defined herein, shall be established within
1,000 feet of another business, school, church, public park, public playground,
public plaza, day nursery, daycare center, nursery school, regularly scheduled
school bus stop, or any dwelling (one-family, two-family or multiple-family).
124.03   ESTABLISHMENT OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS.† 7  
The establishment of an adult entertainment business shall include the opening
of such business as a new business, the relocation of such business, or the
conversion of an existing business location to any of the uses described as an
adult entertainment business.
1.   The measurement of the 1,000 foot restriction shall be taken on a direct
line from the property line of such adult entertainment business to the point
on the property line of another business, school, church, public park, public
playground, public plaza, day nurseries, day care center, nursery school,
regularly scheduled school bus stop, or any dwelling (one-family, two-family or
multiple-family dwelling).
2.   All buildings used for adult entertainment business shall have openings,
entries, windows, etc., constructed, located, covered, or screened in such a
manner as to prevent a view into the interior of such building from any
pedestrian sidewalk, walkway, street, or other public or semi-public area.
Advertisements, displays, or other promotional materials shall not be shown or
exhibited so as to be visible to the public from the pedestrian sidewalks,
walkways, or other public or semi-public area.
3.   No alcohol shall be permitted in any adult entertainment business, unless
specifically authorized by Iowa Law. This prohibition applies equally to the
proprietor and the patrons of the adult entertainment business.
4.   No minor (any person under 18 years of age) shall be permitted in any
adult entertainment business.
 
Notes
7 † EDITOR’S NOTE: See also Section
  165.15 of this Code of Ordinances.
124.04   VIOLATION.
A violation of this chapter shall result in those penalties applicable to a
municipal infraction pursuant to
Chapter 4 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 125
HOTEL/MOTEL TAX
 
125.01 Imposition of Tax 125.03 Effective Date of Chapter and Tax Imposition
125.02 Use of Funds
 
125.01   IMPOSITION OF TAX.
A tax of seven percent shall be and same is hereby imposed upon the gross
receipts from the renting of sleeping quarters in a hotel, motel, inn, public
lodging house, rooming house, mobile home which is tangible personal property,
or tourist court, or in any place where sleeping accommodations are furnished
to transient guests for rent, with or without meals, except for sleeping rooms
provided for guests of a religious institution if the property is exempt under
Section 427.1(8) of the Code of Iowa, and the purpose of renting is to provide
a place for a religious retreat or function and not a place for transient
guests generally. This tax shall only apply within the corporate boundaries of
the City.
125.02   USE OF FUNDS.
Revenues derived from this tax shall be used as follows:
1.   75 percent thereof shall be expended for the promotion and encouragement
of tourist and convention business in the City.
2.   25 percent thereof shall be expended for Park and Recreation capital
projects within the City. Capital projects are defined as projects involving
the acquisition or construction of fixed assets, which are of a long-term
character and intended for long-term use such as land, buildings, machinery,
furniture, and other equipment.
The City will have the final authority on the disbursement of funds from the
Board’s proposal.
125.03   EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHAPTER AND TAX IMPOSITION.
This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after the final
passage, approval, and publication of Ordinance No. 538, codified by this
chapter, as required by law, and upon ratification by a majority of the
eligible electors for the City, voting on the question of imposition as
provided by Section 422A.1 of the Code of Iowa. The tax shall be imposed
beginning on the first day of January, 2012, following the required notice of
at least 45 days to the Director of Revenue and Finance as provided by Section
422A.1 of the Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 135
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE
 
135.01 Removal of Warning Devices 135.08 Burning Prohibited
135.02 Obstructing or Defacing    135.09 Excavations
135.03 Placing Debris On          135.10 Property Owner’s Responsibility for
                                  Maintenance
135.04 Playing In                 135.11 Failure to Maintain
135.05 Traveling On Barricaded    135.12 Dumping of Snow
Street or Alley
135.06 Use for Business Purposes  135.13 Driveway Culverts
135.07 Washing Vehicles
 
135.01   REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.
It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy, or carry
away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard, or other article or
things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected or placed thereupon for
the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places in said street
or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.02   OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.
It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface or injure any street or alley
in any manner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.03   PLACING DEBRIS ON.
It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or alley any
glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter,
offal, leaves, grass, or any other debris likely to be washed into the storm
sewer and clog the storm sewer, or any substance likely to injure any person,
animal, or vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)
135.04   PLAYING IN.
It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled, or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.05   TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.
It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street or
alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed thereon
by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer, or member
of the Fire Department.
135.06   USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
It is unlawful to park, store or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale, or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Council.
135.07   WASHING VEHICLES.
It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street, or alley for
the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or any
vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business. This does
not prevent any person from washing or cleaning his or her own vehicle or
equipment when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.
135.08   BURNING PROHIBITED.
No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or other combustible material
in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.
135.09   EXCAVATIONS.
No person shall dig, excavate, or in any manner disturb any street, parking, or
alley except in accordance with the following:
1.   Permit Required. No excavation shall be commenced without first obtaining
a permit. A written application for such permit shall be filed with the City
and shall contain the following:
   A.   An exact description of the property, by lot and street number, in
front of or along which it is desired to excavate;
   B.   A statement of the purpose, for whom and by whom the excavation is to
be made;
   C.   The person responsible for the refilling of said excavation and
restoration of the street or alley surface; and
   D.   Date of commencement of the work and estimated completion date.
2.   Public Convenience. Streets and alleys shall be opened in the manner that
will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the uninterrupted
passage of water along the gutter on the street.
3.   Barricades, Fencing, and Lighting. Adequate barricades, fencing, and
warning lights meeting standards specified by the City shall be so placed as to
protect the public from hazard. Any costs incurred by the City in providing or
maintaining adequate barricades, fencing, or warning lights shall be paid to
the City by the permit holder/property owner.
4.   Bond Required. The applicant shall post with the City a penal bond in the
minimum sum of $1,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue such
bonds in the State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for any
damage done to the City or to public property, and payment of all costs
incurred by the City in the course of administration of this section. In lieu
of a surety bond, a cash deposit of $1,000.00 may be filed with the City.
5.   Insurance Required. Each applicant shall also file a certificate of
insurance indicating that the applicant is carrying public liability insurance
in effect for the duration of the permit covering the applicant and all agents
and employees for the following minimum amounts:
   A.   Bodily Injury - $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
   B.   Property Damage - $50,000.00 per accident.
6.   Restoration of Public Property. Streets, sidewalks, alleys, and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to the
condition of the property prior to the commencement of the work, or in a manner
satisfactory to the City, at the expense of the permit holder/property owner.
7.   Inspection. All work shall be subject to inspection by the City. Backfill
shall not be deemed completed, and no resurfacing of any improved street or
alley surface shall begin, until such backfill is inspected and approved by the
City. The permit holder/property owner shall provide the City with notice at
least 24 hours prior to the time when inspection of backfill is desired.
8.   Completion by the City. Should any excavation in any street or alley be
discontinued or left open and unfinished for a period of 24 hours after the
approved completion date, or in the event the work is improperly done, the City
has the right to finish or correct the excavation work and charge any expenses
for such work to the permit holder/property owner.
9.   Responsibility for Costs. All costs and expenses incident to the
excavation shall be borne by the permit holder and/or property owner. The
permit holder and owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by such excavation.
10.   Notification. At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
excavation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, the person
performing the excavation shall contact the Statewide Notification Center and
provide the center with the information required under Section 480.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
11.   Permit Issued. Upon approval of the application and filing of bond and
insurance certificate, a permit shall be issued. A separate permit shall be
required for each excavation.
135.10   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain all property outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines upon public streets and shall keep
such area in a safe condition, free from nuisances, obstructions, and hazards.
In the absence of a curb, such property shall extend from the property line to
that portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner shall not be required to remove diseased trees or dead
wood on the publicly owned property or right-of-way. Maintenance includes, but
is not limited to, timely mowing, trimming trees and shrubs, and picking up
litter and debris. The abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused
by failure to maintain the publicly owned property or right-of-way.† 8
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: See also Section
8 136.04 relating to property owner’s responsibility for maintenance of
  sidewalks.
135.11   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within a reasonable time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e])
135.12   DUMPING OF SNOW.
It is unlawful for any person to throw, push, or place or cause to be thrown,
pushed or placed, any ice or snow from private property, sidewalks, or
driveways onto the traveled way of a street or alley so as to obstruct gutters,
or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or alley or to create a
hazardous condition therein; except where, in the cleaning of large commercial
drives in the Business District it is absolutely necessary to move the snow
onto the street or alley temporarily, such accumulation shall be removed
promptly by the property owner or agent. Arrangements for the prompt removal of
such accumulations shall be made prior to moving the snow.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.13   DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.
The property owner shall, at the owner’s expense, install any culvert deemed
necessary under any driveway or any other access to the owner’s property, and
before installing a culvert, permission must first be obtained from the City.
In the event repairs are needed at any time with respect to culverts, it shall
be the responsibility of the property owner to make such repairs, and, in the
event the owner fails to do so, the City shall have the right to make the
repairs. If the property owner fails to reimburse the City for the cost of said
repairs, the cost shall be certified to the County Treasurer and specially
assessed against the property as by law provided.
CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
136.01 Purpose                               136.10 Failure to Repair or
                                             Barricade
136.02 Definitions                           136.11 Interference with Sidewalk
                                             Improvements
136.03 Removal of Snow, Ice, and             136.12 Encroaching Steps
Accumulations
136.04 Property Owner’s Responsibility for 136.13 Openings and Enclosures
Maintenance
136.05 City May Order Repairs                136.14 Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
136.06 Sidewalk Construction Ordered         136.15 Defacing
136.07 Permit Required                       136.16 Debris on Sidewalks
136.08 Sidewalk Standards                    136.17 Merchandise Display
136.09 Barricades and Warning Lights         136.18 Sales Stands
 
136.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner
and to minimize the liability of the City.
136.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Broom finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping the
sidewalk when it is hardening.
2.   “Established grade” means that grade established by the City for the
particular area in which a sidewalk is to be constructed.
3.   “One-course construction” means that the full thickness of the concrete is
placed at one time, using the same mixture throughout.
4.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property abutting any
sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of notification
required herein. For all other purposes, “owner” includes the lessee, if any.
5.   “Portland cement” means any type of cement except bituminous cement.
6.   “Sidewalk” means all permanent public walks in business, residential or
suburban areas.
7.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction, repair,
replacement, or removal of a public sidewalk and/or the excavating, filling, or
depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection therewith.
8.   “Wood float finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by smoothing the
surface of the sidewalk with a wooden trowel.
136.03   REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, AND ACCUMULATIONS.
The abutting property owner shall remove snow, ice, and accumulations promptly
from sidewalks. If a property owner does not remove snow, ice, or accumulations
within 48 hours, the City may do so and assess the costs against the property
owner for collection in the same manner as a property tax. The abutting
property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to remove snow, ice,
and accumulations promptly from the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2b and e])
136.04   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain in a safe and hazard-free condition
any sidewalk outside the lot and property lines and inside the curb lines or,
in the absence of a curb, any sidewalk between the property line and that
portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to maintain
the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
136.05   CITY MAY ORDER REPAIRS.
If the abutting property owner does not maintain sidewalks as required, the
Council may serve notice on such owner, by certified mail, requiring the owner
to repair, replace or reconstruct sidewalks within a reasonable time and if
such action is not completed within the time stated in the notice, the Council
may require the work to be done and assess the costs against the abutting
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2d and e])
136.06   SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDERED.
The Council may order the construction of permanent sidewalks upon any street
or court in the City and may specially assess the cost of such improvement to
abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 384 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)
136.07   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall remove, reconstruct, or install a sidewalk unless such person
has obtained a permit from the City and has agreed in writing that said
removal, reconstruction, or installation will comply with all ordinances and
requirements of the City for such work.
136.08   SIDEWALK STANDARDS.
Sidewalks repaired, replaced, or constructed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be of the following construction and meet the following
standards:
1.   Cement. Portland cement shall be the only cement used in the construction
and repair of sidewalks.
2.   Construction. Sidewalks shall be of one-course construction.
3.   Sidewalk Base. Concrete may be placed directly on compact and well-drained
soil. Where soil is not well drained, a three-inch sub-base of compact, clean,
coarse gravel, or sand shall be laid. The adequacy of the soil drainage is to
be determined by the City.
4.   Sidewalk Bed. The sidewalk bed shall be so graded that the constructed
sidewalk will be at established grade.
5.   Length, Width, and Depth. Length, width, and depth requirements are as
follows:
   A.   Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide and four inches
thick, and each section shall be no more than four feet in length.
   B.   Business District sidewalks shall extend from the property line to the
curb. Each section shall be four inches thick and no more than six feet in
length.
   C.   Driveway areas shall be not less than six inches in thickness.
6.   Location. Residential sidewalks shall be located with the inner edge (edge
nearest the abutting private property) on the property line, unless the Council
establishes a different distance due to special circumstances.
7.   Grade. Curb tops shall be on level with the centerline of the street,
which is the established grade.
8.   Elevations. The street edge of a sidewalk shall be at an elevation even
with the curb at the curb or not less than one-half inch above the curb for
each foot between the curb and the sidewalk.
9.   Slope. All sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch per foot toward the curb.
10.   Finish. All sidewalks shall be finished with a broom finish or wood float
finish.
11.   Curb Ramps and Sloped Areas for Persons with Disabilities. If a street,
road, or highway is newly built or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area
shall be constructed or installed at each intersection of the street, road, or
highway with a sidewalk or path. If a sidewalk or path is newly built or
reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area shall be constructed or installed at
each intersection of the sidewalk or path with a street, highway, or road. Curb
ramps and sloped areas that are required pursuant to this subsection shall be
constructed or installed in compliance with applicable federal requirements
adopted in accordance with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act,
including (but not limited to) the guidelines issued by the Federal
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 216C.9)
136.09   BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue, highway,
passageway or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or when any
sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places at
each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material deposited in
the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or flares, and to
keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect sufficient barricades
both at night and in the daytime to secure the same. The party or parties using
the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter shall be liable
for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any wrongful act
or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or employees or for any
misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of any failure to comply
with provisions hereof.
136.10   FAILURE TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.
It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk, or the
owner’s contractor or agent, to notify the City immediately in the event of
failure or inability to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect necessary barricades as required by this chapter.
136.11   INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or upon
any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove or
destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove,
destroy, mar, or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy, mar, remove, or
deface any notice provided by this chapter.
136.12   ENCROACHING STEPS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of the
Council.
136.13   OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.
It is unlawful for a person to:
1.   Stairs and Railings. Construct or build a stairway or passageway to any
cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose any
portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of the
Council.
2.   Openings. Keep open any cellar door, grating, or cover to any vault on any
sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect the public.
3.   Protect Openings. Neglect to properly protect or barricade all openings on
or within six feet of any sidewalk.
136.14   FIRES OR FUEL ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.
136.15   DEFACING.
It is unlawful for a person to scatter or place any paste, paint, or writing on
any sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
136.16   DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal,
or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
136.17   MERCHANDISE DISPLAY.
It is unlawful for a person to place upon or above any sidewalk, any goods or
merchandise for sale or for display in such a manner as to interfere with the
free and uninterrupted passage of pedestrians on the sidewalk; in no case shall
more than three feet of the sidewalk next to the building be occupied for such
purposes.
136.18   SALES STANDS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or keep any vending machine or stand for
the sale of fruit, vegetables or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.
CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS
 
137.01 Power to Vacate                137.04 Findings Required
137.02 Planning and Zoning Commission 137.05 Disposal of Vacated Streets or
                                      Alleys
137.03 Notice of Vacation Hearing     137.06 Disposal by Gift Limited
 
137.01   POWER TO VACATE.
When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of the
City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2a])
137.02   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
Any proposal to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds
shall be referred by the Council to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its
study and recommendation prior to further consideration by the Council. The
Commission shall submit a written report including recommendations to the
Council within 30 days after the date the proposed vacation is referred to the
Commission.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
137.03   NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.
The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the time
at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.
137.04   FINDINGS REQUIRED.
No street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:
1.   Public Use. The street, alley, portion thereof, or any public ground
proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and therefore,
its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified.
2.   Abutting Property. The proposed vacation will not deny owners of property
abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.
137.05   DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.
When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public ground,
the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 364.7, Code
of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)
137.06   DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.
The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental body
for a public purpose or to a fair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 174.15[2] and 364.7[3])
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED            ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
76            November 5, 1935   590           January 15, 2019
91            August 5, 1946     591           March 19, 2019
94            July 21, 1947
104           April 19, 1948
115           January 23, 1950
123           March 6, 1951
144           October 1, 1953
150           June 15, 1954
151           June 15, 1954
159           August 2, 1955
161           September 20, 1955
162A          May 20, 1958
164           May 20, 1958
165           May 20, 1958
167           November 17, 1959
168           November 17, 1959
175           June 20, 1961
186           October 5, 1964
201           October 7, 1968
202           December 16, 1968
204           April 7, 1969
213           June 21, 1971
223           December 6, 1971
255           April 19, 1976
261           August 2, 1976
267           March 21, 1977
271           October 3, 1977
274           December 19, 1977
275           December 19, 1977
276           December 19, 1977
279           December 4, 1978
288           November 19, 1979
425           May 20, 2002
502           January 15, 2007
503           January 15, 2007
509           August 6, 2007
530           January 17, 2011
531           March 22, 2011
577           June 19, 2017
 
CHAPTER 138
STREET GRADES
 
138.01 Purpose and Definition 138.03 Record Maintained
138.02 Established Grades
 
138.01   PURPOSE AND DEFINITION.
This chapter is designed to meet the requirements of the Code of Iowa for the
establishment of street grades. As used herein, “grade” means the longitudinal
reference lines, as established by ordinance of the Council, which designate
the elevation at which a street or sidewalk is to be built.
138.02   ESTABLISHED GRADES.
The grades of all streets, alleys, and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance, are hereby confirmed, ratified, and established as
official grades.
138.03   RECORD MAINTAINED.
The Clerk shall maintain a record of all established grades and furnish
information concerning such grades upon request.
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED            ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
153           September 15, 1954
154           October 19, 1954
171           June 21, 1960
231           August 7, 1972
281           September 6, 1979
317           July 15, 1985
372           August 1, 1994
390           May 6, 1996
400-A         November 3, 1997
415           May 11, 2000
419           April 10, 2001
427           August 5, 2002
433           December 15, 2003
501           December 11, 2006
 
CHAPTER 139
NAMING OF STREETS
 
139.01 Naming New Streets      139.04 Official Street Name Map
139.02 Changing Name of Street 139.05 Revision of Street Name Map
139.03 Recording Street Names
 
139.01   NAMING NEW STREETS.
New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
1.   Extension of Existing Street. Streets added to the City that are natural
extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the existing
street.
2.   Resolution. All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by resolution.
3.   Planning and Zoning Commission. Proposed street names shall be referred to
the Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation.
139.02   CHANGING NAME OF STREET.
The Council may, by resolution, change the name of a street.
139.03   RECORDING STREET NAMES.
Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the Clerk
shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County Auditor and County
Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)
139.04   OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map,
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: “This is to certify
that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in Section
139.04 of the Code of Ordinances of Clarion, Iowa.”
139.05   REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.
If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the change has been approved by the Council with an entry on the
Official Street Name Map as follows: “On (date), by official action of the City
Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map:
(brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the Clerk.
CHAPTER 140
CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES
 
140.01 Exercise of Police Power 140.04 Access Controls Imposed
140.02 Definition               140.05 Designated Access Points
140.03 Right of Access Limited  140.06 Parking Restricted
 
140.01   EXERCISE OF POLICE POWER.
This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the City under
Chapter 306A, Code of Iowa, for the preservation of the public peace, health,
and safety and for the promotion of the general welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.1)
140.02   DEFINITION.
The term “controlled access facility” means a highway or street especially
designed for through traffic, and over, from or to which owners or occupants of
abutting land or other persons have no right or easement or only a controlled
right or easement of access, light, air, or view by reason of the fact that
their property abuts upon such controlled access facility or for any other
reason.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.2)
140.03   RIGHT OF ACCESS LIMITED.
No person has any right of ingress or egress to or from abutting lands onto or
across any controlled access facility, except at such designated points at
which access is permitted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.4)
140.04   ACCESS CONTROLS IMPOSED.
There are hereby fixed and established controlled access facilities within the
City, described as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.3)
1.   Project No. F29(10). On the Primary Road System extension improvement,
Project No. F29(10), Primary Road No. 3, within the City, described as follows:
Commencing at the west corporate limit, thence easterly on Central Avenue to
Station 767+44.2 (the east corporate limit)
regulating access to and from abutting properties along said highway all in
accordance with the plans for such improvement identified as Project No. F29
(10), on file in the office of the Clerk.
140.05   DESIGNATED ACCESS POINTS.
The following is a list of drives and entrances ordained to be properly
available for access under the improvement specified as Project No. F29(10):
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.4)
STATION SIDE OF STREET WIDTH USE OF DRIVE OR ENTRANCE
STATION SIDE OF STREET WIDTH   USE OF DRIVE OR ENTRANCE
704+31  right (south)  20 feet residential
708+35  left           25 feet commercial
709+73  right          32 feet commercial
710+00  left           14 feet commercial
710+32  left           28 feet commercial and residential
710+46  right          18 feet residential
711+66  left           19 feet residential
712+36  left           35 feet commercial
714+57  left           44 feet commercial
716+17  right          35 feet commercial
718+22  right          34 feet commercial
724+47  right          34 feet commercial
724+38  right          12 feet residential
724+73  left           17 feet residential
726+20  left           17 feet residential
727+10  left           35 feet commercial
728+17  right          18 feet residential
729+31  left           15 feet residential
729+41  right          17 feet residential
731+32  right          13 feet residential
732+12  left           19 feet residential
732+30  left           18 feet residential
732+31  right          16 feet residential
733+44  right          17 feet residential
733+48  left           18 feet residential
735+61  left           34 feet residential and commercial
735+99  right          18 feet commercial
736+38  right          34 feet commercial
736+46  left           35 feet commercial
737+26  left           34 feet commercial
737+30  right          34 feet commercial
738+94  right          18 feet residential
739+01  left           18 feet residential
739+55  left           17 feet residential
741+98  left           35 feet commercial
741+66  right          18 feet residential
742+79  left           29 feet joint residential
745+47  left           16 feet residential
745+62  right          17 feet residential
746+56  right          16 feet residential
746+64  left           18 feet residential
746+95  left           35 feet commercial
748+34  right          34 feet commercial
748+89  right          33 feet commercial
749+50  left           18 feet residential
749+85  right          24 feet commercial
750+69  right          18 feet residential
751+50  right          18 feet residential
752+15  right          17 feet residential
752+64  right          34 feet commercial
753+28  left           17 feet residential
754+96  left           45 feet commercial
755+62  right          23 feet commercial
756+00  left           16 feet residential
756+50  left           33 feet commercial
756+94  right          35 feet commercial
757+74  right          24 feet commercial
758+45  left           38 feet commercial
758+48  left           29 feet commercial
758+76  right          23 feet commercial
759+27  left           43 feet commercial
761+70  left           22 feet commercial
762+78  left           23 feet commercial
762+56  right          23 feet commercial
762+82  left           17 feet residential
763+89  left           23 feet joint residential
764+77  left           24 feet joint residential
765+00  right          35 feet commercial
766+53  left           17 feet residential
 
140.06   PARKING RESTRICTED.
All parking of any nature is prohibited on those parts of Primary State Highway
No. 3 described as follows:
1.   From Station 704+00 to Station 721+10 on both sides.
2.   From Station 723+00 to Station 767+44 (east corporate limit), on both
sides.
All parking of any nature is prohibited for a distance of 35 feet back of
sidewalk lines of intersecting street approaches.
CHAPTER 145
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
 
145.01 Enforcement Officer          145.05 Conduct of Hearing
145.02 General Definition of Unsafe 145.06 Posting of Signs
145.03 Unsafe Building              145.07 Right to Demolish; Municipal
                                    Infraction
145.04 Notice to Owner              145.08 Costs
 
145.01   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
The Mayor is responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
145.02   GENERAL DEFINITION OF UNSAFE.
All buildings or structures that are structurally unsafe or not provided with
adequate egress, or that constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous
to human life, or that in relation to existing use constitute a hazard to
safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment, are, for the purpose of this
chapter, unsafe buildings. All such unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be
public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or
removal in accordance with the procedure specified in this chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657A.1 and 364.12[3a])
145.03   UNSAFE BUILDING.
“Unsafe building” means any structure or mobile home meeting any or all of the
following criteria:
1.   Various Inadequacies. Whenever the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, because of: (i) dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; (ii) faulty
construction; (iii) the removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building; (iv) the
deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or (v) any other cause,
is likely to partially or completely collapse.
2.   Manifestly Unsafe. Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or
any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used.
3.   Inadequate Maintenance. Whenever a building or structure, used or intended
to be used for dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay, damage,
faulty construction, or otherwise, is determined by any health officer to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such condition that it is likely
to cause sickness or disease.
4.   Fire Hazard. Whenever any building or structure, because of dilapidated
condition, deterioration, damage, or other cause, is determined by the Fire
Marshal or Fire Chief to be a fire hazard.
5.   Abandoned. Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
145.04   NOTICE TO OWNER.
The enforcement officer shall examine or cause to be examined every building or
structure or portion thereof reported as dangerous or damaged and, if such is
found to be an unsafe building as defined in this chapter, the enforcement
officer shall give to the owner of such building or structure written notice
stating the defects thereof. This notice may require the owner or person in
charge of the building or premises, within 48 hours or such reasonable time as
the circumstances require, to commence either the required repairs or
improvements or demolition and removal of the building or structure or portions
thereof, and all such work shall be completed within 90 days from date of
notice, unless otherwise stipulated by the enforcement officer. If necessary,
such notice shall also require the building, structure, or portion thereof to
be vacated forthwith and not reoccupied until the required repairs and
improvements are completed, inspected, and approved by the enforcement officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
1.   Notice Served. Such notice shall be served by sending by certified mail to
the owner of record, according to Section 364.12[3h] of the Code of Iowa, if
the owner is found within the City limits. If the owner is not found within the
City limits, such service may be made upon the owner by registered mail or
certified mail. The designated period within which said owner or person in
charge is required to comply with the order of the enforcement officer shall
begin as of the date the owner receives such notice.
2.   Hearing. Such notice shall also advise the owner that he or she may
request a hearing before the Council on the notice by filing a written request
for hearing within the time provided in the notice.
145.05   CONDUCT OF HEARING.
If requested, the Council shall conduct a hearing in accordance with the
following:
1.   Notice. The owner shall be served with written notice specifying the date,
time and place of hearing.
2.   Owner’s Rights. At the hearing, the owner may appear and show cause why
the alleged nuisance shall not be abated.
3.   Determination. The Council shall make and record findings of fact and may
issue such order as it deems appropriate.† 9
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Suggested forms of notice and of a resolution and order of the
  Council for the administration of this chapter are provided in the APPENDIX to
9 this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use of this procedure. We
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before initiating
  procedures and follow his or her recommendation carefully.
145.06   POSTING OF SIGNS.
The enforcement officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
building a notice to read: “DO NOT ENTER. UNSAFE TO OCCUPY. CITY OF CLARION,
IOWA.” Such notice shall remain posted until the required demolition, removal
or repairs are completed. Such notice shall not be removed without written
permission of the enforcement officer and no person shall enter the building
except for the purpose of making the required repairs or of demolishing the
building.
145.07   RIGHT TO DEMOLISH; MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
In case the owner fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with the notice to
repair, rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove the building or structure or
portion thereof, the Council may order the owner of the building prosecuted as
a violator of the provisions of this chapter and may order the enforcement
officer to proceed with the work specified in such notice. A statement of the
cost of such work shall be transmitted to the Council. As an alternative to
this action, the City may utilize the municipal infraction process to abate the
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
145.08   COSTS.
Costs incurred under Section
145.07 shall be paid out of the City treasury. Such costs shall be charged to
the owner of the premises involved and levied as a special assessment against
the land on which the building or structure is located, and shall be certified
to the County Treasurer for collection in the manner provided for other taxes.
In addition, the City may take any other action deemed appropriate to recover
costs incurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
CHAPTER 146
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
 
146.01 Policy and Purpose             146.08 Hearing and Revocation
146.02 Definitions                    146.09 Master Plan
146.03 Placement of Mobile Homes      146.10 Standards for Mobile Homes
146.04 Use of Recreational Vehicles   146.11 Skirting
146.05 Vehicles and Equipment Outside 146.12 Refuse Disposal
146.06 Permit                         146.13 Management
146.07 Enforcement                    146.14 Subdivision
 
146.01   POLICY AND PURPOSE.
In order to promote and protect the health, safety and general welfare of the
residents of the City, it is hereby declared to be the policy of the City to
strictly regulate the presence and use of mobile homes, recreational vehicles
and similar relocatable dwellings so that their presence and use shall not
devalue surrounding permanent residences or be unsightly to their neighborhood
or to the City as a whole and to ensure that the occupants of mobile homes will
have safe, sanitary and modern living facilities, and it is the purpose of this
chapter to provide rules and regulations and penalties to implement such
policy.
146.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Accessory use” means a use incidental to the primary use of a mobile home
park, such as a direct service facility building, park management building,
maintenance building, community building or other use of a similar nature.
2.   “Agricultural equipment” means a vehicle or special mobile equipment
manufactured, designed or reconstructed for agricultural purposes and further
designed to permit use on the roadway, except for incidental uses, exclusively
used in the conduct of agricultural operations.
3.   “Appurtenance” means any attached or detached addition to a mobile home,
situated on the mobile home lot for the use of its occupants, such as a
carport, garage, porch, entry or lawn building.
4.   “Board” means the Board of Adjustment created under the provisions of the
Zoning Ordinance.
5.   “Commission” means the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City.
6.   “Common area” means any area or space designed for joint use of tenants
occupying mobile home parks.
7.   “Developer” means any person developing or proposing to develop a tract of
land so as to constitute a mobile home park and including any agent of the
developer.
8.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built structure, built under the
authority of 42 U.S.C. Sec. 5403, which was constructed on or after June 15,
1976, and is required by federal law to display a seal from the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
9.   “Mobile home” means any vehicle without motive power used or so
manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
the public streets and highways and so designed, constructed or reconstructed
as will permit the vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or
more persons; but also includes any such vehicle with motive power not
registered as a motor vehicle in Iowa. A mobile home means any such vehicle
built before June 15, 1976, which was not built to a mandatory building code
and which contains no State or Federal seals.
10.   “Mobile home lot” means a parcel of land for placement of a single mobile
home and the exclusive use of its occupants.
11.   “Mobile home park” means any site, lot, field or tract of land upon which
three or more mobile homes or manufactured homes, or a combination of any of
these homes, are placed on developed spaces and operated as a for-profit
enterprise with water, sewer or septic, and electrical services available. The
term “mobile home park” is not to be construed to include mobile homes,
buildings, tents or other structures temporarily maintained by any individual,
educational institution or company on their own premises and used exclusively
to house their own labor or students. The mobile home park shall meet the
requirements of any zoning regulations that are in effect.
12.   “Mobile home stand” means that part of a mobile home lot which has been
reserved for placement of a mobile home and any appurtenances thereto.
13.   “Motor home” means a self-propelled vehicle designed and constructed for
recreational habitation.
14.   “Recreational vehicle” means any vehicle designed for recreational
habitation, whether self-propelled, towable or mountable, including a motor
home, travel trailer, pickup camper and foldout camper, but not including a
mobile home.
15.   “Skirting” means the materials and construction around the perimeter of a
mobile home between the bottom of the finished side and the grade level of the
mobile home stand.
16.   “Travel trailer” means a towed structure on a chassis designed to be used
for recreational habitation.
17.   “Zoning Officer” means the Zoning Administrative Officer referred to in
the Zoning Ordinance.
146.03   PLACEMENT OF MOBILE HOMES.
1.   It is unlawful to place, locate, occupy or otherwise use a mobile home
within the corporate limits of the City except as follows:
   A.   In a mobile home sales lot for display, sale, repair or use as a sales
office, but not for use as a residence.
   B.   In a mobile home park established and operated in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
2.   A manufactured home may be located outside of a mobile home park, provided
the manufactured home is converted to real estate under the provisions of
Section 435.26 of the Code of Iowa and meets the minimum front, rear and side
yard requirements and all other area, yard and location requirements of a site-
built home on the lot in its residential or other permitted zone. Such
manufactured home shall be placed on a permanent full foundation of solid
concrete blocks set in mortar, on a poured concrete foundation or a pier
footing foundation. The footings shall be at least below the frost line and 12
inches below the top of undisturbed earth unless piling is required, in
accordance with the Building Code of the City. If there is no provision in such
Code, the frost line shall be deemed to be four and one-half feet below final
finish grade at the foundation and any backfill shall be properly compacted to
prevent excessive frost penetration. Footings shall meet the requirements for
thickness and width required by the Building Code or be at least 12 inches wide
and six inches thick if there are no provisions in such Code. The home shall be
firmly anchored to the foundation in accordance with accepted practice in lieu
of tie-downs. A permanent type skirting material compatible with the design and
color of the manufactured home shall be installed to provide substantial
resistance to heavy winds. Skirting shall be maintained in an attractive manner
consistent with the exterior of the manufactured home to preserve the
appearance of the manufactured home. Sufficient screened ventilating area shall
be installed in the skirting to supply the combustion requirements of heating
units and ventilating of the manufactured home. Provisions shall be made for
easy removal of a section large enough to permit access for inspection of the
enclosed area under the manufactured home and for repair of sewer, water and
utility connections.
3.   A mobile home not in place outside a mobile home park on December 3, 1984,
and not complying with the standards required for mobile homes since July,
1976, under the State Building Code, shall not be permitted to be converted to
real estate under Section 435.26 of the Code of Iowa. Only those homes
complying with the standards of safety and construction required since 1976,
with a medallion and certificate of compliance, may be placed outside a mobile
home park after December 3, 1984.
146.04   USE OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
It is unlawful to use for human habitation any recreational vehicle within the
corporate limits of the City except when the same is parked upon private
property for not more than 72 consecutive hours and occupied by the owner of
said property, said owner’s relatives or friends except when the same is parked
in a transient recreational vehicle park existing within the City limits.
146.05   VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT OUTSIDE.
No recreational vehicle or agricultural equipment shall be stored in the front
yard of any improved property zoned “R-1” or “R-2” or on the front half of any
unimproved property so zoned.
146.06   PERMIT.
It is unlawful for any person to operate a mobile home park within the
corporate limits of the City without first obtaining a permit therefor. No
person shall be allowed to make application for a mobile home park permit
without first having the master plan for such mobile home park approved as
provided in this chapter. Application for a permit shall be made in writing to
the Zoning Officer on forms provided by the Zoning Officer and shall be
accompanied by a fee as established by resolution of the Council. After receipt
of an application and the proper fee, the Zoning Officer shall present the same
to the Council at its next regular meeting. If the Council is satisfied that
all of the applicable rules and regulations of this chapter have been complied
with, the Council shall order the Zoning Officer to issue a permit for said
park.
146.07   ENFORCEMENT.
The Zoning Officer shall act as the enforcing agent for this chapter and shall
make such inspections of any mobile home park as are necessary to determine
continuing satisfactory compliance with all of the requirements of this
chapter. The Zoning Officer shall have the power to enter at reasonable times
upon the public and private grounds in any mobile home park for the purpose of
inspecting and investigating to determine compliance with this chapter. It is
the duty of every resident of a mobile home park to give the management thereof
access to any part of such park at reasonable times for the purpose of making
such improvements, repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance
with this chapter. The Zoning Officer shall notify the operator of any mobile
home park of any violations of this chapter, which notification shall be in
writing and shall state the violations, state in general the remedial action
necessary to effect compliance, and set a specific date by which compliance
shall be made. 
146.08   HEARING AND REVOCATION.
Any person affected by any compliance notice issued under the provisions of the
preceding section may, within three days after issuance of such notice, file a
written request with the Clerk for hearing before the Council, and such hearing
shall be held at the Council’s next regular meeting, or at a special meeting
called for that purpose and held before the next regular Council meeting. After
such hearing the Council shall issue an order sustaining, modifying or
withdrawing the compliance notice. Upon failure to comply with any notice given
under the provisions of the preceding section, and as modified by the Council
after hearing, the permit of the mobile home park shall be revoked by the
Council. Upon such revocation the Council shall cause to be served, in the
manner of service of original notices as provided by the Iowa Rules of Civil
Procedure, upon the mobile home park operator and upon the owner and/or
occupant of each mobile home in such park, a notice of revocation, which notice
shall recite the fact of revocation and shall require all occupants of said
park to move and vacate the park premises within 30 days after service of
notice. Any person failing to comply with such notice shall be subject to fine
as provided by this Code of Ordinances and each day of noncompliance shall
constitute a separate offense.
146.09   MASTER PLAN.
No mobile home park shall be permitted to be established or permitted to
continue to operate, if in existence on January 1, 2010, without a master plan
therefor being first approved as in this section provided.
1.   The master plan shall consist of a plat and required schedule to show the
proposed site, drawn to a scale of not less than two inches equal to 100 feet;
the park boundaries; mobile home lot locations; street locations; entrances,
mobile home stands; play areas; common spaces; walks; utilities, including
electricity, gas, water, sanitary and storm sewer systems; location and
identification of all uses; the names and addresses of the park land owners and
the developers; the legal description of the park land and such other data
necessary to give a full, complete and accurate description of the proposed
park.
2.   The minimum acreage covered by a master plan for the original
establishment of a mobile home park shall be two acres and all land shall be
proposed to be developed and none shall be reserved.
3.   No land within the park shall be used or proposed to be used for any
purpose other than residential mobile home and accessory uses and for the
safety and convenience of mobile home occupants.
4.   The actual physical development of the park may be accomplished in stages
as approved by the Commission; however, each stage shall contain a minimum of
15 mobile home lots with necessary utility services to each lot and with a
street in front of each lot.
5.   The minimum dimensions for each individual mobile home lot shall be a 50-
foot width and a lot area of 5,000 square feet for use by mobile homes 18 feet
or less in width and a 60-foot width and a lot area of 6,000 square feet for
use by all other mobile homes.
6.   Mobile home stands and appurtenances shall be so located on each mobile
home lot so as to provide a minimum front yard depth of 25 feet and a minimum
side yard of five feet.
7.   If land is to be developed for accessory use, such as recreational areas,
laundromats, etc., the master plan shall describe in detail such accessory uses
including any proposed improvements to be placed thereon and set a date by
which the use will be available to park occupants.
8.   A non-use buffer zone, a minimum of 24 feet in width, shall be required
between the lot boundaries of perimeter lots and the park boundaries, except
that a street may be used in lieu thereof, but no parking shall be allowed on
the side of the street contiguous to the park boundary.
9.   All streets within the park, whether public or private, shall be either 24
feet wide or 31 feet wide, curb back to curb back. Except as provided in
Subsection 8 of this section, parking shall be allowed only on one side of a
24-foot street and on both sides of a 31-foot street. No dead-end streets of
more than 300 feet in length shall be permitted and all dead-end streets of 200
feet or more in length shall end in a circular turn-around with a minimum 100-
foot diameter. Streets within the park shall have at least two accesses to non-
park public streets, which accesses shall be at least 240 feet apart. The speed
limit on all streets within the park shall be 15 MPH and all streets shall be
so posted. “No Parking” signs shall also be erected as required. A street
lighting system shall be required to provide safe and adequate lighting for all
persons and vehicles using the park streets.
10.   Streets within the park may be public streets, in which case the same
shall be constructed and otherwise conform to the requirements of the City and
shall be dedicated to the City for public use, subject to acceptance by the
Council.
11.   Streets within the park may be private and remain owned by the park
owner, in which case the same shall be constructed in an approved manner with
approved surfacing materials with approved curbs to provide adequate drainage,
shall be maintained free from cracks, holes and other hazards and have a hard,
smooth, dust-free surface. Detailed plans for private street construction shall
be submitted as part of the master plan.
12.   After approval of the master plan, the developer shall cause the
boundaries thereof and the streets, common areas, mobile home lots and other
areas within the park to be staked on the ground by an Iowa registered land
surveyor and the limits of each of such areas shall be clearly marked by
permanent steel or iron rods driven into the ground with the top of said rods
flush with the finished lot grade and upon completion of a plat certified by
the surveyor showing the stakes so set shall be filed with the Zoning Officer.
13.   The area of the mobile home stand shall provide an adequate base for the
placement and anchoring of the mobile home to secure the superstructure against
uplift, sliding, rotation and overturning. The mobile home stand shall be
constructed so that it will not shift or settle unevenly under the weight of
the mobile home due to inadequate drainage, vibration or other forces acting on
the superstructure. All mobile homes shall be fully skirted and securely
anchored to their stand.
14.   One permanent, low-illuminated identification sign may be permitted at
any entrance to a mobile home park. Such sign shall be of ornamental metal,
stone, masonry, wood or other permanent material, and shall indicate only the
name of the mobile home park. The sign shall not exceed 16 square feet in
surface area.
15.   An adequate and safe water supply system shall be provided to serve all
mobile home lots and other uses within the mobile home park and the same shall
be constructed and maintained in accordance with State and local laws and the
main water supply shall be connected to the City water system.
16.   Fire hydrants shall be installed within the mobile home park at locations
determined by the Commission and shall be connected to the public water system.
17.   An adequate and safe sewage system shall be provided in all mobile home
parks for conveying and disposing of all sewage. All sewer mains and laterals
shall be constructed according to specifications of the City and connected to
the City sanitary sewer system or a sanitary system approved by the City and
the system shall be thereafter maintained in accordance with all applicable
provisions of this Code of Ordinances.
18.   An electrical and telephone wiring system consisting of necessary wiring,
fixtures and equipment shall be installed and maintained in accordance with
applicable statutes, ordinances and codes governing such systems. Main
electrical power lines shall be constructed underground according to local
electrical utility specifications. Each mobile home stand shall be provided
with an approved disconnect device and over-current protective equipment.
Outlet receptacles at each mobile home stand shall be located not more than 25
feet from the over-current protective devices in the mobile home, and a three-
pole, four-wire grounding type shall be used. Receptacles shall be of weather
proof construction and configurations shall be in accordance with Standard for
Mobile Homes, USAS A 119.9 published by United States of America Standards
Institute, or similar equipment. The mobile home shall be connected to the
outlet receptacle by a flexible cable with connectors and a male attachment
plug, with a minimum of 100 ampere supply. Where the calculated load exceeds
100 amperes, or where a permanent feeder is used, the supply shall be by means
of a four-wire installation. Telephone distribution lines shall be constructed
underground according to local telephone utility specifications. All exposed
non-current metal parts of mobile homes and all equipment having electrical
connections shall be grounded by means of a grounding conductor with branch
circuit conductors or other approved method of grounded metallic wiring. The
neutral conductor shall not be used as a ground for mobile homes or other
electrical equipment.
19.   Natural gas piping systems, liquefied petroleum gas systems and all fuel
oil systems shall be installed and maintained in accordance with applicable
statutes, ordinances and codes governing such systems.
20.   The master plan in six copies shall be filed with the Council and the
Council shall refer the same to the Commission. The Commission shall review the
master plan to determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter, this
Code of Ordinances, and other applicable Federal, State and local statutes,
ordinances and codes. The Commission may waive requirements when strict
application would result in substantial hardship or injustice. The Commission
may impose additional requirements for the establishment, development and
construction of the park if the Commission determines such additional
requirements are necessary for the welfare of the City and its occupants and/or
the occupants of the park, to protect the area surrounding the park or to
preserve the general intent and spirit of this chapter. The imposition of
additional requirements may be appealed by the developer to the Board of
Adjustment within five days after imposition and the Board shall meet within 10
days after a written notice of appeal is filed with any Board member and the
Board shall hear the appeal and enter an order sustaining, modifying or
rescinding all or any part of the additional requirements.
21.   After review of the master plan, as revised by the additional
requirements of the Commission, if any, the Commission shall recommend approval
to the Council or shall disapprove the master plan. If disapproved, the reasons
therefor shall be set forth in the Commission’s minutes.
22.   If recommended for approval, the master plan shall be forwarded to the
Council at its next regular meeting. The Council shall consider the master plan
and if the same is acceptable and in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, the Council shall approve and accept the same, or the master plan may
be disapproved and the reasons therefor set forth in the minutes of the
Council.
23.   If approved and accepted by the Council, the developer may commence
construction of the park in accordance with the master plan. During and upon
completion of construction the Zoning Officer shall inspect the same to
determine compliance with the master plan and with all other applicable
statutes, ordinances and codes. If, upon inspection, the Zoning Officer finds
noncompliance, said officer shall list the variances and give the list to the
developer. The developer may appeal the listed variances to the Council in the
same manner as provided in Section
146.08 and the Council shall hear the appeal and decide as provided in said
section.
24.   The Commission shall not recommend for approval and the Council shall not
approve any master plan unless the property adjacent to the proposed mobile
home park is adequately safeguarded, the plan is consistent with the intent and
purposes of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and welfare and
that the buildings in said proposed park shall be used for residential purposes
only with the usual accessory uses.
25.   A community shelter, defined as a stand-alone shelter that is designed
and constructed to protect a number of people from a natural hazard event,
shall be erected by the park owner when the sixth (6th) unit of the park is
leased/rented.
146.10   STANDARDS FOR MOBILE HOMES.
No mobile home shall be connected to water, sewer, fuel, gas or electrical
service unless the mobile home complies with the standards and requirements
prescribed by Standard for Mobile Homes, USAS A 119.1 1963, and amendments
thereto, as published by the United States of America Standards Institute, as
applicable, which publication is hereby adopted and by reference made a part of
this chapter, a copy of which is and shall remain on file in the office of the
City Clerk as part of the records of such office. Compliance with said
standards shall be determined by the Zoning Officer. A certificate, if issued
by the manufacturer of the mobile home, shall be permanently affixed on a
readily visible location on the exterior of the mobile home as prima facie
evidence of such compliance.
146.11   SKIRTING.
A permanent type material of construction compatible with the design and color
of the mobile home shall be installed to enclose the open space between the
bottom of the mobile home side and the grade level of the mobile home stand and
shall be so installed to provide substantial resistance to heavy winds.
Skirting shall be maintained in an attractive manner consistent with the
exterior of the mobile home to preserve the appearance of the mobile home and
of the mobile home park. Sufficient screened ventilating area shall be
installed in the skirting to supply the combustion requirements of heating
units and ventilating of the mobile home. Provisions shall be made for easy
removal of a section large enough to permit access for inspection of the
enclosed area under the mobile home and for repair of sewer, water and utility
connections.
146.12   REFUSE DISPOSAL.
The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in a mobile home park shall be
the responsibility of the mobile home park owner, and shall be conducted so as
to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding areas, accident
or fire hazards, or air pollution. Storage or accumulation of any unusable or
junk vehicles or machinery is prohibited within mobile home parks. Also
prohibited within the mobile home park is auto repair or auto rebuilding,
except emergency service.
146.13   MANAGEMENT.
The person to whom a permit for a mobile home park is issued shall operate the
park in compliance with this chapter, and shall provide adequate supervision to
maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean
and sanitary condition. The park management shall notify park occupants of all
provisions of this chapter and inform them of their duties and responsibilities
hereunder. The management shall be responsible for the proper placement of each
mobile home on its stand, including securing its stability and the installation
of all utility connections, and shall notify each occupant that required
skirting shall be installed after the ground thaws. The park owner or manager
shall notify the Zoning Officer within 24 hours of any hook-up, installation,
or replacement of water, sewer, electrical, gas or fuel connections so that an
inspection can be made of the work. If the streets within the park are private
streets, the park owner shall keep the streets clean and free of snow, trash
and debris.
146.14   SUBDIVISION.
Once approved and established, no part or parcel or use of any mobile home park
shall thereafter be sold, leased, subdivided or otherwise set aside from the
park, except that the whole park may be sold or otherwise conveyed to a new
owner of the whole and except that mobile home lots within the park may be
rented for the placement of mobile homes for residential use.
CHAPTER 147
FIRE ZONE
 
147.01 Fire Zone Established  147.05 Reconstruction Prohibited
147.02 Plans Submitted        147.06 Special Permit
147.03 Buildings Prohibited   147.07 Removal of Buildings
147.04 Construction Standards 147.08 Storage of Materials Restricted
 
147.01   FIRE ZONE ESTABLISHED.
A Fire Zone is established to include all of the following territory:
In the Original Town of Clarion, Iowa: All of Block 14; all of Block 11, except
Lots 3, 4, 5, and 6; all of Block 10, except Lots 1 and 2.
In Railroad Addition to Clarion, Iowa: All of Block 5, and the East Half of
Block 6.
In McKays Addition to Clarion, Iowa: All of Block 3, except Lots 13, 14, 15,
16, 17, and 18; all of Block 4, except Lots 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14.
147.02   PLANS SUBMITTED.
It is unlawful to build, enlarge, or alter any structure, building, or part
thereof, within the Fire Zone until a plan of the proposed work, together with
a statement of materials to be used has been submitted to the Council, who
shall, if in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, issue a permit for
the proposed work.
147.03   BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.
The erection of any building or structure of any kind, or additions thereto, or
substantial alterations thereof, involving partial rebuilding, are prohibited
in the Fire Zone, unless constructed in strict compliance with the provisions
of this chapter.
147.04   CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
The construction standards for all buildings, structures, or parts thereof
within the Fire Zone shall be of Type I, Type II, or, at a minimum, Type III
fire resistant construction, as specified in the International Building Code.
147.05   RECONSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
Any building within the Fire Zone not constructed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter which is hereafter damaged by fire, decay, or
otherwise shall not be rebuilt, altered, or reconstructed except in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
147.06   SPECIAL PERMIT.
The Council may, by four-fifths vote, issue a special permit to improve any
property within the Fire Zone contrary to the provisions of this chapter, on
condition that such improvement shall not increase the rates for fire insurance
or the fire hazard potential of the area, or to allow any person to erect or
move in any building or structure for temporary purposes for a period of time
not exceeding six months from the date of such permission.
147.07   REMOVAL OF BUILDINGS.
Any person who erects any building in the Fire Zone, contrary to the provisions
of this chapter, shall be given written notice by the Mayor to remove or tear
down the same, and if such removal or taking down is not completed within 30
days from the time of the service of such notice, the Mayor shall cause the
same to be removed or taken down. The Mayor shall report an itemized bill of
the expense to the Clerk, and the same shall be charged to the person owning
such building. The Clerk shall present the bill to the owner of the property
and if the bill is not paid within 10 days from the date it is presented, the
amount of the bill shall be certified, by the Clerk, to the County Treasurer,
as a lien against the property and collected the same as other taxes.
147.08   STORAGE OF MATERIALS RESTRICTED.
No person shall have or deposit any grain stack, pile of rubbish, explosives,
hazardous chemicals or other flammable substance within the Fire Zone, nor
shall any person have or deposit any cord wood or fire wood, within the Fire
Zone without written permission from the Mayor, specifying the maximum amount
of such cord wood or fire wood, that may be kept, stored, or deposited on any
lot or part of a lot within the Fire Zone, unless the same be within one of the
buildings allowed by this chapter. No person shall build or allow any fires,
whether trash fires or otherwise, within the Fire Zone as described in this
chapter.
CHAPTER 150
BUILDING NUMBERING
 
150.01 Definitions        150.03 Building Numbering Plan
150.02 Owner Requirements
 
150.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Owner” means the owner of the principal building.
2.   “Principal building” means the main building on any lot or subdivision
thereof.
150.02   OWNER REQUIREMENTS.
Every owner shall comply with the following numbering requirements:
1.   Obtain Building Number. The owner shall obtain the assigned number to the
principal building from the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
2.   Display Building Number. The owner shall place or cause to be installed
and maintained on the principal building the assigned number in a conspicuous
place to the street in figures not less than three inches in height and of a
contrasting color with their background.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
3.   Failure to Comply. If an owner refuses to number a building as herein
provided, or fails to do so for a period of 30 days after being notified in
writing by the City to do so, the City may proceed to place the assigned number
on the principal building and assess the costs against the property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
150.03   BUILDING NUMBERING PLAN.
Building numbers shall be assigned in accordance with the building numbering
plan on file in the office of the Clerk.
CHAPTER 151
TREES
 
151.01 Definition            151.04 Trimming Trees To Be Supervised
151.02 Planting Restrictions 151.05 Disease Control
151.03 Duty To Trim Trees    151.06 Inspection and Removal
 
151.01   DEFINITION.
For use in this chapter, “parking” means that part of the street, avenue, or
highway in the City not covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and
the curb line or, on unpaved streets, that part of the street, avenue, or
highway lying between the lot line and that portion of the street usually
traveled by vehicular traffic.
151.02   PLANTING RESTRICTIONS.
No tree shall be planted in any parking or street except in accordance with the
following:
1.   Alignment. All trees planted in any street shall be planted in the parking
midway between the outer line of the sidewalk and the curb. In the event a curb
line is not established, trees shall be planted on a line 10 feet from the
property line.
2.   Spacing. Trees shall not be planted on any parking that is less than nine
feet in width, or contains less than 81 square feet of exposed soil surface per
tree. Trees shall not be planted closer than 20 feet from street intersections
(property lines extended) and 10 feet from driveways. If it is at all possible,
trees should be planted inside the property lines and not between the sidewalk
and the curb.
3.   Prohibited Trees. No person shall plant in any street any fruit-bearing
tree or any tree of the kinds commonly known as cottonwood, poplar, box elder,
Chinese elm, evergreen, willow, or black walnut.
151.03   DUTY TO TRIM TREES.
The owner or agent of the abutting property shall keep the trees on, or
overhanging the street, trimmed so that all branches will be at least 15 feet
above the surface of the street and eight feet above the sidewalks. If the
abutting property owner fails to trim the trees, the City may serve notice on
the abutting property owner requiring that such action be taken within five
days. If such action is not taken within that time, the City may perform the
required action and assess the costs against the abutting property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c and e])
151.04   TRIMMING TREES TO BE SUPERVISED.
Except as allowed in Section
151.03, it is unlawful for any person to trim or cut any tree in a street or
public place unless the work is done under the supervision of the City.
151.05   DISEASE CONTROL.
Any dead, diseased, or damaged tree or shrub that may harbor serious insect or
disease pests or disease injurious to other trees is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
151.06   INSPECTION AND REMOVAL.
The Council shall inspect or cause to be inspected any trees or shrubs in the
City reported or suspected to be dead, diseased or damaged, and such trees and
shrubs shall be subject to the following:
1.   City Property. If it is determined that any such condition exists on any
public property, including the strip between the curb and the lot line of
private property, the Council may cause such condition to be corrected by
treatment or removal. The Council may also order the removal of any trees on
the streets of the City which interfere with the making of improvements or with
travel thereon.
2.   Private Property. If it is determined with reasonable certainty that any
such condition exists on private property and that danger to other trees or to
adjoining property or passing motorists or pedestrians is imminent, the Council
shall notify by certified mail the owner, occupant or person in charge of such
property to correct such condition by treatment or removal within 14 days of
said notification. If such owner, occupant, or person in charge of said
property fails to comply within 14 days of receipt of notice, the Council may
cause the condition to be corrected and the cost assessed against the property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3b and h])
CHAPTER 155
BUILDING PERMITS
 
155.01 Permit Required                     155.07 Appeals
155.02 Applications and Fees               155.08 Cost of Appeals
155.03 Investigation                       155.09 Council Approval
155.04 Grounds for Denial                  155.10 Time Limits
155.05 Conditions for Approval             155.11 Liability
155.06 Suspension or Revocation of Permits 155.12 Retroactive Building Permits
 
155.01   PERMIT REQUIRED.
It is unlawful within the City to build, remodel, or move into the City any
structure or to change the type of occupancy of any dwelling, commercial or
industrial structure without first obtaining a permit therefor.
155.02   APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
Application forms for such permit shall be provided by the City, and when fully
completed together with plans, specifications or satisfactory written
descriptions, shall be filed with the Clerk. A building permit fee, as
established by resolution of the Council, shall be paid at the time each
application is filed with the Clerk.
155.03   INVESTIGATION.
The Zoning Administrator shall investigate each application so filed and within
seven days make a determination as to whether the application is allowed under
the City’s Zoning Ordinance.
155.04   GROUNDS FOR DENIAL.
If after such investigation of the application, it is determined by the Zoning
Administrator that the proposed building does not conform to the general
appearances or allowable uses of that zoning district, the application shall be
denied.
155.05   CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL.
As a condition to approving an application, the Zoning Administrator may
require changes in the material, design, or plan of the project contemplated or
its location upon the property described.
155.06   SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
The Zoning Administrator may, for cause, suspend or revoke any permit issued by
serving notice thereof on the permit holder and in such event all work and
operations under the permit shall immediately cease until the cause of
suspension or revocation has been adjusted. The permit holder shall have no
claim against the Zoning Administrator or the City in damages for such
suspension or revocation.
155.07   APPEALS.
In the event the application for permit is denied by the Zoning Administrator,
the applicant may appeal that denial to either the Zoning Board of Adjustment
or the Planning and Zoning Commission.
155.08   COST OF APPEALS.
Should an applicant wish to appeal any decision of the Zoning Administrator to
either the Zoning Board of Adjustment or the Planning and Zoning Commission,
the appeal shall be in writing, filed with the Clerk, and a fee, as established
by resolution of the Council, shall be paid.
155.09   COUNCIL APPROVAL.
All permits approved by the Zoning Administrator and special exceptions and/or
variances approved by the Zoning Board of Adjustment and rezoning approved by
the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be submitted to the Council for final
approval. No such permit, special exception, variance or rezoning shall take
effect until such Council approval.
155.10   TIME LIMITS.
Work for which building permits are issued under the provisions of this chapter
must begin within six months of the date said permit is approved and said work
must be completed within one year. Extensions of the time limits can only be
approved by the Council. No fees shall be charged for time extensions.
155.11   LIABILITY.
The fact that the City issues said building permit in no way makes the City, or
its representatives, liable in the event the applicant fails to comply with any
other rules or regulations that may apply to such construction, change or
remodeling.
155.12   RETROACTIVE BUILDING PERMITS.
If any structure is built, remodeled, or moved into the City, or if the type of
occupancy of any dwelling, commercial or industrial structure is changed
without first obtaining a permit therefor, the Council shall at its option
either require the destruction of the building or may approve a retroactive
building permit. Subject to any applicable approved variances or easements, no
retroactive building permit shall be issued unless the structure in question
complies with the requirements of the Code of Ordinances.
1.   Fees for retroactive building permits applied for before or on December
29, 2017, shall be the same as regular building permits as described in Section
155.02. The fees for a retroactive building permit applied for after December
29, 2017, shall be as established by resolution of the Council.
2.   “Retroactive Building Permit” as used in this section is defined as a
building permit that is applied for after the referenced structures has been
built, remodeled, or moved into the City, including those structures which are
in the process of being built, remodeled, or moved into the City. They do not
include time extensions as provided in Section
155.10.
CHAPTER 156
RENTAL HOUSING CODE
156.01 Purpose and Intent              156.09 Responsibilities of Operators
156.02 Definitions                     156.10 Responsibilities of Occupants
156.03 Terms Defined in Other Codes    156.11 Complaints
156.04 Terms Not Defined               156.12 Right of Entry
156.05 Inspections by City Code        156.13 Unrecorded Land Contracts or
Enforcement Personnel                  Purchase Agreements
156.06 Landlord and Operators Register 156.14 Authority to Act on Nuisances
with City
156.07 Registration                    156.15 Provisions of Other Codes and
                                       Ordinances
156.08 Program for Rental Inspection   156.16 Fees
 
156.01   PURPOSE AND INTENT.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the enforcement of minimum
quality standards for all residential rental dwellings, rental dwelling units,
rooming houses and rooming units; to establish a program of regular rental
inspections; and to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the
residents of the City under the provisions of
Chapter 157 of this Code of Ordinances. It is not the intent of this chapter to
protect the individual, but rather to protect the public as a whole.
156.02   DEFINITIONS.
For the purposes of interpreting and enforcing this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply:
1.   ”Controlled Area” means areas leased to the occupant and not generally
accessible to the general public, which includes, but is not limited to,
dwelling units, garage units and storage units assigned to the occupant under
the lease agreement.
2.   “Dwelling” means any building or structure, except temporary housing,
which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used for living or sleeping by
human occupants, but does not include dormitories, hotels or motels. Whenever
the word “dwelling” is used in this chapter, it shall be construed as though it
were followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
3.   “Dwelling unit” means any habitable room or group of adjoining habitable
rooms located within a dwelling and forming a single unit with facilities which
are used or intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating of
meals. Whenever the term “dwelling unit” is used in this chapter, it shall be
construed as though it were followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
4.   “Non-dwelling structure” means any structure, except a dwelling or rooming
house used or intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of any person,
animal or property of any kind used in conjunction with a rental dwelling or
rental dwelling unit.
5.   “Occupancy” means the act or acts of living, sleeping or cooking in, or
having actual possession of a dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit.
6.   “Occupant” means any person, including an owner or operator, living,
sleeping or cooking in, or having actual possession of a dwelling, dwelling
unit or rooming unit.
7.   “Operator” means any person who has charge, care or control of a building,
or any part thereof, in which any dwelling units or rooming units are let,
either as owner or agent of the owner.
8.   “Owner” means any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others:
   A.   Has legal title or equitable title to any dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house or rooming unit;
   B.   Has charge, care or control of any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming
house or rooming unit as personal representative, executor, executrix,
administrator, administratrix, trustee, conservator of the estate or as the
owner.
9.   “Rental property” means any dwelling for which a stated return or payment
is made for the possession or use thereof.
10.   “Roomer” means an occupant of a rooming house who is charged rent and is
not a member of the rooming house owner’s or operator’s family.
11.   “Rooming house” means any dwelling or that part of any dwelling
containing one or more rooming units in which space is let by the owner or
operator to one or more roomers.
12.   “Rooming unit” means any room or group of rooms forming a single
habitable unit in a rooming house used or intended to be used for living and
sleeping, but not for cooking or eating of meals.
13.   “Temporary housing” means any tent, trailer, motor home, or other
structure used for human shelter which is designed to be transportable and
which is not attached to the ground, to another structure, or to any utilities
system on the same premises for more than 30 days.
156.03   TERMS DEFINED IN OTHER CODES.
Where terms are not defined in this chapter and are defined in
Chapter 157 of this Code of Ordinances, they shall have the same meanings
ascribed to them in that chapter.
156.04   TERMS NOT DEFINED.
Where terms are not defined under the provisions of this chapter or under
Chapter 157 of this Code of Ordinances, they shall have ascribed to them their
ordinarily accepted meanings or such as any context herein may imply.
156.05   INSPECTIONS BY CITY CODE ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL.
The City Administrator or his/her designee is authorized and directed to enter
and make such inspections as are necessary to determine the condition of
dwellings, dwelling units, rooming houses, rooming units and the premises
thereof including, but not limited, to any non-dwelling structures used by
occupants within the City limits in order to perform his or her duty of
safeguarding the health, safety and welfare of the occupants and of the general
public.
156.06   LANDLORD AND OPERATORS TO REGISTER WITH CITY.
1.   All landlords and operators of rental property shall register their rental
properties with the City. Each unit is required to be registered and that
registration must be amended when the property is sold or has a status change.
The registration shall be due May 1 of each calendar year.
2.   The City will provide an application form which must be completed and
updated upon request. The following information shall be provided to the City:
   A.   The street address of the dwelling or rooming house;
   B.   The number of rental units contained in the dwelling or rooming house;
and
   C.   The name, address and telephone number of the owner and any agent of
the owner of the dwelling or rooming house.
3.   If a rental property is not initially registered within the period
established in
156.06(1), a late fee for each structure may be added or a municipal infraction
pursued.
4.   The registration, administrative and other fees outlined in Section
156.16 of this code shall be set by resolution of the Council.
156.07   REGISTRATION.
1.   No person shall rent to another or offer to rent to another any dwelling,
dwelling unit or rooming unit unless the owner or operator of the same has
registered the rental property with the City. Such registration shall be
renewed on an annual basis.
2.   Any person who fails to register their property or properties may be
deemed guilty of a municipal infraction.
3.   For newly constructed rental property, the registration deadline is 30
calendar days after the City Administrator is notified of construction
completion.
4.   For rental property that transfers ownership, the registration deadline is
30 calendar days after the final transfer and/or the recording of such. No
additional fee shall be due from the new owner for currently registered
properties until the next registration deadline.
5.   For properties converted to rental property, the registration deadline is
30 calendar days after said status change.
6.   The registration deadline for a rooming house or other property
theretofore required to be regularly inspected by the State of Iowa is 30
calendar days after the exemption under Chapter
156.08(4) expires.
7.   Failure to register within the prescribed period may result in a late fee
being added or a municipal infraction being pursued.
156.08   PROGRAM FOR RENTAL INSPECTION.
1.   Required Inspections. Regular inspections of each rental property shall be
conducted every three years by a designee of the City Administrator. Spot
inspections may be conducted by City officials upon their observation of units
which are obviously and substantially out of compliance. Any such inspections
will be scheduled with the owner and/or operator of the units.
2.   Requested Inspections. Upon the request of the owner or operator of a
rental unit, the City shall inspect said rental unit to determine compliance
with this chapter or
Chapter 157 of the Code of Ordinances. Upon a successful completion of such
inspection, the unit shall be exempt from regular inspections for a period of
three years.
3.   Section 8 Inspections (also known as SIRHA inspections). Units which have
been inspected and passed Section 8 rental requirements shall be deemed to have
been regularly inspected and exempt from regular inspections for a period of
three years. It shall be the duty of the owner and/or operator of such rental
units to provide proof of a Section 8 inspection to the City. A rental
certificate shall be issued by the City for units which have passed this
inspection requirement.
4.   State-Inspected Properties. All properties required to be regularly
inspected for health and safety standards by the State of Iowa, including but
not limited to, nursing homes, assisted living facilities, hotels, or bed and
breakfast inns are exempt from regular inspections. Owners of properties
claiming exemption under this provision must furnish a copy of the most recent
State inspection report if requested by the City Administrator or designee to
verify the exemption.
5.   Other Exempt Properties. Subject to the determination of code enforcement
staff, the following types of properties are generally considered to be exempt
from registration and inspection:
   A.   Properties that qualify for the State homestead property tax credit;
   B.   Single-family homes or dwelling units occupied by lineal ascendants or
descendants of the owner, as defined by Chapter 450.9 of the Code of Iowa;
   C.   Single-family homes or dwelling units owned by a trust, in which a
trustee lives in the home or dwelling unit;
6.   Failed Inspections. If, after a City inspection, a rental unit is deemed
to be out of compliance, a list of needed repairs will be provided to the owner
and/or operator with a stated time in which to make the repairs. Upon
completion of the repairs, the owner and/or operator shall schedule a re-
inspection of the property to confirm compliance. The owner and/or operator
shall pay an additional fee if more than one re-inspection is needed to gain
compliance.
156.09   RESPONSIBILITIES OF OPERATORS.
In addition to and in accordance with the requirements of
Chapter 157 and other applicable chapters of this Code of Ordinances, operators
are designated to be specifically responsible for the following items. Where
any conflict may appear between the guidelines of this chapter and
Chapter 157, the definitions and guidelines of this chapter shall control.
1.   Maintenance of Structure.
   A.   Structures shall be maintained in safe and sound condition and shall be
capable of supporting the loads that normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
[Clarion Code of Ordinances, Chapter
157.04(1),
157.04(3),
157.04(8),
157.04(10),
157.05 and
157.06]
   B.   Exterior shall be maintained in reasonably weathertight, watertight,
rodent-proof and insect-proof condition. [Clarion Code of Ordinances,
157.03(2) and
157.04(12)]
   C.   Doors shall be maintained in good and functional condition and every
door, when closed, shall fit reasonably well within the frame. [Clarion Code of
Ordinances,
157.04(13)]
   D.   Windows shall be maintained in good and functional condition and shall
fit reasonably well within the frame. [Clarion Code of Ordinances,
157.04(11)]
   E.   Interior surfaces shall be maintained so as to permit the surface to be
kept in a clean and sanitary condition, notwithstanding the occupant’s
obligations under Section
156.10(l )(A) and
156.10(1)(B). [Clarion Code of Ordinances,
157.05(5)]
   F.   Accessory structures shall be kept in a reasonably good state of
repair. [Clarion Code of Ordinances,
157.03(4)]
2.   Rainwater drainage. [Clarion Code of Ordinances,
157.04(5)]
3.   Grading, drainage and landscaping of premises. [Clarion Code of
Ordinances,
157.03(1)]
4.   Chimneys and smoke pipes shall be maintained in a reasonably good state of
repair. [Clarion Code of Ordinances,
157.04(9)]
5.   Exterior surfaces shall be reasonably maintained, protected from the
elements and against decay. [Clarion Code of Ordinances,
157.04(4)]
6.   Means of egress shall be maintained in good condition and shall be free of
obstruction at all times. [Clarion Code of Ordinances,
157.12(3)]
7.   Hanging screens and storm windows shall be maintained by the owner or
operator of the premises except when there is a written agreement between the
owner and the occupant to the contrary. [Clarion Code of Ordinances,
157.04(11)]
8.   Electrical systems of every dwelling or accessory structure shall be
maintained in good and safe working condition. [Clarion Code of Ordinances,
157.11(5) and
157.11(6)]
9.   Supplied plumbing fixtures and systems shall be maintained in good and
sanitary working condition. [Clarion Code of Ordinances,
157.10(5),
157.10(6) and
157.10(7)].
10.   Gas appliances and facilities shall be properly connected and maintained
in good condition. [Clarion Code of Ordinances,
157.10(6D) and
157.11(3B)]
11.   Heating and supplied cooling equipment shall be maintained in good and
safe working condition. [Clarion Code of Ordinances,
157.11(3)]
12.   Floors in kitchen and bathrooms shall be constructed and maintained so as
to permit such floor to be easily kept in a clean, dry, and sanitary condition.
[Clarion Code of Ordinances,
157.05(5)]
13.   Supplied facilities required by
Chapter 157 and/or present in the unit and/or designated for the exclusive use
by the occupants of the unit at the time that either the rental agreement is
signed or possession is given shall function safely and shall be maintained in
proper working condition. Maintenance of facilities, utilities, and equipment
not required by this chapter shall be the operator’s responsibility unless
stated to the contrary in the rental agreement. No required supplied facility
shall be removed, shut off, or disconnected from any occupied dwelling unit or
rooming unit except for such temporary interruption as may be necessary while
actual repairs, replacements, or alterations are being made. [Clarion Code of
Ordinances,
157.10 and
157.11]
14.   Refrigerators and stoves, where provided by the operator, shall be
maintained in good and safe working condition.
15.   Fire protection systems and carbon monoxide detection systems, where
present, shall be maintained in good working condition at all times and shall
be provided at the beginning of each tenancy. [Clarion Code of Ordinances,
157.12(5) and
157.13]
16.   Covered cisterns shall be fenced, safely covered, or filled in such a way
as not to create a hazard to life or limb. [Clarion Code of Ordinances,
157.04(17)]
17.   Openings through walls or floors shall be adequately enclosed or sealed
to prevent the spread of fire or passage of vermin. [Clarion Code of
Ordinances,
157.03(2)]
18.   Pest extermination shall be the responsibility of the operator whenever
infestation exists in two or more of the dwelling units or rooming units of any
dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two or
more dwelling units or more than one rooming unit. [Clarion Code of Ordinances,
157.08]
19.   Operator to Let Clean Units: No operator shall permit occupancy of the
vacant dwelling unit or rooming unit unless it is clean, sanitary, and fit for
human occupancy. [Clarion Code of Ordinances,
157.05(1)]
20.   Maintenance of public areas in a safe and sanitary condition shall be the
responsibility of the operator of a dwelling containing two or more dwelling
units or more than one rooming unit, unless there is a written agreement
between the operator and occupant to the contrary. [Clarion Code of Ordinances,
157.05(1)]
21.   Provision of adequate facilities for the disposal of garbage in
compliance with this code is required.
156.10   RESPONSIBILITIES OF OCCUPANTS.
An occupant’s failure to fulfill the responsibilities of this section shall not
cause the failure of an inspection or the refusal to issue a rental
certificate. An occupant’s failure to fulfill these responsibilities, however,
could provide rights to a landlord under the Iowa Uniform Residential Landlord
and Tenant Act.
1.   Occupant Responsibility. Every occupant of a dwelling unit or rooming unit
shall keep in a clean, safe, and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling,
dwelling unit, rooming unit, or premises thereof he or she occupies and
controls.
   A.   Every floor and floor covering shall be kept reasonably clean and
sanitary.
   B.   Every wall and ceiling shall be kept reasonably clean and free of dirt
or greasy film.
   C.   No dwelling or the premises thereof shall be used for the storage or
handling of refuse.
   D.   No dwelling or the premises thereof shall be used for the storage or
handling of dangerous or hazardous materials.
2.   Plumbing Fixtures. The occupants of a dwelling unit shall keep all
supplied plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition and shall
be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care, proper use, and proper
operation thereof.
3.   Extermination of Pests. Every occupant of a single-family dwelling shall
be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents, or other pests
therein or on the premises; every occupant of a dwelling containing more than
one dwelling unit or rooming unit shall be responsible for such extermination
within the unit occupied by him whenever said unit is the only one infested.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, whenever infestation
is caused by the failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a reasonably
rodent-proof or reasonably insect-proof condition, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
4.   Storage and Disposal of Garbage. Every occupant of a dwelling shall
dispose of rubbish, garbage, and any other organic waste in a clean and
sanitary manner by placing it in the authorized disposal facilities or storage
containers required by this code.
5.   Use and Operation of Supplied Heating Facilities. Every occupant of a
dwelling unit or rooming unit shall be responsible for the exercise of
reasonable care, proper use, and proper operation of supplied heating
facilities.
6.   Electrical Wiring. No temporary wiring or extension cords shall be used
except extension cords which run directly from portable electric fixtures to
convenience outlets and which do not lie beneath floor coverings or extend
through doorways, transoms, or similar apertures and structural elements or
attached thereto. The occupant shall not knowingly overload the circuitry of
the dwelling unit or rooming unit.
7.   Supplied Facilities. Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all
supplied fixtures and facilities therein in a clean and sanitary condition and
shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care, proper use, and
proper operation thereof.
8.   Fire Protection. It shall be the responsibility of the occupant to
maintain operational early warning fire protection systems by means of
replacing batteries as needed. If these systems become inoperable by mechanical
failure, the occupant is required to notify the owner.
156.11   COMPLAINTS.
All persons making complaints concerning the compliance with the provisions of
this chapter of any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit
shall do so in the following manner:
1.   Before filing a complaint with the City, occupants shall provide the
operator a written, dated notice providing sufficient detail to identify
alleged violations. The notice shall be provided to operator by certified mail
or delivery confirmation.
2.   Instances of occupants making complaints concerning the dwelling or
dwelling unit in which they reside, such tenant shall attach a dated copy of
the notice in which they requested the owner or operator to correct the alleged
violation, unless the complaint pertains to an emergency situation as
determined by the City Administrator or his or her designee.
3.   The complaints shall be in writing upon a form provided by the City and
signed by the complainant.
4.   Such complaints shall state the address of the premises, the name of the
owner, landlord or operator, and shall state the nature of the alleged
violation with specificity.
5.   It is a violation of the provisions of this chapter for an owner or
operator to take reprisals against any tenant making a complaint under the
provisions of this chapter. Any such reprisals shall constitute a municipal
infraction.
6.   Upon receipt of evidence that the operator has received proper
notification as to an alleged violation and been given an appropriate amount of
time to resolve the complaint, the City may within seven days initiate
abatement procedures as outlined in
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances or utilize any other remedy available to
it under this Code of Ordinances, at law, or in equity.
156.12   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
1.   City code enforcement personnel are authorized and directed to enforce all
of the provisions of this ordinance and
Chapter 157 of this Code of Ordinances and to perform the duties of
safeguarding the health, safety and welfare of the occupants of all rental
dwellings and the general public.
2.   City code enforcement personnel are authorized to enter and make
inspection to enforce any of the provisions of this chapter, or whenever there
is reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or upon any
premises located within the City any condition or code violation which makes
such building or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous.
3.   City code enforcement personnel may enter such building or premises at all
reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon them
by this chapter, provided that said official shall first present proper
credentials and request entry. Such official shall first make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of the
building or premises and for entry.
4.   City code enforcement personnel may make inspections of all rental
premises pursuant to the City’s regular inspection program as frequently as may
be necessary and may make an inspection at any reasonable time based upon the
need for code enforcement.
5.   If such entry is refused for regular request or complaint inspections, the
City code enforcement personnel shall have recourse to every remedy provided by
law to secure entry. When the City code enforcement personnel shall have first
obtained a proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure
entry, no owner, occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control
of any building or premises, shall fail or neglect to promptly permit entry
therein by the authorized personnel for the purpose of inspection and
examination pursuant to this chapter.
156.13   UNRECORDED LAND CONTRACTS OR PURCHASE AGREEMENTS.
For purposes of this chapter, any residential property which is the subject of
an unrecorded land contract or purchase agreement shall be treated the same as
rental property. The contract seller shall have the duties and responsibilities
and shall be subject to the same penalties as the owner of rental property.
156.14   CHAPTER DOES NOT IMPAIR AUTHORITY TO ACT ON NUISANCES.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed or interpreted to impair or limit in
any way the authority of the City to define and declare nuisances, or of the
City Administrator, the Police Chief or other City officials to cause the
removal or abatement of nuisances by summary proceedings or other appropriate
proceedings or otherwise limit in any remedy available to the City under this
Code of Ordinances, at law, or in equity.
156.15   CHAPTER DOES NOT ABROGATE PROVISIONS OF OTHER CODES AND ORDINANCES.
The provisions of this chapter shall not abrogate the responsibility of any
person to comply with any provision of other ordinances of the City.
156.16   FEES.
The following fees shall be set by resolution of the Council, non-payment of
which will constitute a municipal infraction:
1.   Annual registration and triennial inspection, which are to follow a format
of a set dollar amount for the first unit of each building, with a lesser fee
for each additional unit of a building.
2.   Re-inspection.
3.   Late registration.
4.   Section 8 inspection filing fee.
CHAPTER 157
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
 
157.01 Property Maintenance Standards   157.08 Extermination
Enumerated
157.02 Definitions                      157.09 Light and Ventilation
                                        Requirements
157.03 Exterior Property Areas          157.10 Plumbing Facilities and Fixture
                                        Requirements
157.04 Exterior Structures              157.11 Mechanical and Electrical
                                        Requirements
157.05 Interior Structures and Property 157.12 Fire Safety Requirements
Areas
157.06 Handrails and Guardrails         157.13 Carbon Monoxide Detectors
                                        Required
157.07 Accumulation of Rubbish, Garbage 157.14 Notice to Abate
and Yard Waste
 
157.01   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS ENUMERATED.
These minimum conditions and responsibilities of persons for maintenance of
structures, equipment and exterior property shall govern.
1.   Responsibility. Owners shall be responsible for maintaining structures and
exterior property in compliance with these requirements while the occupants
shall be responsible for keeping in a clean, sanitary and safe condition which
they occupy and control, except as may be provided otherwise herein or in
Chapter 156 of this Code of Ordinances.
2.   Vacant Structures and Land. Shall be maintained in a clean, safe, secure
and sanitary condition as provided herein so as not to constitute a violation
of any other applicable chapter of this Code of Ordinances adversely affecting
the public health or safety.
157.02   DEFINITIONS.
1.   “Habitable space” means space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating
or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces,
and similar areas are not considered habitable spaces.
2.   “Stagnant water” means ponding of standing water for unusual amounts of
time, with no current or flow for drainage purposes, often with an unpleasant
smell or harboring of mosquitoes as a result.
157.03   EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS.
1.   Grading and Drainage. Exterior areas must be maintained to prevent erosion
and accumulation of stagnant water.
2.   Rodent Infestation. Proper precautions must be taken to prevent or
eliminate rodent infestation.
3.   Exhaust Vents. Vents shall not be discharged directly upon abutting public
or private property.
4.   Accessory Structures. Must be maintained, structurally sound and in good
repair.
5.   Retaining Walls. Must be maintained, structurally sound and in good
repair.
157.04   EXTERIOR STRUCTURES.
1.   General. The exterior structure shall be maintained in good repair,
structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the public
health, safety or welfare.
2.   Premises Identification. Properties must comply with
Chapter 150 of this Code of Ordinances.
3.   Structural Members. Shall be maintained free from deterioration and
capable of safely supporting the imposed loads.
4.   Exterior Walls. Shall be free from holes, breaks and loose or rotting
materials, and otherwise properly maintained. All exterior wood surfaces of a
dwelling and its accessory structures, fences, porches and similar
appurtenances shall be reasonably protected from the elements and against decay
by non-lead based paint or other approved protective coating.
Exception: Where it can be demonstrated that the exterior wood surface is
comprised of a type or species of wood or has been treated in such a way as to
cause it to be especially resistant to decay or infestation, the wood surface
in question, if approved by the inspector, shall be exempt from the
requirements listed in this subsection.
5.   Roofs and Drainage. Shall not have defects that admit rain with drainage
to prevent leaking into structure or deterioration. Drains, gutters and
downspouts, where present, must be maintained and not discharged in a manner to
create a nuisance.
6.   Decorative Features. Shall be maintained in good repair with proper
anchorage and in a safe condition.
7.   Overhang Extensions. All overhang extensions including, but not limited
to, canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes and
exhaust ducts shall be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored so as
to be kept in a safe and sound condition. When required, all exposed surfaces
of metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust
by periodic application of weather­ coating materials, such as paint or similar
surface treatment.
8.   Stairways, Decks, Porches and Balconies. Shall be maintained structurally
sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage and capable of supporting imposed
loads.
9.   Chimneys and Towers. Shall be maintained structurally safe and sound and
in good repair with exposed surfaces protected from the elements and against
decay or rust.
10.   Handrails and Guards. Shall be firmly fastened, capable of supporting
normally imposed loads and maintained.
11.   Windows, Skylights and Door Frames. Shall be kept in sound condition,
good repair and weather-tight, easily openable if required for emergency
egress, and capable of being held in position by window hardware.
12.   Insect Screens. From April 1 to October 31, outside openings required for
ventilation shall be supplied with tightly fitting screens. Every storm door
shall have a self-closing device in good working condition. Screens shall not
be required where other approved means such as air curtains or insect repellent
fans are employed.
13.   Doors. Shall be maintained in good condition with locks at unit entrances
being tightly secured. Doors that are equipped with a deadbolt shall be
operated from the inside only by the turning of a knob and shall have a lock-
throw of not less than one inch. A sliding bolt shall not be acceptable, and
the lock shall be operable without the use of a key, tool, special knowledge or
effort.
14.   Basement Hatchways. Shall be maintained to prevent the entrance of
rodents, rain and surface drainage water. If the hatchway provides access to a
unit, it shall be equipped with devices that secure the unit(s) from
unauthorized entry.
15.   Building Security. Doors, windows or hatchways for units shall be
provided with devices designed to provide security for the occupants and
property within.
16.   Windows. A unit’s operable windows located in whole or part within six
feet of ground level shall be equipped with sash-locking devices.
17.   Cisterns. All cisterns or similar water storage facilities shall be
fenced, safely covered or filled in such a way as not to create a hazard to
life or limb.
157.05   INTERIOR STRUCTURES AND PROPERTY AREAS.
1.   General. Shall be maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a
clean, sanitary condition. Occupants shall keep that part of the structure
which they occupy in a clean and sanitary condition. The owner of multi-family
unit(s) shall maintain the shared or public areas of the structure(s) and
exterior in a clean and sanitary condition. No owner shall permit occupancy of
a vacant dwelling unit or rooming unit unless it is clean, sanitary and fit for
human occupancy.
2.   Structural Members. Shall be maintained structurally sound and capable of
supporting the imposed loads.
3.   Stairs and Walking Surfaces. Shall be maintained in sound condition and
good repair.
4.   Handrails and Guards. Shall be firmly fastened and capable of supporting
normally imposed loads and maintained.
5.   Interior Surfaces. Every interior partition, wall, floor, ceiling and
other interior surface shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
157.06   HANDRAILS AND GUARDRAILS.
Every exterior and interior flight of stairs having more than four risers shall
have a handrail on one side of the stair and every open portion of a stair,
landing, balcony, porch, deck, ramp or other walking surface which is more than
30 inches above the floor or grade below shall have guards. Handrails shall not
be less than 30 inches high or more than 42 inches high measured vertically
above the nosing of the tread or above the finished floor of the landing or
walking surface. Guards shall not be less than 30 inches high above the floor
of the landing, balcony, porch, deck, ramp or other walking surface. For new
installations in a residential setting, guards (spindles) on the open side of
stairs shall not have openings which allow passage of a sphere 4-3/8” in
diameter.
157.07   ACCUMULATION OF RUBBISH, GARBAGE AND YARD WASTE.
1.   Accumulation. All exterior property and premises, in compliance with
Chapter 105 of this Code of Ordinances, and the interior of every structure
shall be free from any accumulation of rubbish or garbage. Exterior property
and premises shall additionally be free from any accumulation of yard waste in
compliance with
Chapter 105.
2.   Disposal of Rubbish and Garbage. Rubbish and garbage shall not be stored
outside for more than 48 hours except in a covered, leak-proof container.
157.08   EXTERMINATION.
1.   Infestation. Structures shall be kept free from insect and rodent
infestation.
2.   The owner shall be responsible for extermination prior to renting or
leasing and in the public or shared areas of the structure.
3.   Occupants shall be responsible for extermination during their occupancy of
said dwelling structure or unit.
157.09   LIGHT AND VENTILATION REQUIREMENTS.
1.   General. These provisions shall govern the minimum conditions and
standards for light, ventilation and space for occupying a structure.
2.   Responsibility. Owner shall provide and maintain light, ventilation and
space conditions in compliance with these requirements and no person shall
occupy any premises that do not comply with this code.
3.   Light.
   A.   Habitable Spaces with exterior-facing walls shall have at least one
window of approved size facing directly to the outdoors or to a court with a
minimum glazed area of five percent of the floor area.
   B.   Common Halls and Stairways. Multi-family occupancies shall be lighted
at all times with at least a 60 watt incandescent bulb or equivalent energy
saving bulb, for each 200 square feet of floor area with a spacing not greater
than 30 feet.
   C.   Other Spaces. Shall be provided with natural or artificial light
sufficient to the maintenance of sanitary conditions and the safe occupancy of
the space and utilization of the appliances, equipment and fixtures.
   D.   Alternative Devices. In lieu of the means for natural light prescribed,
artificial light complying with the applicable International Building Code
guidelines is permitted.
4.   Ventilation.
   A.   Habitable Spaces with exterior-facing walls shall have at least one
openable window equal to 50 percent of the minimum required glazed area.
   B.   Bathrooms and Toilet Rooms. Shall comply with ventilation requirements
for a habitable space, except that a window shall not be required in such
spaces equipped with a mechanical ventilation system discharged to the outdoors
or to a properly vented attic.
   C.   Clothes Dryer Exhaust. Shall be independent of all other systems by
exhausting in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions.
   D.   Alternative Devices. In lieu of the means for ventilation prescribed,
artificial mechanical ventilation complying with the applicable International
Mechanical Code guidelines is permitted.
157.10   PLUMBING FACILITIES AND FIXTURE REQUIREMENTS.
1.   General. This section shall govern the minimum plumbing systems,
facilities and plumbing fixtures to be provided.
2.   Responsibility. The owner shall provide and maintain such plumbing
facilities and plumbing fixtures in compliance with these requirements.
3.   Required Facilities.
   A.   Dwelling Units. Shall contain its own tub or shower, lavatory, toilet
and kitchen sink, which shall be maintained in a sanitary and safe working
condition. The lavatory shall be placed in the same room as the toilet or in
close proximity. A kitchen sink shall not be used as a substitute for the
required lavatory.
   B.   Rooming Houses. At least one toilet, lavatory and tub or shower shall
be supplied for each four rooming units.
   C.   Hotels. Where private toilets, lavatories and baths are not provided,
then one toilet, lavatory and tub or shower having access from a public hallway
shall be provided for each 10 occupants.
4.   Toilet Rooms.
   A.   Privacy. Bathrooms shall provide privacy and shall not constitute the
only passage to a hall or other space or exterior. A door and interior locking
device shall be provided for all common or shared bathrooms in a multiple
dwelling.
   B.   Location. Bathrooms serving hotel units, rooming units or dorm units
shall have access by traversing not more than one flight of stairs and shall
have access from a common hall or passageway.
5.   Plumbing Systems and Fixtures.
   A.   General. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly installed and
maintained in working order, kept free from obstructions, leaks, defects and
capable of performing its function.
   B.   Fixture Clearances. Plumbing fixtures shall have adequate clearance for
usage and cleaning.
   C.   Plumbing System Hazards. If a hazard is found, the Code Official shall
require the defects to be corrected to eliminate the hazard promptly.
6.   Water System.
   A.   General. Every fixture shall be properly connected to an approved water
system and shall be supplied with hot or tempered and cold running water as per
the Plumbing Code.
   B.   Contamination. The water supply shall be maintained free from
contamination and all water outlets for plumbing fixtures shall be located
above the flood-level rim of the fixture.
   C.   Supply. Shall be installed and maintained to provide a supply of water
to fixtures in sufficient volume and pressures adequate to enable the fixtures
to function properly, safely and free from defects and leaks.
   D.   Water Heating Facilities. Shall be properly installed, maintained and
capable of providing an adequate amount of water to be drawn at every required
fixture at a temperature of not less than 110° Fahrenheit. A gas-burning water
heater shall not be located in any bathroom, bedroom or other occupied room
normally kept closed unless the plumbing code requirements are met. An approved
combination temperature and pressure-relief valve discharge pipe shall be
properly installed and maintained on water heaters.
7.   Sanitary Drainage System.
   A.   General. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly connected to either a
public sewer system or to an approved private sewage disposal system.
   B.   Maintenance. Every plumbing stack, vent, waste and sewer line shall
function properly and be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects.
157.11   MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
1.   General. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment to be provided.
2.   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment in compliance with these
requirements.
3.   Heating Facilities.
   A.   Facilities Required. Heating facilities shall be provided in structures
as required by this section.
   B.   Heat Supply. Dwellings shall be provided with heating facilities in
good working order and capable of maintaining a room temperature of 65°
Fahrenheit in all habitable rooms and bathrooms. Cooking appliances or portable
heating units shall not be used to provide space heating to meet the
requirement.
   C.   Room Temperature Measurement. Shall be measured three feet above the
floor near the center of the room and two feet inward from the center of each
exterior wall.
4.   Mechanical Equipment.
   A.   Mechanical Appliances. Shall be properly installed and maintained in a
safe working condition.
   B.   Removal of Combustion Products. All fuel-burning equipment and
appliances shall be connected to an approved chimney or vent (exception for
labeled and unvented).
   C.   Clearances. All required clearances to combustible materials shall be
maintained.
   D.   Safety Controls. Shall be maintained in effective operation.
   E.   Combustion. A supply of air for complete combustion of the fuel and for
ventilation of the space containing the fuel-burning equipment shall be
provided.
   F.   Energy Conservation Devices. Shall not be installed unless labeled for
such purpose and the installation is specifically approved.
   G.   Duct Systems. Shall be maintained free of obstructions and shall be
capable of performing the required function.
5.   Electrical Facilities.
   A.   Facilities Required. Every occupied building shall be provided with an
electrical system in compliance with the requirements of this section.
   B.   Service. The size and usage of appliances and equipment shall serve as
a basis for determining the need for additional facilities in accordance with
the Electrical Code. Dwellings shall be served by a three-wire, 120/240 volt,
single-phased electrical service having a rating of not less than 100 amps.
   C.   Electrical System Hazards. Where a hazard is found to the occupants or
the structure by reason of inadequate service, improper fusing, insufficient
receptacle and lighting outlets, improper wiring or installation, deterioration
or damage, or for similar reasons, the Code Official shall require the defects
to be corrected immediately to eliminate the hazard.
6.   Electrical Equipment.
   A.   Installation. All electrical equipment, wiring and appliances shall be
properly installed and maintained in a safe and approved manner.
   B.   Receptacles. Every habitable space in a dwelling unit shall contain at
least one separate and remote receptacle outlet. Every laundry area shall
contain at least one grounded-type receptacle or a receptacle with a ground-
fault circuit interrupter. Every bathroom shall contain at least one
receptacle. Any new bathroom outlet shall have ground-fault circuit interrupter
protection.
7.   Elevators, Escalators and Dumbwaiters.
   A.   General. Shall be maintained to sustain all imposed loads, to operate
properly and to be free from physical and fire hazards with current certificate
of inspection displayed and available for public inspection.
   B.   Elevators. In buildings equipped with more than one passenger elevator,
at least one elevator shall be maintained in operation at all times when the
building is occupied.
157.12   FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
1.   General. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
conditions and standards for fire safety relating to structures and exterior
premises, including fire safety facilities and equipment to be provided. The
State Fire Marshal may impose additional provisions.
2.   Responsibility. The owner shall provide and maintain such fire safety
facilities and equipment in compliance with these requirements.
3.   Means of Egress.
   A.   General. A safe, continuous and unobstructed path of travel shall be
provided from any point in a building or structure to the public way.
   B.   Aisles and Corridors. Aisles and corridors shall be unobstructed.
   C.   Locked Doors. All means of egress doors shall be readily openable from
the side from which egress is to be made without need for keys, special
knowledge or effort.
   D.   Emergency Escape Openings. Required emergency escape and rescue
openings shall be operational from the inside of the room without the use of
keys or tools. Bars, grills, grates or similar devices are permitted to be
placed over emergency escape and rescue openings provided the minimum net clear
opening size complies with the Building Code and such devices shall be
releasable or removable from the inside without the use of a key, tool or force
greater than which is required for normal operation of the escape and rescue
opening.
4.   Fire-Resistance Ratings.
   A.   Fire-Resistance-Rated Assemblies. The fire resistance rating of the
walls, fire stops, shaft enclosures, partitions and floors shall be maintained.
   B.   Opening Protection. Required opening protectives shall be maintained in
an operative condition. All fire and smoke-stop doors shall be maintained in
operable condition. Fire doors and smoke barrier doors shall not be blocked or
obstructed or otherwise made inoperable.
5.   Fire Protection Systems.
   A.   General. Existing residential rental units not already provided with
single station smoke alarms shall be provided with approved single-station
dual-sensor smoke alarms.
   B.   Smoke Alarms. Approved single- or multi-station smoke alarms shall be
installed and maintained in existing single- and multi-family dwelling units,
duplexes, congregate residences and hotel/lodging house guest rooms regardless
of occupant load in each sleeping room and immediately outside of sleeping
areas and on each story including the basement.
   C.   Fire Extinguishers. Multi-family dwellings shall have a 2Al0BC-rated
fire extinguisher located within 75 feet of each dwelling unit’s main entrance,
with a minimum of one per floor. Extinguishers shall be checked and tagged by a
qualified service person annually.
157.13   CARBON MONOXIDE DETECTORS REQUIRED.
1.   General. Approved carbon monoxide detectors are required to be installed
and maintained in each dwelling unit immediately outside sleeping areas.
Dwelling units with no potential source of carbon monoxide are exempted from
this requirement.
2.   Responsibility. The owner shall provide and maintain such detectors and
equipment in compliance with these requirements.
157.14   NOTICE TO ABATE.
Upon discovery of violations of this Chapter, the City may within seven days
initiate abatement procedures as outlined in
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances or exercise any other right or remedy it
may have under this Code of Ordinances, at law, or in equity.
CHAPTER 165
ZONING REGULATIONS
165.01 Definitions                        165.13 Off-Street Loading
165.02 Zoning Districts                   165.14 Signs
165.03 Agricultural District              165.15 Adult Entertainment Businesses
165.04 One- and Two-Family Residential    165.16 Special Exception Uses
District
165.05 Multi-Family Residential District  165.17 Nonconforming Uses
165.06 Mobile Home Park District          165.18 Administration
165.07 Planned Unit Development District  165.19 Violations
(PUD)
165.08 Central Commercial District        165.20 Board of Adjustment
165.09 Highway Commercial District        165.21 Changes and Amendments
165.10 General Industrial District        165.22 Floodplain Management
165.11 General Regulations                165.23 Driveways in Residential Zones
165.12 Off -Street Parking                165.24 Permit Required
 
165.01   DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter the following terms and words are defined. The
words “used or occupied” include the words “intended, designed, or arranged to
be used or occupied.”
1.   “Accessory use or structure” means a use or structure on the same lot
with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal
use or structure.
2.   “Adult amusement or entertainment” means an amusement or entertainment
which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on acts or material
depicting, describing, or relating to sex acts or specified anatomical areas,
as defined herein, including (but not limited to) topless or bottomless
dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators or similar
entertainment.
3.   “Adult bookstore” means an establishment having as a significant portion
of its stock in trade books, films, magazines and other periodicals or goods
and items held for sale which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on matter depicting or describing sex acts or specified anatomical areas.
4.   “Adult hotel or motel” means a building with accommodations used for the
temporary occupancy of one or more individuals and is an establishment wherein
material is presented which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing sex acts or specified anatomical areas for observation
by the individuals therein.
5.   “Adult motion picture arcade” means any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin- or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors, or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to
five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting
or describing sex acts or specified anatomical areas.
6.   “Adult motion picture theater” means an enclosed building used for
presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting or describing sex acts or specified anatomical areas.
7.   “Adult photo studio” means an establishment which, upon payment of a fee,
provides photographic equipment and/or models for the purpose of photographing
specified anatomical areas or sex acts as defined herein.
8.   “Alley” means a public or private thoroughfare which affords only a
secondary means of access to abutting property.
9.   “Apartment” means a single room or set of rooms occupied as a dwelling
(including independent sleeping, sanitary, and cooking facilities) which is
part of multi-family structure.
10.   “Automobile sales and service” means a building or portion thereof,
including the adjacent land area, designed, intended, or used for the selling,
service, and repair of motor vehicles.
11.   “Awning” or “canopy” means a roof-like cover extending over or before a
place as a shelter. An awning shall have a pedestrian head clearance of at
least seven feet. An awning or canopy shall not extend further than four feet
from the building or structure upon which it is attached.
12.   “Basement” means a story having more than one half of its height below
grade. A basement is not counted as a story for the purpose of height
regulations.
13.   “Billboard sign” means a structure, regardless of the material used, that
is erected, maintained or used for public display of posters, painted signs, or
wall signs, whether the structure be placed on the wall or painted itself,
pictures or other pictorial reading material which advertise a business or
attraction which is not carried on, manufactured, grown or sold on the premises
where said sign or billboard is located.
14.   “Block” means property abutting on at least one street and lying within
two or more intersecting or parallel streets or un-subdivided acreage or
railroad right-of-way.
15.   “Boarding, rooming, or lodging house” (also, bed and breakfast) means a
building other than a hotel where for compensation, and by arrangement, lodging
is provided.
16.   “Buildable area” means the portion of a lot remaining after required
yards have been provided.
17.   “Building” means a structure designed or intended for the support,
enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons, animals, or property.
18.   “Building, height of” means the vertical distance from the average
natural grade at the building line, to the highest point of the coping of a
flat roof, or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the average height of
the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
19.   “Business,” “commercial,” and “manufacturing,” when used herein, refer to
the engaging in the purchase, sale, or exchange of goods or services, or the
operation for profit of offices or recreational amusement enterprises.
20.   “Carport” means space for the housing or storage of motor vehicles and
enclosed on not more than two sides by walls. A carport may be attached to
another building or be an accessory structure.
21.   “Club” or “lodge” (private) means an association of persons (for the
promotion of a nonprofit objective) who are bona fide members paying annual
dues, and which association owns, hires, or leases a building, or portion
thereof, the use of such premises being restricted to members and their guests.
It is permissible to serve food and meals to members and their guests on such
premises provided adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities are
available and are operated in compliance with State and municipal laws.
22.   “Day nursery” or “nursery school” means any private agency, institution,
establishment, or place which provides, for compensation, supplemental parental
care and/or educational work, other than overnight lodging, for six or more
unrelated children.
23.   “Driveway” means a traffic way providing access for vehicles to a
building on property abutting a public street.
24.   “Dwelling” means any building or portion thereof designed or used
exclusively for residential purposes, but not including a tent or seasonal
trailer. A manufactured home which has been converted to real estate in
accordance with Section 414 of the Code of Iowa and which is greater in width
than 20 feet and has a permanent foundation and is attached to City utilities
is considered a dwelling for purposes of this chapter.     
25.   “Dwelling, multiple” means a residence designed for the occupancy by
three or more families, with separate housekeeping and cooking facilities for
each.
26.   “Dwelling, single-family” means a detached residence designed for or
occupied by only one family and contains independent cooking facilities for the
family.
27.   “Dwelling, two-family” means a residence designed for or occupied by two
families, with separate entrances, housekeeping, and cooking facilities for
each.
28.   “Essential services” means the erection, construction, alteration, or
maintenance by developers, public utilities, or governmental agencies of
underground or overhead gas, telephone, television, electrical, wastewater,
water transmission or distribution systems, including poles, wires, mains,
drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, substations, treatment plants, traffic
signals, hydrants, and other similar equipment and accessories in connection
therewith reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such
public utilities or governmental agencies or for public health or safety or
general welfare.
29.   “Family” means one or more persons, but not exceeding six persons who are
unrelated, occupying a dwelling and living as a single housekeeping unit, as
distinguished from a group occupying a boarding or lodging house, nursing or
convalescent home, hotel or motel, however, this requirement shall not apply to
a Family Home as defined in Section 414.22 of the Code of Iowa.
30.   “Farm” (agriculture) means an area which is used for the growing of the
usual farm products such as vegetables, fruits, and grains and their storage on
the area, but not including bothersome animals as defined in
Chapter 55 of this Code of Ordinances. The definition includes the operating of
such area for one or more of the above uses with the necessary accessory uses
for treating or storing the produce; provided, however, the operation of any
such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of the normal farming activity
and such accessory uses do not include the feeding of garbage or offal to
animals.
31.   “Farm machinery and equipment” means a tractor, combine, plow,
cultivator, rake, baler, corn picker, sprayer, elevator, wagon, planter, disc,
drag, spring tooth, mower, seeder, and any other implement of farm husbandry,
motorized or not, operable or not.
32.   “Fence” means an erection intended to prevent escape or intrusion or to
mark a boundary. For purposes of this chapter, a fence may be composed of
posts, wire, or vinyl or wooden boards.     
33.   Floodplain Management. The following definitions shall pertain to the
requirements of the Floodplain Management requirements contained in Section
165.22 of this chapter.
   A.   “Appurtenant structure” means a structure which is on the same parcel
of the property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which
is incidental to the use of the principal structure.
   B.   “Base flood” means the flood having one percent chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year (also commonly referred to as the “100-year
flood”).
   C.   “Base flood elevation” (BFE) means the elevation floodwaters would
reach at a particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.
   D.   “Basement” means any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or
lowest level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. Also see “lowest
floor.”
   E.   “Development” means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations or storage
of equipment or materials. “Development” does not include minor projects or
routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities, as defined in this
section. It also does not include gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling or grading.
   F.   “Enclosed area below lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest
enclosed area in a building when all the following criteria are met:
      (1)   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic
pressure during flood events with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions
of
165.22(14)(D)(1) of this chapter; and
      (2)   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled, etc.) and
used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access, parking, or
storage; and
      (3)   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one
foot above the base flood elevation; and
      (4)   The enclosed area is not a basement, as defined in this section.
   G.   “Existing construction” means any structure for which the start of
construction commenced before the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
   H.   “Existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
   I.   “Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means
the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
(including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   J.   “Factory-built home” means any structure, designed for residential use
which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed or assembled
in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation, on a
building site. For the purpose of this chapter factory-built homes include
mobile homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes; and also includes
recreational vehicles which are placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days and not fully licensed for and ready for highway use.
   K.   “Factory-built home park or subdivision” means a parcel or contiguous
parcels of land divided into two or more factory-built home lots for sale or
lease.
   L.   “500-year flood” means a flood, the magnitude of which has a two-tenths
percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year or which, on
average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once every 500 years.
   M.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or
rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
   N.   “Flood insurance rate map” (FIRM) means the official map prepared as
part of (but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study which
delineates both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community.
   O.   “Flood insurance study” (FIS) means a report published by FEMA for a
community issued along with the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map(s). The
study contains such background data as the base flood discharge and water
surface elevations that were used to prepare the FIRM.
   P.   “Floodplain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water as a result of a flood.
   Q.   “Floodplain management” means an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of
floodplains, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, floodproofing, and floodplain management regulations.
   R.   “Flood proofing” means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and
sanitary facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such
structures.
   S.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those portions of
the floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to carry
and discharge flood waters or flood flows so that confinement of flood flows to
the floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface elevation of
the base flood by more than one foot.
   T.   “Floodway fringe” means those portions of the special flood hazard area
outside the floodway.
   U.   “Highest adjacent grade” means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   V.   “Historic structure” means any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places,
maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing of
the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either: (i) by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or (ii) directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   W.   “Lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed area in a
building including a basement except when the criteria listed in the definition
of “enclosed area below lowest floor” are met.
   X.   “Maximum damage potential uses” means hospitals and like institutions;
buildings or building complexes containing documents, data, or instruments of
great public value; buildings or building complexes containing materials
dangerous to the public or fuel storage facilities; power installations needed
in emergency or other buildings or building complexes similar in nature or use.
   Y.   “Minor projects” means small development activities (except for
filling, grading, and excavating) valued at less than $500.00.
   Z.   “New construction” (new buildings, factory-built home parks) means
those structures or development for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations
adopted by the community.
   AA.   “New factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after
the effective date of the effective date of the first floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   BB.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   CC.   “Routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities” means
repairs necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do
not trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a general
improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs
include:
      (1)   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing
roofing tiles and replacing siding.
      (2)   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting,
cabinets, counter tops and similar finish work.
      (3)   Basement sealing.
      (4)   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes.
      (5)   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating, or air
conditioning systems and repairing wells or septic systems.
   DD.   “Special flood hazard area” (SFHA) means the land within a community
subject to the base flood. This land is identified on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A1-30, AE, AH, AO, AR, and/or A99.
   EE.   “Start of construction” includes substantial improvement, and means
the date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   FF.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories,
sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, grain storage facilities,
and/or other similar uses.
   GG.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage
condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated materials shall be
included in the estimated cost of repair.
   HH.   “Substantial improvement” means any improvement to a structure which
satisfies either of the following criteria:
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure
either: (i) before the start of construction of the improvement; or (ii) if the
structure has been substantially damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. The term does not, however, include any project for
improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local
health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by
the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions. The term also does not include any alteration of
a historic structure, provided the alteration will not preclude the structure’s
designation as a historic structure.
      (2)   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building
by 25 percent or more. All additions constructed after the effective date of
the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the community shall be
added to any proposed addition in determining whether the total increase in
original floor space would exceed 25 percent.
   II.   “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of
the floodplain management regulations.
   JJ.   “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to
be fully compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
34.   “Garage, commercial” means a building or portion thereof designed,
intended, or used for the equipping, servicing, selling, hiring, storing, care,
or repair of motor vehicles, and which is operated for commercial purposes.
35.   “Garage, private” means an enclosed structure intended for and used for
the parking of the private motor vehicles of the families resident upon the
premises.
36.   “Gasoline service station or convenience store” means any building or
premises used for the retail sale of liquid fuels, oils and other items
customarily associated with the sale of such products, but not for the purpose
of making other than minor repairs. Such use may also include the incidental
sale of groceries, food, household products and similar retail product sales.
37.   “Grade” means the average level of the finished surface of the ground
adjacent to the exterior walls of the building.
38.   “Granny flat” means an accessory residential structure placed on a
residential zoned lot and occupied by relatives of the owners of the lot on
which it is located.
39.   “Home occupation” means an occupation, profession, activity or use,
carried on by a member of the family residing in the premises, which is an
incidental or secondary use of the dwelling.
40.   “Junk yard” means any area where waste, discarded or salvaged materials
are bought, sold, exchanged, baled or packed, disassembled, kept, stored or
handled, including house wrecking yards, used lumber yards and places or yards
for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials and
equipment; but not including areas where such uses are conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed building, and not including automobile, tractor or
machinery wrecking and used parts yards, and the processing of used, discarded
or salvaged materials as part of manufacturing operations. Where permitted by
district regulations, salvage shall either be located within a rear yard or
fully enclosed within a building. In addition, junk yards located within 1,000
feet of a State, federal, or County highway shall obtain a current “recycler’s
license” from the Iowa Department of Transportation. Junk yards located over
1,000 feet from a State, federal, or County highway shall be screened from view
from a public street by the same screening regulations as provided by the Iowa
Department of Transportation when granting a recycler’s license.
41.   “Junk vehicle” (junk machinery) means any vehicle or portion thereof not
in running condition and/or not licensed for the current year as provided by
law and not legally placed in storage with the County Treasurer, or any other
vehicle or machinery which, because of its defective or obsolete condition, or
rotted, rusted or loose parts, or in any other way constitutes a threat to the
health and safety of the citizens and is a nuisance within the meaning of
Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa.
42.   “Kennel, dog” means any premises on which three or more dogs, six months
old or older, are kept.
43.   “Lot” means a parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum
zoning requirements for use, coverage, and area to provide such yards and other
open space as herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on a public street
and may consist of: (i) a single lot of record; (ii) a portion of a lot of
record; (iii) a combination of complete lots of record; of complete lots of
record and portions of lots of record; or of portions of lots of record; and
(iv) a parcel of land described by metes and bounds; provided that in no case
of division or combination shall any residual lot or parcel be created which
does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
44.   “Lot area” means the area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front,
side, and rear lot lines.
45.   “Lot, corner” means a lot fronting on two intersecting streets.
46.   “Lot depth” means the mean horizontal distance between the front and rear
lot lines.
47.   “Lot, interior” means a lot other than a corner lot.
48.   “Lot lines” means the lines bounding a lot.
49.   “Lot line, front” means, in the case of an interior lot abutting on only
one street, the street line of such lot. In the case of any other lot, the
front lot line is considered as the line adjacent to the street upon which the
lot has its least dimension.
50.   “Lot line, rear” means that boundary line which is opposite and most
distant from the front line.
51.   “Lot line, side” means any boundary line not a front lot line or a rear
lot line.
52.   “Lot of record” means a lot which is a part of a subdivision recorded in
the office of the County Recorder, or a lot or parcel described by metes and
bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
53.   “Lot, through” means an interior lot having frontage on two parallel or
approximately parallel streets and also known as a double fronted lot.
54.   “Lot width” means the width of a lot as measured at the required front
yard setback line.
55.   “Massage parlor” means any building, room, place or establishment, where
manipulated massage or manipulated exercise is practiced for pay upon the human
body with an emphasis on sex acts or specified anatomical areas by anyone not a
duly licensed physician, osteopath, chiropractor, registered nurse or practical
nurse operating under a physician’s direction, physical therapist, registered
speech pathologist and physical or occupational therapist who treat only
patients recommended by a licensed physician and operate only under such
physician’s direction, whether with or without the use of mechanical,
therapeutic or bathing devices. The term does not include a regular licensed
hospital, medical clinic or nursing home, duly licensed beauty parlors, or
barber shops.
56.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built structure, which is
manufactured or constructed under the authority of 42 U.S.C. § 5403 and is to
be used as a place for human habitation, which is not less than 24 feet in
width, but which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or other
device allowing it to be moved other than for the purpose of moving to a
permanent site, and which does not have permanently attached to its body or
frame any wheels or axles. A manufactured home located and installed on and
attached to a permanent foundation system shall be located on a lot and shall
be assessed and taxed as a site-built dwelling. A permanent foundation may be a
pier footing foundation system designed and constructed to be compatible with
the structure and the conditions of the site.
57.   “Mobile home” means a vehicle used, or so originally constructed, as to
permit being used as a conveyance upon the public streets or highway and duly
licensed as such, and constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy
thereof for human habitation, dwelling or sleeping place for one of more
persons. This definition refers to and includes all portable contrivances used
or intended to be used generally for living and sleeping quarters and which are
capable of being moved by their own power, towed or transported by another
vehicle. Mobile homes of less than 24 feet in width shall be located within a
mobile home park.
58.   “Mobile home converted to real estate” means a mobile home, at least 20
feet in width, which has been attached to a permanent foundation on real
estate, which has had the vehicular frame destroyed rendering it impossible to
reconvert to a mobile home, and which has been inspected by the assessor, the
mobile home title, registration, and license plates collected from the owner
and the property entered on the tax rolls of the County.
59.   “Mobile home park” or “trailer park” means any lot or portion of a lot
upon which one or more mobile homes or trailers for dwelling or sleeping
purposes are located regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such
accommodations.
60.   “Motel,” “motor court,” “motor lodge,” or “tourist court” means any
building or group of buildings containing guest rooms primarily for temporary
occupancy, and laid out to provide space for parking vehicles used by the
traveling public. Such building or group of buildings may include quarters for
the use of the operating personnel.
61.   “Motor vehicle” (automobile) means a car, station wagon, sports utility
vehicle, van, pickup (licensed for 6 tons or less), motor home, and non-
motorized trailer (40 feet or less).
62.   “Nursing home” (including convalescent and group homes) means a building
or structure having accommodations and where care is provided for invalid,
infirmed, aged, convalescent, or physically disabled or injured persons, but
not including penal or disciplinary cases.
63.   “Parking space” means a surfaced area, enclosed or unenclosed, having
space for parking and maneuvering a motor vehicle, and connected to a surfaced
driveway or aisle which affords satisfactory ingress and egress for a motor
vehicle. Space for maneuvering and parking shall not encroach upon any public
right-of-way.
64.   “Porch, unenclosed” means a roofed projection which is partially enclosed
by a building or siding material other than meshed screens.
65.   “Principal use” means the main use of land or structures as distinguished
from an accessory use.
66.   “Private parking lot” means a surfaced area used for the parking for
automobiles/motor vehicles. 
67.   “Professional office” means any building or part thereof used by one or
more persons engaged in the practice of law, accounting, architecture,
medicine, engineering or other occupation customarily considered as a
profession.
68.   “Roadside stand” means a temporary structure, unenclosed, and so designed
and constructed so the structure is easily portable or can be readily moved,
and which is adjacent to a road and used for a sale of farm products produced
or grown on the premises.
69.   “Sex acts” means any sexual contact, actual or simulated, either natural
or deviate, between two or more persons, or between a person and an animal, by
penetration of the penis into the vagina or anus, or by contact between the
mouth or tongue and genitalia or anus, or by contact between a finger of one
person and the genitalia of another, or by use of artificial sexual organs or
substitute therefor in contact with the genitalia or anus.
70.   “Sexual encounter center” means any business, agency or persons who, for
any form of consideration or gratuity, provides a place where three or more
persons may congregate, assemble or associate for the purpose of engaging in
sex acts or exposing specified anatomical areas.
71.   “Sign area” means the surface area of a sign and is computed as including
the entire area within a regular geometric form or combination of such forms
comprising all of the display area of the sign and including all of the
elements of the matter displayed. Frames and structural members not bearing
advertising matter shall not be included in computation of surface area.
72.   “Sign, exterior” means a sign which directs attention to a business,
profession, service, product, or activity sold or offered upon the premises
where such sign is located. An exterior sign may be attached flat against a
building or structure, painted on the building or structure, projecting out
from a building or structure, or erected upon the roof of a building or
structure.
73.   “Sign, freestanding or post” means any sign erected or affixed in a rigid
manner to any pole or post, and which carries any advertisement strictly
incidental and subordinate to a lawful use of the premises on which it is
located, including signs or sign devices indicating the business transacted,
services rendered or goods sold or produced on the premises by an occupant
thereof.
74.   “Specified anatomical areas” include the following: human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, and female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
75.   “Split level” means a story having not more than one half of its height
below grade. A split-level story is counted as a story for purposes of height
regulations.
76.   “Story” means that portion of a building, other than a basement, included
between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor above it, or if
there is no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it.
77.   “Story, half” means a space under a sloping roof which has the line of
intersection of roof decking and wall face not more than four feet above the
top floor level.
78.   “Street line” means the right-of-way line of a street, road, or highway.
79.   “Street, public” means a public thoroughfare more than 20 feet in width.
80.   “Structural alteration” means any replacement or changes in the type of
construction or in the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls
or partitions, columns, beams or girders, beyond ordinary repairs, and
maintenance.
81.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected with a fixed location
on the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground.
Among other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes, billboards,
decks, poster panels, and carports.
82.   “Variance” means a relaxation of the terms of this Zoning Ordinance where
such variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action of the
applicant, literal enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary and
undue hardship. Establishment or expansion of a use otherwise prohibited shall
not be allowed by variance. Relief from the terms of the Floodplain Overlay
District may be allowed under the terms of Section 
165.22 of this chapter.
83.   “Wind energy conservation system” (WECS) means any device that converts
wind power to usable energy, such as electricity or heat. This definition may
also include common names like wind charger, wind turbine, and windmill.
84.   “Yard” means an open space on the same lot with a building or structure.
In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the depth of a front yard or
the depth of a rear yard, the least distance between the lot line and the main
building shall be used. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the
width of a side yard, the least distance between the lot line and the nearest
permitted building shall be used.
85.   “Yard, front” means a yard extending across the full width of the lot and
measured between the front lot line and the building or any projection thereof,
other than the projection of uncovered steps and eaves. In the case of corner
lots, the front yard may be considered as either yard adjacent to a street. The
remaining yard adjacent to a street shall be considered a corner side yard.
86.   “Yard, rear” means a yard extending across the full width of the lot and
measured between the rear lot line and the structure or any projections other
than uncovered steps, balconies or eaves. On both corner lots and interior lots
the opposite end of the lot from the front yard shall be considered the rear
yard.
87.   “Yard, side” means a yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard
and measured between the side lot lines and the nearest building.
88.   “Zoning Administrative Officer” means the individual appointed by the
City Council to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
89.   “Zoning compliance permit” means a permit issued by the Zoning
Administrative Officer, authorizing the use of land in the manner and for the
purpose specified in the application.
90.   “Zoning lot” means a single tract of land located within a single block
which is designated by its owner or developer as a tract to be used, developed
or built upon as a unit, under single ownership. Therefore, a “zoning lot” may
be comprised of one or more lots of record, provided they are contiguous, not
separated by a street or alley, and are under single ownership.
165.02   ZONING DISTRICTS.
1.   Establishment of Districts. For the purpose and intent of this chapter,
the City is hereby divided into zoning district classifications as follows:
A-1   Agricultural District
R-1   One- and Two-Family Dwelling District
R-2   Multiple-Family Dwelling District
R-3   Mobile Home Park District
PUD   Planned Unit Residential District
C-1   Central Commercial District
C-2   Highway Commercial District
M-1   General Industrial District
2.   Boundaries and Official Map. The boundaries of these districts are
indicated and established as shown upon maps designated as the Official Zoning
Map of the City, which, with all their notations, designations, references, and
other matters shown thereon, are as much a part of this chapter as if fully
described and set forth herein. The Official Zoning Maps shall be identified by
the Mayor and attested by the City Clerk under the following words:
This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in Section
165.02 of the Clarion Municipal Code, dated this ______ day of
___________________, _______.
                                                                   
            Mayor
                                                                   
         City Administrator
Amendments, supplements, or changes of the boundaries of districts as shown on
the Official Zoning Map shall be made by an ordinance amending this chapter.
The amending ordinance shall refer to the Official Zoning Map and shall set out
the identification of the area affected by legal description and identify the
zoning district as the same exists and the new district designation applicable
to said property. Said ordinance shall, after adoption and publication, be
recorded by the City Clerk as other ordinances and a certified copy thereof be
attached to the Official Zoning Map. Such amendatory ordinance shall, however,
not repeal or reenact said map, but only amend it. The Official Zoning Map,
together with amending ordinances, shall be the final authority as to current
zoning status of land and water areas, buildings, and other structures in the
City. In the event that the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed,
lost, or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and
additions, the City Council may, by resolution, adopt a new Official Zoning Map
which shall supersede the prior Official Zoning Map. The new Official Zoning
Map may correct drafting or other errors or omissions in the prior Official
Zoning Map, but no such corrections shall have the effect of amending this
chapter or any subsequent amendment thereof.† 10
3.   Interpretation of District Boundaries. Where uncertainty exists as to
boundaries of districts as shown on the Official Zoning Map, the following
rules shall apply:
   A.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways, alleys, or other public rights-of-way shall be construed to
follow such centerlines.
   B.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall
be construed as following such lot lines.
   C.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following section lines, quarter
section lines, or quarter-quarter section lines shall be construed as following
such lines.
   D.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following City limits shall be
construed as following such City limits.
   E.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of
streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or other bodies of water shall be construed as
following such centerlines.
   F.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks.
   G.   Boundaries not capable of being determined in the previous paragraphs
shall be as dimensioned on the Official Zoning Map or if not dimensioned shall
be determined by the scale shown on the map.
4.   Annexed Territory. All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the
City shall be considered as lying in the Agricultural (A-1) District until such
classification shall have been changed by amendment.
 
Notes
10 † EDITOR’S NOTE: See NOTE at the end of this chapter for ordinances amending the
   zoning map.
165.03   AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
The intent of the Agricultural (A-1) District is to allow for the agricultural
use of certain areas until such time as streets, utilities, and community
facilities may be provided or programmed to ensure the orderly and beneficial
conversion of these lands to nonagricultural uses.
1.   Principal Uses Permitted. Only the following uses and structures are
permitted in the A-1 District.
   A.   Agriculture, including the usual agricultural buildings and structures,
but not including the raising of animals, commercial grain storage, and grain
drying facilities;
   B.   Cemeteries;
   C.   Nurseries, greenhouses, and truck gardens;
   D.   Public parks, golf courses, playground, and recreation areas, including
private, non-commercial, country clubs, golf courses, and swimming pools;
   E.   Publicly owned and operated buildings and facilities;
   F.   Wind energy conservation system;
2.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures. The following accessory uses and
structures shall be permitted, subject to Section
165.11:
   A.   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate to
the permitted uses and structures and to uses and structures permitted as
exceptions.
   B.   Home occupations.
   C.   Roadside stands for the sale of agricultural produce grown on the
premises.
   D.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work.
   E.   Essential services.
   F.   Private garage or carport.
3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. The following uses may be permitted
in the Agricultural District, subject to approval by the Board of Adjustment as
provided for in Sections
165.16 and
165.20 of this chapter.
   A.   None.
4.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to modifications contained in Section
165.11:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum lot area shall be 43,560 square feet.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width shall be 66 feet.
   C.   Front Yard: The minimum front yard shall be 15 feet.
   D.   Side Yard: The minimum side yard shall be 8 feet.
   E.   Rear Yard: The minimum rear yard shall be 15 feet.
   F.   Maximum Height: No building shall exceed a height of 2½ stories or 35
feet, unless otherwise provided.
5.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.12.
6.   Off-Street Loading. Off-street loading shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.13.
7.   Signs. Signs are permitted subjected to the provisions of
Chapter 171.
(Subsection 7 – Ord. 624 – Mar. 24 Supp.)
165.04   ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
The intent of the One-and Two-Family Residential (R-1) District is to provide
for low- to medium-density residential development with a limited number of
institutional and recreational facilities permitted.
1.   Principal Uses Permitted. Only the following principal uses and structures
shall be permitted in the R-1 District:
   A.   One- and two-family dwellings;
   B.   Churches, chapels, temples and similar places of worship;
   C.   Schools and colleges having curriculums approved by the State of Iowa;
   D.   Publicly owned and operated buildings, parks, playgrounds, golf
courses, and recreation areas;
   E.   Privately owned and operated golf courses and recreational facilities.
(Paragraph E – Ord. 626 – Mar. 24 Supp.)
2.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures. The following accessory uses and
structures shall be permitted, subject to Section
165.11:
   A.   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate to
the permitted uses and structures and to uses and structures permitted as
exceptions;
   B.   Private garage or carport;
   C.   Home occupations, provided, however, said home occupation shall not
employ more than two persons outside the family residing in the dwelling unit;
there shall be no exterior display, no exterior storage of materials and no
other exterior indication of the home occupation other than one exterior sign
mounted flush with the face of the building, which sign shall not exceed four
square feet in area; said home occupation shall not occupy more than 30 percent
of the area of the dwelling unit; and said home occupation shall produce no
offensive noise, vibration, smoke, excessive traffic or parking congestion,
dust, odors, heat or glare rendering such building or premises objectionable or
detrimental to the residential character of the neighborhood.
   D.   Essential services;
   E.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work.
3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. The following uses and structures
may be permitted in the R-1 District subject to provisions of Sections
165.16 and
165.20 of this chapter and with the approval of the Board of Adjustment:
   A.   Hospitals, rest homes, nursing homes, and convalescent homes;
   B.   Day nursery or nursery school;
   C.   Boarding or Lodging house;
   D.   Funeral homes.
   E.   Granny flat.
4.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to modifications contained in Section
165.11:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum lot area shall be:
Single-family dwelling – 8,000 square feet;
Two-family dwelling – 10,000 square feet;
Other uses – 8,000 square feet.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width shall be 66 feet.
   C.   Front Yard: The minimum front yard shall be 15 feet.
   D.   Side Yard: The minimum side yard shall be 8 feet.
   E.   Rear Yard: The minimum rear yard shall be 15 feet.
   F.   Maximum Height: No building shall exceed a height of 2½ stories or 35
feet, unless otherwise provided.
5.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.12.
6.   Off-Street Loading. Off-street loading shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.13.
7.   Signs. Signs are permitted subjected to the provisions of
Chapter 171.
(Subsection 7 – Ord. 624 – Mar. 24 Supp.)
8.   Storage of Fuel. The storage of flammable or combustible liquids in
outside above ground tanks is prohibited. The Fire Chief, or designees, will
have the authority to alter or allow installations after the consideration of
special features including but not limited to topographical conditions, nature
of occupancy, proximity to buildings, capacity of proposed tanks and degree of
fire protection to be provided and available. Any installation shall be in
compliance with State and local codes.
   A.   A violation of this subsection shall be considered a municipal
infraction punishable by a penalty of $500.00 for a person’s first violation
thereof, and a penalty of $750.00 for each repeat violation.
   B.   Liquid propane gas tanks are allowed if access to natural gas is
limited, and it is used as a primary heating source. Such tanks used as a
secondary heat source must be approved by the Fire Chief prior to and upon
installation. The Fire Chief shall have the authority to require that such
tanks be altered, repaired, or removed if they present a risk to health or
safety.
   C.   Liquid propane gas tanks under 101 lbs. used for grilling are
considered non-permanent and shall not be subject to this subsection.
165.05   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
The intent of the Multi-Family Residential (R-2) District is to provide for
living areas within the City for development of multiple-family dwellings and
single-family dwellings which are compatible in character and density with the
multiple-family residential environment.
1.   Principal Uses Permitted. Only the following principal uses and structures
shall be permitted in the R-2 District:
   A.   One-family dwellings;
   B.   Two-family dwellings (duplexes);
   C.   Multi-family dwellings;
   D.   Boarding or lodging houses;
   E.   Churches, chapels, temples and similar places of worship;
   F.   Schools and colleges having curriculums approved by the State;
   G.   Publicly owned and operated buildings, parks, playgrounds, golf
courses, and recreation areas;
   H.   Day nursery or nursery schools;
   I.   Privately owned and operated golf courses and recreational facilities.
(Paragraph I – Ord. 626 – Mar. 24 Supp.)
2.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures. The following accessory uses and
structures shall be permitted, subject to Section
165.11:
   A.   Private garage or carport;
   B.   Home occupations, provided, however, said home occupation shall not
employ more than two persons outside the family residing in the dwelling unit;
there shall be no exterior display, no exterior storage of materials and no
other exterior indication of the home occupation other than one exterior sign
mounted flush with the face of the building, which sign shall not exceed four
square feet in area; said home occupation shall not occupy more than 30 percent
of the area of the dwelling unit; and said home occupation shall produce no
offensive noise, vibration, smoke, excessive traffic or parking congestion,
dust, odors, heat or glare rendering such building or premises objectionable or
detrimental to the residential character of the neighborhood.
   C.   Essential services;
   D.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work;
   E.   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate to
the permitted uses and structures permitted as exceptions.
3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. The following uses and structures
may be permitted in the R-2 District subject to provisions of Sections
165.16 and
165.20 of this chapter with the approval of the Board of Adjustment:
   A.   Rest homes, nursing homes, and convalescent homes.
   B.   Funeral homes.
4.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to modifications contained in Section
165.11:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum lot area shall be:
One-family dwelling –8,000 square feet;
Two-family dwelling –10,000 square feet;
Multi-family dwelling –3,000 square feet per dwelling unit, but in no case less
than a total of 12,000 square feet.
   B.   Other uses – 8,000 square feet;
   C.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width shall be 66 feet.
   D.   From Yard: The minimum front yard setback shall be 15 feet.
   E.   Side Yard: The minimum side yard setback shall be 8 feet.
   F.   Rear Yard: The minimum rear yard shall be 15 feet.
   G.   Maximum Height: No building shall exceed a height of 2½ stories or 35
feet unless otherwise provided.
5.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.12.
6.   Off-Street Loading. Off-street loading shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.13.
7.   Signs. Signs are permitted subjected to the provisions of
Chapter 171.
(Subsection 7 – Ord. 624 – Mar. 24 Supp.)
8.   Storage of Fuel. The storage of flammable or combustible liquids in
outside above ground tanks is prohibited. The Fire Chief, or designees, will
have the authority to alter or allow installations after the consideration of
special features including but not limited to topographical conditions, nature
of occupancy, proximity to buildings, capacity of proposed tanks and degree of
fire protection to be provided and available. Any installation shall be in
compliance with State and local codes.
   A.   A violation of this subsection shall be considered a municipal
infraction punishable by a penalty of $500.00 for a person’s first violation
thereof, and a penalty of $750.00 for each repeat violation.
   B.   Liquid propane gas tanks are allowed if access to natural gas is
limited, and it is used as a primary heating source. Such tanks used as a
secondary heat source must be approved by the Fire Chief prior to and upon
installation. The Fire Chief shall have the authority to require that such
tanks be altered, repaired, or removed if they present a risk to health or
safety.
   C.   Liquid propane gas tanks under 101 lbs. used for grilling are
considered non-permanent and shall not be subject to this subsection.
165.06   MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT.
The Mobile Home Park (R-3) District shall provide for mobile home developments
in areas of the community where their use is compatible with existing and
future residential areas. This district shall be well served by arterial
streets to provide adequate access and planned development that is compatible
with the character of neighboring uses.
1.   Principal Uses Permitted. Only the following principal uses and structures
shall be permitted in the R-3 District.
   A.   Mobile homes located within planned mobile home parks in accordance to
provisions of State Statutes and any City Regulation;
   B.   Publicly owned and operated buildings, parks, playgrounds, and
recreation areas;
   C.   Day nursery or nursery schools.
2.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures. The following accessory uses and
structures shall be permitted, subject to Section
165.11:
   A.   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate to
the permitted uses and structures and to uses and structures permitted as
exceptions;
   B.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work;
   C.   Essential services;
   D.   Home occupations, provided, however, said home occupation shall not
employ more than two persons outside the family residing in the dwelling unit;
there shall be no exterior display, no exterior storage of materials and no
other exterior indication of the home occupation other than one exterior sign
mounted flush with the face of the building, which sign shall not exceed four
square feet in area; said home occupation shall not occupy more than 30 percent
of the area of the dwelling unit; and said home occupation shall produce no
offensive noise, vibration, smoke, excessive traffic or parking congestion,
dust, odors, heat or glare rendering such building or premises objectionable or
detrimental to the residential character of the neighborhood.
3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. The following uses may be permitted
in R-3 Districts subject to approval by the Board of Adjustment as provided for
in Sections
165.16 and
165.20 of this chapter.
   A.   None.
4.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to modifications contained in Section
165.11:
   A.   Minimum lot area for mobile home park:
      (1)   The minimum park area shall be two acres.
      (2)   A perimeter buffer strip of 25 feet shall be provided.
      (3)   Each mobile home located within a Mobile Home Park shall be located
on a sub-lot containing at least 3,000 square feet and shall measure at least
40 by 75 feet.
      (4)   Mobile homes shall be located on each space so there will be at
least a 20-foot clearance between each mobile home, a 5-foot open space between
the mobile home including any permanently enclosed appendage, and any driveway,
walkway, or mobile home space boundary, and a 10-foot open space at the rear of
the mobile home.
B.   Plan required:
      (1)   Each petition for a change to the R-3 zoning classification shall
be accompanied by a plan. Said plan shall show each mobile home space, the
water, electrical and sewer lines serving each mobile home space, the location
of garbage cans, water hydrants, service buildings, driveways, walkways,
recreation areas, required yards, parking facilities, lighting, and
landscaping. The plan shall be considered by the Planning and Zoning Commission
and the Council, who may approve or disapprove said plan or require such
changes as are necessary to effectuate the intent of this chapter.
      (2)   The plan shall show how the mobile home park is to be provided with
emergency storm shelters to accommodate all park residents in the case of
severe storms and natural disasters.
   C.   Section
146.03 of this Code of Ordinances provides regulations for foundations, slabs,
and hook-ups.
5.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.12.
6.   Off-Street Loading. Off-street loading shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.13.
7.   Signs. Signs are permitted subjected to the provisions of
Chapter 171.
(Subsection 7 – Ord. 624 – Mar. 24 Supp.)
8.   Storage of Fuel. The storage of flammable or combustible liquids in
outside above ground tanks is prohibited. The Fire Chief, or designees, will
have the authority to alter or allow installations after the consideration of
special features including but not limited to topographical conditions, nature
of occupancy, proximity to buildings, capacity of proposed tanks and degree of
fire protection to be provided and available. Any installation shall be in
compliance with State and local codes.
   A.   A violation of this subsection shall be considered a municipal
infraction punishable by a penalty of $500.00 for a person’s first violation
thereof, and a penalty of $750.00 for each repeat violation.
   B.   Liquid propane gas tanks are allowed if access to natural gas is
limited, and it is used as a primary heating source. Such tanks used as a
secondary heat source must be approved by the Fire Chief prior to and upon
installation. The Fire Chief shall have the authority to require that such
tanks be altered, repaired, or removed if they present a risk to health or
safety.
   C.   Liquid propane gas tanks under 101 lbs. used for grilling are
considered non-permanent and shall not be subject to this subsection.
165.07   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT (PUD).
The Planned Unit Development (PUD) District is intended to encourage a more
efficient use of land and public services and greater amenity by allowing,
under certain circumstance, a more flexible means of land development or
redevelopment than is otherwise afforded through the strict enforcement of the
zoning requirements of other use districts for lot-by-lot development. Although
PUD developments may appear to deviate in certain aspects from a literal
interpretation of the zoning and subdivision ordinances, the PUD and its
accompanying guidelines are intended to allow freedom of design in order to
promote developments which will be an asset to the City by equaling or
surpassing the quality of developments resulting from the application of more
conventional zoning regulations.
1.   Permitted Uses. Each PUD shall be comprised of one or more use types,
including residential, commercial, industrial and civic. In each PUD,
permitted, accessory and conditional uses shall be specified on the Plan.
2.   Bulk Regulations.
   A.   Minimum Lot Size: The minimum site area for establishment of a PUD
district shall be 10,000 square feet.
   B.   Floor Area Ratio: The total floor area for residential developments
shall not exceed 25 percent of the area of the lot. The total floor area for
all other developments shall not exceed 75 percent of the area of the lot.
3.   General Provisions.
   A.   Ownership: A tract of land to be developed as a PUD shall be under the
control of a single owner, or a group of land owners, acting through a
corporation, partnership or joint venture where each owner agrees in advance to
be bound by the conditions and regulations which will be effective with the
district.
   B.   Plan Preparation: The applicant is required to have the necessary
documents and supporting plans prepared by a registered landscape architect,
engineer, architect or certified planner.
   C.   More than one building may be placed in one platted or recorded lot in
any PUD.
   D.   No building permit shall be granted for any building on land for which
a plan for a PUD is in the process of City review or which does not conform to
the approved final plan.
   E.   Occupancy and use of buildings and structures in a PUD may be permitted
when the buildings and structures have been completed to the satisfaction of
the City, and the access drives and parking areas are sufficiently completed to
support emergency vehicles at all times and are kept in a dust free condition.
Final surfacing of streets, roadways and parking areas and landscaping may be
deferred over winter months upon written application to and approval by the
City.
   F.   Approval of the PUD shall not relieve the owner in any way from
complying with the City and State regulation which dictate circumstances under
which subdivision plats must be approved.
   G.   Covenants, Easements and Restrictions. The final plan will contain such
proposed covenants, easements and other provisions relating to the bulk,
location and density of such residential units, non-residential uses and public
facilities as are necessary for the welfare of the PUD and are consistent with
the best interests of the City.
   H.   Streets, Utilities, Services and Public Facilities. The uniqueness of
each proposal for a PUD requires the specifications and standards for streets,
utilities and services may be subject to minor modifications from the
specifications and standards established in this and other City Ordinances
governing their construction. The City Council may, therefore, waive or modify
the specifications or standards where it is found that they are not required in
the interests of the residents or of the entire City.
   I.   Open Space: A primary function of the PUD provision is to encourage
development which will preserve and enhance the natural characteristics of a
site, while allowing adequate intensity of development. In evaluating a PUD
proposal, this objective will be a basic consideration in granting approval or
denial.
   J.   Architectural style of buildings shall not solely be a basis for denial
of approval of a plan. However, the overall appearance and compatibility of
individual building to other site elements or to surrounding development will
be primary consideration in the review process.
   K.   The Planning Commission shall review each PUD at least once a year
until the development has been completed and shall make a report to the City
Council on the status of the development in each PUD district. The status shall
be reported to the City Council. If the City Council finds that insufficient
progress is made toward completion of a 24-month period following notification
to the owner of such insufficient progress, the property shall automatically
revert to the zoning district existing on the property immediately prior to PUD
zoning approval.
4.   Approval Procedures. The following procedures and requirements shall be
met for the establishment of a PUD district:
   A.   Pre-Application Conference: Prior to filing an application for
preliminary PUD plan approval, the applicant shall submit a concept plan and
review it with the Planning Commission. This plan shall show the generalized
overall plan for development of the proposed PUD area.
   B.   Preliminary Plan Approval: Following review of the concept plan, the
applicant shall submit an application for preliminary plan approval to the
City. Such application shall be deemed a petition for rezoning to a PUD
classification. A fee in the amount established by the City, in addition to the
following information, drawings and data, shall accompany the application:
      (1)   The location, size and legal description of the site.
      (2)   The nature of the developer’s and landowner’s interests in the land
proposed to be developed.
      (3)   The total number of living units and the overall density of the
project defined as the number of living units per acre.
      (4)   The location and boundaries of proposed land uses, if more than one
is proposed.
      (5)   Approximate height and location of buildings and other structures.
      (6)   Form of organization proposed to own and maintain public or private
open space.
      (7)   Preliminary layout of the proposed systems for the collection and
treatment of sanitary wastes and disposition of storm water.
      (8)   Proposed source and distribution of water facilities.
      (9)   The substance of covenants, easements or other restrictions
proposed to be imposed upon the use of the land, buildings and structures,
including proposed easements for utilities.
      (10)   The provisions for parking of motor vehicles, including the total
number and location of public and private parking spaces.
      (11)   The location and width of proposed public and private streets and
thoroughfares.
      (12)   A schedule showing the proposed phasing and time limitations
within which applications for final approval of all phases and construction of
improvements within phases of the PUD are intended to be filed.
      (13)   Generalized preliminary grading plan, but not to include detailed
final grades or elevations.
      (14)   Generalized landscaping plan, but not to include detailed planting
list of planting plan.
      (15)   Generalized exterior building elevations or façades.
      (16)   All maps and diagrams shall be of sufficient scale and size to
permit easy interpretation.
      (17)   North arrow and graphic scale shall be provided with all maps or
sketches.
The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review and shall make recommendation
to the City Council upon the application for preliminary approval within 60
days following receipt of all required plans and documentation. The City
Council shall hold a public hearing, following the public notice procedures of
zoning change requests, and shall take final action on the preliminary plan
within a reasonable time following receipt of the Planning Commission’s
recommendations.
If the preliminary plan is approved, such approval shall constitute a rezoning
of the property as designated on the plan and the applicant shall proceed to
final plan approval. If the application for preliminary plan is denied, the
applicant must submit another application and fee to receive consideration.
   C.   Final Plan Approval. Within one year following City Council approval of
the preliminary plan, an application for final plan approval shall be submitted
to the City. Such final plan shall include either the entire site included in
the preliminary plan or a portion thereof in accordance with the phasing plan
approved. Subsequent final plan submittals shall be submitted in accordance
with the approved phasing plan. A fee in the amount established by the City, in
addition to the following information shall accompany each application.
      (1)   A plan with locations of all structures including placement, size
and type with topography showing two foot contour intervals.
      (2)   Elevations or sections through the site which will best indicate
the relationship of the building with the various terrain features and site
elements.
      (3)   Detailed grading and drainage plan at two foot contour intervals.
      (4)   Utility plan for all public utilities.
      (5)   Detailed landscape plan.
      (6)   Deed restrictions, covenants, agreements, by-laws of proposed
homeowner’s association and other documents controlling the use of property,
type of construction or development or the activities of future residents.
      (7)   The procedure for approving and recording the plats shall be
followed if the final plan involves platting or division of land or the
platting of public streets.
      (8)   Any other information which is necessary to fully represent the
intentions of the preliminary plan.
The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider the final plan and make
recommendation to the City Council within 60 days following submission of the
required material. The City Council shall make its consideration and
determination within a reasonable time following receipt of the Planning
Commission’s recommendation. In granting final approval of the application, the
Planning and Zoning Commission and the City Council shall determine whether the
PUD district regulations and standards, and compliance with the approved
preliminary plans, have been satisfied based on the final plans.
   D.   Changes. Changes in the final plan involving the location and alignment
of structures not to exceed 10 feet in any direction and other minor revisions
in the shape of structures may be authorized by the City for good cause shown
provided the changes are within the maximum allowable floor area limits, are in
harmony with the intent of the approved plans as to uses and densities of use
and the architectural style has been approved in writing by the PUD’s homeowner
association or other ownership body. All other changes shall be made only after
following the approval procedures provided for in this section.
165.08   CENTRAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
The intent of the Central Commercial (C-1) District is to provide for a
commercial area to serve the shopping needs of the trade area and to permit
uses which will strengthen the central business district as the center of
trade, service, government, and cultural activities.
1.   Principal Uses Permitted. Only the following principal uses and structures
shall be permitted in the C-1 District:
   A.   Antique shops.
   B.   Art and hobby shops.
   C.   Auto parts store.
   D.   Automobile sales and service.
   E.   Bakery, retail.
   F.   Banks, savings and loans, including drive-ins.
   G.   Barber shop, beauty parlor.
   H.   Billiard or pool hall.
   I.   Bookstore.
   J.   Catering.
   K.   Clothing or apparel store.
   L.   Convention building for private display.
   M.   Dairy store.
   N.   Day nursery or nursery school.
   O.   Department store.
   P.   Drug store.
   Q.   Dry goods and notions store.
   R.   Eating and drinking establishments.
   S.   Electrical equipment and appliance stores.
   T.   Florist shop.
   U.   Furniture store.
   V.   Gasoline service station or convenience store.
   W.   Gift shop.
   X.   Grocery store.
   Y.   Gymnasium, bowling alleys, dance studios, and other similar
establishments.
   Z.   Fraternities and social clubs.
   AA.   Hardware store.
   BB.   Heating and air conditioning sales.
   CC.   Jewelry store.
   DD.   Laundry facility.
   EE.   Multi-family residential uses, provided that such uses not be in the
first, ground, or basement floor of any structure.
(Paragraph EE – Ord. 626 – Mar. 24 Supp.)
   FF.   Office equipment store.
   GG.   Optical goods store.
   HH.   Paint, lumber, and building supplies store.
   II.   Photography and camera shops.
   JJ.   Plumbing, heating, sheet metal, and woodworking shops.
   KK.   Publicly owned buildings.
   LL.   Printing, newspaper, commercial.
   MM.   Private parking lots.
   NN.   Professional offices.
   OO.   Retail pet shop.
   PP.   Shoe store and repair shop.
   QQ.   Sporting goods store.
   RR.   Theater.
   SS.   Upholstery shop.
   TT.   The manufacturing and distribution of beer and liquor.
2.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures. The following accessory uses and
structures shall be permitted, subject to Section
165.11:
   A.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work.
   B.   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate to
the permitted uses and to uses and structures permitted as exceptions.
   C.   Essential services.
3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. The following uses and structures
may be permitted in the C-1 District subject to provisions of Sections
165.16 and
165.20 of this chapter and with the approval of the Board of Adjustment.
   A.   None.
4.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to modifications contained in Section
165.11.
   A.   Lot Area: No minimum lot area shall be required.
   B.   Lot Width: No minimum lot width shall be required.
   C.   Front Yard: No minimum front yard shall be required.
   D.   Side Yard: No minimum side yard shall be required, except when
adjoining an “R” District, in which case eight feet shall be provided.
   E.   Rear Yard: No minimum rear yard is required except when adjoining an
“R” District, in which case a rear yard of 15 feet shall be provided.
   F.   Maximum Height: No building shall exceed a height of four stories or 45
feet unless otherwise provided. 
5.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.12.
6.   Off-Street Loading. Off-street loading shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.13.
7.   Signs. Signs are permitted subjected to the provisions of
Chapter 171.
(Subsection 7 – Ord. 624 – Mar. 24 Supp.)
8.   Improvements Within Central Commercial District. To promote and preserve
the historic character within the Central Commercial District, all exterior
improvements to any structure located within the Central Commercial District,
or any newly constructed structures located within the Central Commercial
District, shall comply with the following design standards:
   A.   Any alterations to an existing structure within the Central Commercial
District that is historic in nature shall maintain or restore historic façade
proportions and alignments, including, but not limited to, façade elements such
as storefront glazing, window proportions and sizes, cornices, parapets, and
first- and second-story elevations.
   B.   Any alterations to an existing structure within the Central Commercial
District that is historic in nature shall remove any materials that hide,
conceal, or mask existing upper story windows.
   C.   Any new construction within the Central Commercial District shall be so
designed so that the façade has historic features and qualities so as to be in
alignment with the adjacent structures' façades. Additionally, new construction
shall be built to the lot line, where allowable, along primary façade edges to
maintain historic street edge conditions.
   D.   The following materials shall not be used in any alterations to an
existing structure or newly-constructed structure located within the Central
Commercial District:
      (1)   Concrete masonry units (i.e. concrete blocks or cinder blocks) as
primary façade material;
      (2)   Synthetic turf, AstroTurf, or similar indoor-outdoor carpeting;
      (3)   Vinyl or metal siding, sheeting, or otherwise;
      (4)   Exterior paint that would not be appropriate to the historic or
architectural style of said structure or district or would not compliment the
building and its surroundings. Overly bright and obtrusive colors shall not be
allowed.
165.09   HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
The regulations set forth in this section, or as set forth in this Zoning
Ordinance when referred to in this section, are the regulations in the
Commercial (C-2) District. The intent of the Commercial District is to
establish the location of areas best suited to the needs of highway-related
businesses whose primary function is catering to traffic generated by the
adjacent roadway. These uses are characterized by the need for larger lot sizes
and the need to supply their own off-street parking. A building or premises in
said district shall be used for the following purposes.
1.   Principal Uses Permitted. Only the following principal uses and structures
shall be permitted in the C-2 District:
   A.   Academy for riding, dancing, etc.
   B.   Auditorium, exhibition hall, club.
   C.   Automobile service station.
   D.   Automobile sales and service.
   E.   Bowling alley.
   F.   Car wash.
   G.   Carpentry shop.
   H.   Commercial nurseries and greenhouses.
   I.   Commercial recreation or amusement.
   J.   Day nursery or nursery school.
   K.   Discount department store.
   L.   Drive-in establishment.
   M.   Dry cleaning and coin operated laundry.
   N.   Eating and drinking establishments.
   O.   Furniture and appliance stores.
   P.   Garden supplies stores.
   Q.   Gasoline service station or convenience store.
   R.   Hay, grain, feed, seed, retail.
   S.   Lumber and building materials.
   T.   Mobile homes and recreational vehicle sales.
   U.   Motels and motor lodges.
   V.   Private clubs and fraternal organizations.
   W.   Private parking lots.
   X.   Professional office.
   Y.   Publicly owned buildings.
   Z.   Retail pet shop and veterinarian.
   AA.   Sign painting or manufacture.
   BB.   Supermarkets, grocery store.
   CC.   Wood working shop.
   DD.   The manufacturing and distribution of beer and liquor.
2.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures. The following accessory uses and
structures shall be permitted, subject to Section
165.11:
   A.   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate to
the permitted uses and structures and to uses and structures permitted as
exceptions;
   B.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work;
   C.   Essential services.
3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. The following uses and structures
may be permitted in the C-2 District subject to provisions of Sections
165.16 and
165.20 of this chapter and with the approval of the Board of Adjustment.
   A.   Auto Body Repair shop, provided that all repair work shall be completed
within an enclosed building and all storage of damaged vehicles and body parts
shall occur within a building or screened from view within a fence or wall
enclosure.
   B.   Underground storage of flammable liquids, not to exceed 25,000 gallons
and provided it is located at least 200 feet from any “R” District. Above
ground storage of flammable liquids shall be in accordance with current
regulation of the State Fire Marshal and any applicable requirements of the
Clarion Fire Department.
   C.   Adult entertainment businesses.
4.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to modifications contained in Section
165.11:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum lot area shall be 10,000 square feet.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width shall be 100 feet.
   C.   Front Yard: The minimum front yard shall be 15 feet.
   D.   Side Yard: No minimum side yard shall be required, except when
adjoining an “R” District, in which case eight feet shall be provided.
   E.   Rear Yard: No minimum rear yard is required except when adjoining an
“R” District in which case a rear yard of 15 feet shall be provided.
   F.   Maximum Height: No building shall exceed a height of two and one-half
stories or 35 feet unless otherwise provided.
5.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.12.
6.   Off-Street Loading. Off-street loading shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.13.
7.   Signs. Signs are permitted subjected to the provisions of
Chapter 171.
(Subsection 7 – Ord. 624 – Mar. 24 Supp.)
165.10   GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
The intent of the General Industrial (M-1) District is to provide space for
certain commercial and a wide range of industrial uses and structures which are
able to meet certain performance standards to protect nearby non-industrial
uses from undesirable environmental conditions.
1.   Principal Uses Permitted. Only the following principal uses and structures
shall be permitted in the M-1 District, except those uses which by reason of
the emission of odor, excessive congestion, dust, fumes, smoke, noise and other
obnoxious characteristics would be injurious to the public health, safety and
general welfare of the community:
   A.   Assembly or fabrication of metal, rubber, cloth, plastic, stone,
leather, wood, or similar raw materials.
   B.   Auto service, assembly, and repair.
   C.   Beverage bottling or processing.
   D.   Blacksmith.
   E.   Cement warehousing and mixing.
   F.   Feed mixing.
   G.   Fertilizer mixing and storage.
   H.   Food processing, but not including packing or rendering plants.
   I.   Grain storage elevators.
   J.   Hatchery.
   K.   Lumber yard.
   L.   Moving company.
   M.   Private parking lots.
   N.   Produce warehouse.
   O.   Publicly owned buildings.
   P.   Transfer company.
   Q.   Warehouse.
2.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures. The following accessory uses and
structures shall be permitted, subject to Section
165.11:
   A.   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate to
the permitted uses and structures and to uses and structures permitted as
exceptions;
   B.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work;
   C.   Essential services;
   D.   Day nursery or nursery schools provided by an employer for the benefit
of employees working on the premises.
3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. The following uses and structures
may be permitted in the M-1 District subject to provisions of Sections
165.16 and
165.20 of this chapter and with the approval of the Board of Adjustment:
   A.   Dairy products manufacture;
   B.   Explosive manufacture;
   C.   Fertilizer manufacture;
   D.   Gas manufacture;
   E.   Manufacture or smelting of metal, rubber, plastic, stone, leather, or
wood products from basic raw materials;
   F.   Meat packing plants;
   G.   Salvage or junk yard;
   H.   Stockyard;
   I.   Transmitters, towers, receiver equipment;
   J.   Underground storage of flammable liquids, not to exceed 25,000 gallons
and provided it is located at least 200 feet from any “R” District. Above
ground storage of flammable liquids shall be in accordance with current
regulation of the State Fire Marshal and any applicable requirements of the
Clarion Fire Department.
4.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to modifications contained in Section
165.11:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum lot area shall be 10,000 square feet.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width shall be 100 feet.
   C.   Front Yard: The minimum front yard shall be 15 feet.
   D.   Side Yard: No minimum side yard shall be required, except when
adjoining an “R” District, in which case eight feet shall be provided.
   E.   Rear Yard: No minimum rear yard is required except when adjoining an
“R” District in which case a rear yard of 15 feet shall be provided.
   F.   Maximum Height: No building shall exceed a height of 2½ stories or 35
feet unless otherwise provided.
5.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.12.
6.   Off-Street Loading. Off-street loading shall be provided in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.13.
7.   Signs. Signs are permitted subjected to the provisions of
Chapter 171.
(Subsection 7 – Ord. 624 – Mar. 24 Supp.)
165.11   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
The regulations set forth in this section qualify, supplement, or modify
regulations as otherwise set forth elsewhere in this chapter.
1.   Lot Area and Width. Any lot of record at the time of passage of this
chapter having less area or width than herein required may be used for a
single-family dwelling where such uses are permitted as provided in this
chapter; provided, however:
   A.   A lot of record at the time of passage of the ordinance codified in
this chapter having a lot width of 66 feet or less shall maintain the required
side yard on each side of the dwelling, but such yard shall not be less than
five feet.
   B.   A lot of record at the time of passage of ordinance codified in this
chapter having a lot depth of 100 feet or less may have the required rear yard
reduced to not less than 12 feet.
2.   Yards.
   A.   Buildings on through lots shall provide the required front yard minimum
requirements on both street sides and shall follow the required side yard
minimum requirements on both non-street sides as outlined in the applicable
zoning regulations.
   B.   Buildings on corner lots shall follow the required front yard minimum
requirements on both street sides and shall follow the required side yard
minimum requirements on both non-street sides as outlined in the applicable
zoning regulations.
3.   Use of Public Right-of-Way. No portion of the public road, street, or
alley right-of-way shall be used for display purposes or to provide any parking
or loading space required by this chapter. Cars shall not be parked between the
curb (or edge of the street where there is no curb) and the adjacent property
line.
4.   Temporary Building. Temporary buildings with construction work may be
permitted in any district during the period that the construction work is in
progress, but such temporary buildings shall be removed within 30 days after
completion or abandonment of the construction work.
5.   Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures. In any Zoning District which
specifically allows accessory uses and structures, those accessory uses and
structures customarily incidental to that of the main building may be erected
or established as permitted, provided they comply with the following:
   A.   An accessory use or structure with an inside floor area of 120 square
feet or less and erected on a permanent foundation, is permitted in a side or
rear yard on the same lot with the principal use, but shall not be closer than
four feet to any side or rear lot line, and shall not be located within five
feet of any alley line. Any accessory use or structure with a floor area larger
than 120 square feet shall be treated as a principal use for setback purposes.
No portion of the accessory use or structure, including roof eaves, shall
extend across the private property line. No accessory use or structure shall be
located within a front yard.
   B.   An accessory use or structure, regardless of size, attached to or
connected to the principal use by a breezeway, awning, canopy, or other similar
structure shall be considered to be a part of the principal use and shall meet
the yard requirements of the principal use. ·
   C.   An accessory use or structure located within a side or rear yard of any
A or R (excluding R-2) Zoning District shall not be larger than 1,200 square
feet. An accessory use or structure located within a side or rear yard of any
R-2 zoning district, where a multi-family dwelling exists as a principal use,
shall not be larger than 1,200 square feet or shall not be larger than 200
square feet per livable unit in the principal use, whichever is greater. If
more than one accessory use or structure is located within a side or rear yard
of any A or R (excluding R-2) Zoning District the total area of all the
accessory uses or structures shall not be larger than 1,200 square feet. If
more than one accessory use or structure is located within a side or rear yard
of any R-2 Zoning District, where a multi-family dwelling exists as a principal
use, the total area of all the accessory uses or structures shall not be larger
than 1,200 square feet or shall not be larger than 200 square feet per livable
unit in the principal use, whichever is greater.
   D.   The construction of any accessory use or structure shall not precede
the construction of the principal use on the same property. Further, no
accessory use or structure shall be allowed to remain on a property for which a
principal use should cease to exist.
   E.   An accessory use or structure in any A or R Zoning District shall not
have sidewalls constructed in excess of 12 feet and shall not exceed the height
of the principal use.
   F.   An accessory use or structure shall not be used as living quarters.
   G.   Satellite television reception discs or antennas shall be considered an
accessory use or structure and shall not be located within a front yard.
   H.   An accessory use or structure with an inside floor area of 120 square
feet or more shall be constructed with exterior appearances, style, and design
to conform and match the principal use. This shall include, but not be limited
to, the color of the exterior walls, the roof line and angles, and size and
look of windows.
6.   Building Height. The height regulations shall not apply to television and
radio towers, church spires, belfries, monuments, farm buildings, tanks, water
and fire towers, stage towers or scenery lofts, cooling towers, grain
elevators, ornamental towers and spires, chimneys, elevator bulkheads, drilling
rigs, conveyors, flagpoles, and other pertinent mechanical apparatus which may
be erected to any height not in conflict with any other applicable regulations.
7.   Awnings. Awnings shall not extend into public rights-of-way more than four
feet. Within a public right-of-way an awning must have at least eight feet of
clearance from the ground surface.
8.   Visibility at Intersections. On any corner lot in all districts except the
C-1 district, there is established a traffic visibility zone at the
intersection of two or more streets. The traffic visibility zone shall include
that part of a corner lot that is within the area bounded by the intersecting
street right-of-way lines and a diagonal line intersecting said street right-
of-way lines at a distance of 20 feet from the corner (the point of
intersection of the right-of-way lines of two intersecting streets). In any
traffic visibility zone, no fence, structure, earth bank, hedge, planting or
other obstruction shall be erected, planted or maintained which materially
impedes vision in the visibility zone between the heights of three feet and 10
feet above the established curb grade.
9.   No building or structure shall be erected, converted enlarged,
reconstructed or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used
which does not comply will all the district regulations for the district in
which the building or land is located.
10.   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of the regulations of this
chapter shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum required. No
part of a yard or other open space, or off-street parking or loading space
provided for any building, structure or use for the purpose of complying with
the provision of this chapter shall be included as part of a yard, open space
or off-street parking or loading space required under this chapter for another
building, structure or use.
11.   Every building hereafter erected or subject to structural alteration
shall be located on a lot as herein defined and in no case shall there be more
than one main building on one lot unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
12.   Fences. A fence shall not be considered a structure for the purposes of
this chapter. No fence in a required front yard or corner side yard shall
exceed four feet in height. No fence in a required side or rear yard shall
exceed six feet in height.
165.12   OFF-STREET PARKING.
After the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter there shall
be provided at the time any new building or structure is erected off-street
parking spaces in accordance with the requirements set forth herein:
1.   General Provisions:
   A.   In all districts the “tree berm” (that area between the lot line and
the curb or the edge of the driven portion of the street where there is no
curb) may not be used to satisfy the off-street parking requirements of this
section. An exception will be made for multiple-family units within the R-
2 District that exist at the time of the passage of the zoning ordinance.
   B.   Except in the Central Commercial (C-1) District, all buildings,
structures, and uses of lands shall provide accessory parking as required under
this section.
   C.   In nonresidential districts all yard areas may be used to satisfy the
off-street parking requirements.
   D.   In residential districts all yard areas may be used to satisfy the off-
street parking requirements.
   E.   All required parking spaces shall be at least 165 square feet in size
and shall be served by a drive aisle adequate in width to vehicle access to the
parking space. Drive aisles shall be at least 24 feet in width for 90 degree
parking stalls, 17 feet in width for 60 degree parking stalls, and 14 feet in
width for 45 degree parking stalls.
2.   Off-Street Parking Requirements. At the time of construction, alteration,
moving in, enlargement of a structure or building, or change in the use of the
land, off-street parking spaces shall be provided, constructed, and maintained
for all uses as follows:
   A.   Residential or multiple-family – two spaces per dwelling unit;
   B.   Mobile Home Park – two spaces per mobile home;
   C.   Hotel and Motel – one space per lodging unit;
   D.   Nursing homes, retirement centers, rest homes, or similar uses – one
space for every four patient beds;
   E.   Places of public assembly such as auditoriums, theaters, stadiums,
funeral homes, churches, community hall, public buildings, etc. – the greater
of one space for every four seats or one space per 500 square feet of gross
floor area;
   F.   Retail sales and service uses such as stores, restaurants, taverns,
banks, professional offices, etc. – one space per 300 square feet of gross
floor area;
   G.   Manufacturing, wholesaling, warehousing, and similar uses – one space
for every two employees in the largest working shift;
   H.   Salvage yards – one space per 1,000 square feet of display or floor
area.
165.13   OFF-STREET LOADING.
At the time of construction, alteration, or enlargement of a structure or
building, off-street loading areas shall be provided and maintained for all
uses as follows:
1.   One 1,000-square-foot off-street loading area shall be provided for each
use, building, or structure of a size between 5,000 and 20,000 square feet. For
larger uses, buildings, and structures, one 1,000-square-foot off-street
loading area shall be provided for each additional 20,000 square feet or
fraction thereof.
2.   Screening by Residential Districts. Where the off-street loading space
borders a Residential District it shall be set back five feet and shall be
effectively screen planted.
165.14   SIGNS.
(Repealed by Ordinance No. 624 – Mar. 24 Supp.)
165.15   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES.† 11
1.   No person shall cause or permit the establishment of any adult
entertainment business as defined in Section
165.01 in any district zoned for residential use or within 1,000 feet from
another business, school, church, public park, public playground, public plaza,
day nursery, day care center, nursery school, regularly scheduled school bus
stop, or any dwelling (one-family, two-family or multiple dwelling).
2.   The establishment of an adult entertainment business shall include the
opening of such business as a new business, the relocation of such business, or
the conversion of an existing business location to any of the uses described as
an adult entertainment business in Section
165.01. Measurement of the 1,000 foot restriction shall be taken on a direct
line from the property line of such adult entertainment business to the point
on the property line of such other business, school, church, public park,
public playground, public plaza, day nurseries, day care center, nursery
school, regularly scheduled school bus stop, or any dwelling (one-family, two-
family or multiple dwelling).
3.   All buildings used for adult entertainment business shall have their
openings, entries, windows, etc., constructed, located, covered, or screened in
such a manner as to prevent a view into the interior of such building from any
pedestrian sidewalk, walkway, street, or other public or semi-public area.
Advertisements, displays, or other promotional materials shall not be shown or
exhibited so as to be visible to the public from the pedestrian sidewalks,
walkways, or other public or semi-public area.
 
Notes
11 † EDITOR’S NOTE: See also
   Chapter 124 of this Code of Ordinances.
165.16   SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES.
1.   Procedures and Requirements. Allowable special exception uses may be
permitted, enlarged, or altered upon application for a special exception use
permit in accordance with the rules and procedures of the Board of Adjustment.
The Board of Adjustment will grant or deny a special exception use permit in
accordance with the standards set forth herein and with the intent and purpose
of this chapter. In granting a special exception use permit, the Board of
Adjustment may prescribe and impose appropriate conditions, safeguards, and a
specified time limit for the performance of the special exception use permit.
2.   Application for Special Exception Use Permit. An application for a special
exception use permit may be initiated by a property owner or his authorized
agent by filing an application with the Zoning Administrator upon forms
prescribed for the purposes. The application shall be accompanied by a site
plan and other such plans and data showing the dimensions, arrangements,
descriptive data, and other materials constituting a record essential to an
understanding of the proposes use and proposed modification in relation to the
standards set forth herein. The application shall also be accompanied by a fee
as determined by resolution of the City Council.
3.   Procedure. A special exception permit shall not be granted by the Board of
Adjustment unless and until the following procedures have been fulfilled:
   A.   The Board of Adjustment shall schedule a public hearing in relation to
the special exception request. Notice shall be given to the public hearing as
required by State statute by publication in a newspaper of general circulation
in the City. If feasible, notice of the public hearing will be mailed to
property owners within 200 feet of the exception request.
   B.   The Board of Adjustment is empowered under this chapter to grant the
special exception as described in the application, and that granting of the
special exception will not adversely affect the public interest pursuant to
testimony presented at the public hearing.
   C.   In granting any special exception, the Board of Adjustment may
prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this
chapter. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the
terms under which the special exception is granted, shall be deemed a violation
of this chapter and punishable under Section
165.19 of this chapter.
   D.   The concurring vote of three members of the Board of Adjustment grants
a special exception use permit. No order of the Board of Adjustment granting a
special exception use permit shall be valid for a period longer than six months
from the date of such order, unless the Board of Adjustment specifically grants
a longer period of time or a building permit is obtained within the six-month
period and construction is commenced.
   E.   The City Council may, after a decision of the Board of Adjustment is
made, vote to delay the implementation of such decision for a period of 30
days. The Council may not overturn a decision of the Board of Adjustment.
During the 30-day period the Board of Adjustment may or may not reconsider its
decision.
4.   Standards. No special exception use permit shall be granted by the Board
of Adjustment unless such Board shall find:
   A.   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the special use will
not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort,
or general welfare of the community.
   B.   The special exception use will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purpose already
permitted or substantially diminish and impair property values within the
neighborhood.
   C.   The establishment of the special exception use will not impede the
normal and orderly development in improvement of the surrounding property for
uses permitted in the district.
   D.   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and/or necessary facilities
have been or are being provided.
   E.   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress and
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets.
   F.   The use shall not include any activity involving the use or storage of
flammable or explosive material unless protected by adequate firefighting and
fire suppression equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used in
handling of any such material.
   G.   The use shall not include noise which is objectionable due to volume,
frequency, or beat unless muffled or otherwise controlled.
   H.   The use shall not include vibration which is discernible without
instruments on any adjoining lot or property.
   I.   The use shall not involve any malodorous gas or matter which is
discernible on any adjoining property.
   J.   The use shall not involve any pollution of the air by fly-ash, dust,
vapors, or other substance which is harmful to health, animals, vegetation or
other property or which can cause soiling, discomfort, or irritation.
   K.   The use shall not involve any direct or reflected glare which is
visible form any adjoining property or from any public street, road or highway.
   L.   The use shall not involve any activity substantially increasing the
movement of traffic on public streets unless procedures are initiated to limit
traffic hazards and congestions.
   M.   The use shall not involve any activity substantially increasing the
burden on any public utilities or facilities unless provisions are made for any
necessary adjustments.
   N.   The use will not be in major conflict with the Comprehensive City Plan.
165.17   NONCONFORMING USES.
Within the various districts established by this chapter or amendments that may
later be adopted, there exist structures and uses of land and structures which
were lawful prior to the adoption of the zoning ordinance but which would be
prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the provisions of this chapter. It
is the intent of this chapter to permit these nonconformities to continue until
they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. Such uses are declared
by this chapter to be incompatible with permitted uses in the districts
involved.
1.   Nonconforming Lots of Record in any Residential District. A single-family
dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of
record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter even
though such lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that
are generally applicable in that district. The yard dimensions and other bulk
regulations for the district in which such lot is located shall apply. Variance
of area, width, and yard requirements shall be obtained through action of the
Board of Adjustment. Two or more nonconforming lots, or portions thereof, that
are contiguous in frontage and under the same ownership shall be considered to
be an un-subdivided parcel for purposes of this chapter. No portion of said
parcel shall be sold and then used which does not meet lot width and area
requirements established by this chapter, nor shall any division of the parcel
be made which leaves remaining any lot with width or area below the
requirements stated in this chapter.
2.   Nonconforming Uses or Structures in any Residential District. Existing
structures or premises devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter in the
district in which such structure or premises is located shall not be enlarged,
extended, reconstructed, substituted, or structurally altered, except when
required by law, unless:
   A.   The use is changed to a use permitted in the district in which such
structure or premises is located.
   B.   A nonconforming use of a structure may be changed to another
nonconforming use of the same or more restrictive classification, provided no
structural alterations are made.
   C.   If a nonconforming use of any structure or premises is discontinued for
a period of one year, the use of the same shall conform thereafter to the uses
permitted in the district in which it is located.
   D.   The structure is damaged as a result of fire, flood, explosion, war,
riot, or act of God, and said structure is to be restored, reconstructed, or
substituted with a similar structure within the same geographical area as the
previous structure, which shall include not extending out further into setbacks
or enlarging of the previous structure, and said restoration, reconstruction,
or substitution is started within one year of such damage.
3.   Nonconforming Uses or Structures in any District Other Than a Residential
District. The regulations described in Subsection 2 of this section shall apply
to nonconforming uses in a commercial, industrial, or agricultural district,
subject to the following exception: Nonconforming structures may be
structurally altered or enlarged in conformity with the lot area, lot width,
yard, and height requirements of the district in which such use is located.
Such construction shall be limited to buildings on a lot of record (or a
combination of lots of record in the same ownership) prior to the effective
date of the zoning ordinance. The structural alteration or enlargement of
structures shall not change the nature of the nonconforming use that existed
prior to such effective date.
4.   Permitted Structures and Use of Land and Structures Made Nonconforming by
the Requirements of Bulk Regulations. A permitted structure or use that fails
to meet the established bulk regulations of the district in which it is located
may be structurally altered or extended provided that the alteration or
extension is in compliance with the bulk regulations of the district in which
it is located. Any variance must be obtained through action of the Board of
Adjustment.
5.   Uses Under Special Exception Provisions. Any use for which a special
exception is permitted as provided in this chapter shall not be deemed a
conforming use. Any additions shall be with Board of Adjustment approval.
165.18   ADMINISTRATION.
1.   Administrator. The Council shall appoint a Zoning Administrative officer,
and it shall be the duty of said officer to enforce this chapter. Such officer
may be a person holding other appointive office in the City or in another
governmental agency.
2.   Zoning Compliance Permits. No land shall be occupied or used, and no
building hereafter erected or structurally altered (principal or accessory
structure) shall be occupied or used in whole or in part for any purpose
whatsoever, until a permit is issued by the Zoning Administrator, stating that
the building and use comply with the provisions of this chapter. No change of
use shall be made in any building or part thereof now or hereafter erected or
structurally altered (principal or accessory structure) without a permit being
issued therefor by the Zoning Administrative Officer. No permit shall be issued
to make a change unless the changes are in conformity with provisions of this
chapter. Nothing in this section shall prevent the continuance of a
nonconforming use as hereinbefore authorized, unless a discontinuance is
necessary for the safety of life or property.
3.   Application for Compliance Permit. Compliance permits shall be obtained
from the Zoning Administrative Officer before starting or proceeding with the
erection, construction, moving in, or the structural alteration of a building
or structure. Permits shall be kept on file in the office of the Zoning
Administrative Officer, and copies shall be furnished on request to any person
having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building affected. Compliance
permits shall be issued to complying applicants within 14 days after
application is made. If construction does not commence within 90 days or is not
completed within one year from the date the permit was issued, the permit shall
become null and void.
4.   Plats. Each application for a compliance permit shall be accompanied by
either a dimensioned drawing or plat drawn to scale showing the actual
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the size, shape and location of the
building to be erected, the dimensions of the required yards, parking and open
spaces, a plan showing any proposed site grading and drainage modifications,
and such other information as may be necessary to provide for the enforcement
of this chapter.
5.   Construction and Use to be as Provided in Application, Plans and Permit.
Compliance permits issued on the basis of plans and applications, approved by
the Zoning Administrative Officer, authorize only that use, arrangement and
construction. Use, arrangement and construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and punishable as
provided by Section
165.19.
6.   Fees. Before receiving a compliance permit, the owner or owner’s agent
shall pay to the City the permit fee as provided by resolution of the Council.
7.   Special Exceptions. A compliance permit for a special exception may be
issued by the Administrative Officer upon the order of the Board of Adjustment.
165.19   VIOLATIONS.
1.   The violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
civil infraction. Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted by the
violator to exist constitutes a separate offense. In the case of violations to
this chapter the Zoning Administrative Officer shall deliver a citation either
by personal service or by certified mail, return receipt requested, to any
person alleged to be committing an infraction. Copies of the citation shall be
transmitted as follows: one copy to the City Clerk, one copy to the District
Court upon failure of the person to pay the fine and abate the nuisance within
the designated time, one copy to the department issuing the citation, and one
copy to the person cited for the infraction. The citation shall contain the
following:
   A.   The name and address of the violator,
   B.   A description of the infraction;
   C.   The location, date, and time of the infraction;
   D.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternate relief
sought, or both;
   E.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid;
   F.   The time and place of court appearance, which shall be set not less
than three or more than 10 days after the time period for voluntary payment of
the fine and correction of the violation has expired;
   G.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
If a person receiving a citation for an infraction fails to pay the fine for
the infraction and abate the violation by the date set forth on the citation
and fails to stand trial for the offense, judgment shall be entered against the
person for the relief asked and for all court costs and fees. Upon failure to
satisfy the judgment, the person shall be cited for contempt.
2.   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure of land
is used in violation of this chapter, the City Attorney, in addition to other
remedies may institute any proper action or proceed in the name of the City to
prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair, conversion, maintenance, conduct, business or use in or about said
premises.
165.20   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
1.   Confirmation of Existing Board of Adjustment. The five members of the
existing Board of Adjustment are hereby confirmed to continue their appointed
terms of office. Future members of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed
by the Council for a term of five years. Members of the Board of Adjustment may
be removed from office by the City Council for cause upon written charges and
after a public hearing. Vacancies shall be filled by the City Council for the
unexpired term of the resigning member.
2.   Proceedings of the Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment shall
adopt rules necessary to the conduct of its affairs, and in keeping with the
provisions of this chapter. Meetings shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. The
Chairperson, or in the absence of the Chairperson, the acting Chairperson may
administer oaths and compel attendance of witnesses. All meetings shall be open
to the public. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examination and other
official actions, all of which shall be a public record and be immediately
filed in the office of the Administrative Officer. The presence of three
members shall constitute a quorum.
3.   Hearings, Appeals, Notice. Appeals to the Board of Adjustment concerning
interpretation or administration of this chapter may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer or bureau of the City affected by a decision of the
Administrative Officer. Such appeals should be taken within a reasonable time,
not to exceed 30 days, by filing with the Administrative Officer and with the
Board of Adjustment, a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The
Administrative Officer shall forthwith transmit to the Board all papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed was taken. The Board of
Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of appeals, give public
notices thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide
the same within a reasonable time. At the hearing any party may appear in
person, by agent or attorney. A fee to be determined by resolution of the
Council shall be paid to the Administrative Officer at the time the notice is
filed.
4.   Stay on Proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the
action appealed, unless the Administrative Officer from whom the appeal is
taken certifies to the Board of Adjustment after the notice of appeal is filed
with such officer, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay
would, in the opinion of the Administrative Officer, cause imminent peril to
life and property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by
a restraining order which may be granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a
court of record on application, on notice to the Administrative Officer from
whom the appeal is taken and upon due cause shown.
5.   Powers and Duties. The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers
and duties:
   A.   Administrative Review. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
that there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made
by the Administrative Officer in the enforcement of this chapter.
   B.   Special Exceptions. To hear and decide only such exceptions as the
Board of Adjustment is specifically authorized to pass on by the terms of this
chapter.
   C.   Variances. To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance
from the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest
where, owing to the special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions
of this chapter would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance from the terms
of this chapter shall not be granted by the Board of Adjustment unless and
until:
      (1)   A written application for a variance is submitted demonstrating:
         a.   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to
the land, structure, or building involved and which are not applicable to other
lands, structures, or buildings in the same district.
         b.   Literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this chapter.
         c.   The special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant.
         d.   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant
any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district. No nonconforming use of
neighboring lands, structures, or buildings in the same district, and no
permitted use of land, structures or buildings in other districts shall be
considered grounds for the issuance of a variance.
      (2)   A public hearing shall be held, with the notice of such hearing
being provided according to State statute. If feasible, notice of the public
hearing shall be mailed to property owners within 200 feet of the proposed
variance.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the
reasons set forth in the application justify the granting of the variance, and
that the variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the
reasonable use of the land, building, or structure.
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the
granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of this chapter, and will not be injurious to the neighborhood, or otherwise
detrimental to the public welfare.
      (5)   The application for a variance shall be accompanied by a fee to be
determined by resolution of the Council.
      (6)   In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this chapter.
Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter.
6.   Decisions of the Board of Adjustment. In exercising the above mentioned
powers, the Board of Adjustment may, so long as such action is in conformity
with the terms of this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may
modify the order, requirements, decision, or determination as ought to be made
and to that end shall have powers of the Administrative Officer from whom the
appeal is taken. The concurring vote of three members of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
Administrative Officer, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter
upon which it is required to pass under this chapter, or to effect any
variation in application of this chapter.
7.   Appeals from the Board of Adjustment. Any person, board, taxpayer,
department, or bureau of the community aggrieved by any decision of the Board
of Adjustment may seek review of such decision of the Board of Adjustment by a
court of record in the manner provided by Chapter 414, Code of Iowa. The
Council may vote to delay a decision of the Board of Adjustment for a 30-day
period, but such vote may not overrule a decision of the Board of Adjustment.
During the 30-day delay the Board of Adjustment may – or may not – review its
previous decision.
165.21   CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
1.   This chapter and the districts created by this chapter may be amended from
time to time. However, no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have
been proposed by, or shall have been first submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for review and recommendation. The Commission shall have 30 days in
which to submit its report to the Council. If the Commission fails to submit a
report within the 30-day period, it shall be deemed to have approved the
proposed amendment. A public hearing shall be held by the Council before
adoption of any proposed amendment to this chapter. A notice of such public
hearing shall be published according to State statute. Such notice shall
include the time and place for the public hearing. In the case of a written
protest against a change or repeal which is filed with the City Clerk and
signed by the owners of 20 percent or more of the area of the lots included in
the proposed change or repeal, or by the owners of 20 percent or more of the
property which is indicated within 200 feet of the exterior boundaries of the
property for which the change or repeal is proposed, the change or repeal shall
not become effective unless it receives the favorable vote of at least three-
fourths of all the members of the City Council.
2.   Any person may submit to the Council an application requesting a change in
the zoning district boundaries as shown on the Official Zoning Map.
   A.   Such application shall be filed with the Administrative Officer
accompanied by a fee as determined by resolution of the City Council and shall
contain the following information. Failure to approve the requested change
shall not be deemed cause to refund the fee to the applicant.
      (1)   The legal description and local address of the property;
      (2)   The present zoning classification and the zoning classification
requested for the property;
      (3)   The existing use and proposed use of the property,
      (4)   The names and addresses of the owners of all property within 200
feet of the property for which the change is requested;
      (5)   A statement of the reasons why the applicant feels the present
zoning classification is no longer valid;
      (6)   A plat showing existing and proposed locations, dimensions and use
of the applicant’s property and all property within 200 feet thereof, including
streets, alleys, railroads, and other physical features.
   B.   Upon receipt of the application by the Administrative Officer a copy
shall be forwarded immediately to the Commission for study and recommendation.
The Commission shall, prior to making a recommendation, determine the
following:
      (1)   Whether or not the current district classification of the property
to be rezoned is valid;
      (2)   Whether there is a need for additional land zoned for the purpose
requested;
      (3)   Whether the proposed change is consistent with the current land use
plan, considering such factors as:
         a.   Whether the rezoning would result in a population density or
development which would in turn cause a demand for services and utilities in
excess of the capacity planned for the area;
         b.   Whether the rezoning would result in the generating of traffic in
excess of the capacity of existing or planned streets in the vicinity.
      (4)   Whether there is an intent on the part of the applicant to develop
the property to be rezoned diligently and within a reasonable time.
   C.   The Commission shall report its determination and recommendation to the
Council within 30 days from receipt of the application except that when no
report is issued within that time, the application will be deemed approved by
the Commission.
165.22   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.
1.   The Legislature of the State of Iowa has, in Chapter 414 of the Code of
Iowa, as amended, delegated the power to cities to enact zoning regulations to
secure safety from flood and to promote health and the general welfare.
2.   Findings of Fact.
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic inundation
which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare of
the community.
   B.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are caused by:
(i) the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood damages
which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately elevated or
otherwise protected from flooding; and (ii) the cumulative effect of
obstructions on the floodplain causing increases in flood heights and
velocities.
   C.   This section relies upon engineering methodology for analyzing flood
hazards which is consistent with the standards established by the Department of
Natural Resources.
3.   Statement of Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to protect and
preserve the rights, privileges, and property of the City and its residents and
to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, and comfort and
convenience of its residents by minimizing those flood losses described in
Paragraph 2(A) of this section with provisions designed to:
   A.   Reserve sufficient floodplain area for the conveyance of flood flows so
that flood heights and velocities will not be increased substantially.
   B.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities.
   C.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement.
   D.   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
   E.   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
4.   Lands to Which Ordinance Codified in This Section Applies. The provisions
of this section shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the City
which are located within the boundaries of the Floodplain (Overlay) District as
established in this section.
5.   Establishment of Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Wright County and Incorporated Areas, City of Clarion, Panels
19197C0235C and 19197C0255C, dated February 20, 2013, which were prepared as
part of the Flood Insurance Study for Wright County is hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be the Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The Wright
County Flood Insurance Study is hereby adopted by reference and is made a part
of this Code of Ordinances for the purpose of administering floodplain
management regulations.
6.   Rules for Interpretation of Floodplain (Overlay) District. The boundaries
of the Floodplain (Overlay) District areas shall be determined by scaling
distances on the official Flood Insurance Rate Map. When an interpretation is
needed as to the exact location of a boundary, the Zoning Administrative
Officer shall make the necessary interpretation. The Board of Adjustment shall
hear and decide appeals when it is alleged that there is an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination made by the Zoning Administrative
Officer in the enforcement or administration of this section.
7.   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be used, and no structure
shall be located, extended, converted, or structurally altered without full
compliance with the terms of this section and other applicable regulations
which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this section.
8.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this section to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this section imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this section shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this section are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
9.   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the provisions of
this section shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by State statutes.
10.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The standards required by this
section are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. This section does
not imply that areas outside the designated Floodplain (Overlay) District areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This section shall not create
liability on the part of the City or any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this section or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
11.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
section is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this section shall not be affected thereby.
12.   Appointment, Duties and Responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator.
   A.   The Zoning Administrative Officer is hereby appointed to implement and
administer the provisions of this section and will herein be referred to as the
Administrator.
   B.   Duties and responsibilities of the Administrator shall include, but not
necessarily be limited to the following:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permit applications to assure
that the provisions of this section will be satisfied.
      (2)   Review floodplain development applications to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, State, and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Department of
Natural Resources for floodplain construction.
      (3)   Record and maintain a record of: (i) the elevation (in relation to
North American Vertical Datum 1988 of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new or substantially improved structures; or (ii) the elevation to which
new or substantially improved structures have been floodproofed.
      (4)   Notify adjacent communities/counties and the Department of Natural
Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a watercourse and
submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
      (5)   Keep a record of all permits, appeals and such other transactions
and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this section.
      (6)   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administration an annual report
concerning the community’s participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administration.
      (7)   Notify the Federal Insurance Administration of any annexations or
modifications to the community’s boundaries.
      (8)   Review subdivision proposals to ensure such proposals are
consistent with the purpose of this section and advise the Board of Adjustment
of potential conflict.
      (9)   Maintain the accuracy of the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Maps
when:
         a.   Development placed within the Floodway (Overlay) District results
in either of the following: (i) an increase in the base flood elevations; or
(ii) alteration to the floodway boundary;
         b.   Development placed in Zones A, AE, AH, and A1-30 that does not
include a designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one foot in
the base elevation; or
         c.   Development relocates or alters the channel.
Within six months of the completion of the development, the applicant shall
submit to FEMA all scientific and technical data necessary for a Letter of Map
Revision.
      (10)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with the standards
of this section.
      (11)   Forward all requests for variances to the Board of Adjustment for
consideration. Ensure all requests include the information ordinarily submitted
with applications as well as any additional information deemed necessary to the
Board of Adjustment.
13.   Floodplain Development Permit.
   A.   Permit Required. A Floodplain Development Permit issued by the
Administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development (any manmade
change to improved and unimproved real estate, including but not limited to
buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, storage of
materials and equipment, excavation, or drilling operations), including the
placement of factory-built homes.
   B.   Application for Permit. Application shall be made on forms furnished by
the Administrator and shall include the following:
      (1)   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
      (2)   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done
(e.g., lot, block, track, street address or similar description) that will
readily identify and locate the work to be done.
      (3)   Location and dimensions of all structures and additions.
      (4)   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended.
      (5)   Elevation of the base flood.
      (6)   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988 of the
lowest floor (including basement) of structures or of the level to which a
structure is to be floodproofed.
      (7)   For structures being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost of
improvements and market value of the structure prior to the improvements.
      (8)   Such other information as the Administrator deems reasonably
necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this section.
   C.   Action on Permit Application. The Administrator shall, within a
reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed floodplain
development meets the applicable standards of this section and shall approve or
disapprove the application. For disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed,
in writing, of the specific reasons therefor. The Administrator shall not issue
permits for variances except as directed by the Board of Adjustment.
   D.   Construction and Use to Be as Provided in Application and Plans.
Floodplain Development Permits based on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement, or
construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this section. The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor,
as appropriate, registered in the State of Iowa, that the finished fill,
structure floor elevations, flood proofing, or other flood protection measures
were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this section, prior to
the use or occupancy of any structure.
14.   Standards For Floodplain (Overlay) District. All development must be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and meet the following
applicable performance standards. Where base flood elevations and floodway data
have not been provided on the Flood Insurance Rate Map, the Iowa Department of
Natural Resources shall be contacted to compute such data. The applicant will
be responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources with
sufficient technical information to make such determination.
   A.   All Development. All development within the Floodplain (Overlay)
District shall:
      (1)   Be designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement.
      (2)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      (3)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant
to flood damage.
      (4)   Obtain all other necessary permits from federal, State, and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Iowa Department
of Natural Resources.
   B.   Residential Structures. All new or substantially improved residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated a minimum
of one foot above the base flood elevation. Construction shall be upon
compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than one foot above the
base flood elevation and extend at such elevation at least 18 feet beyond the
limits of any structure erected thereon. Alternate methods of elevating (such
as piers or extended foundations) may be allowed subject to favorable
consideration by the Board of Adjustment, where existing topography, street
grades, or other factors preclude elevating by fill. In such cases, the methods
used must be adequate to support the structure as well as withstand the various
forces and hazards associated with flooding. All new residential structures
located in areas that would become isolated due to flooding of surrounding
ground shall be provided with a means of access that will be passable by
wheeled vehicles during the base flood. However, this criterion shall not apply
where the Administrator determines there is sufficient flood warning time for
the protection of life and property. When estimating flood warning time,
consideration shall be given to the criteria listed in 567-75.2(3), Iowa
Administrative Code.
   C.   Nonresidential Structures. All new or substantially improved
nonresidential structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation, or together with
attendant utility and sanitary systems, be flood proofed to such a level. When
flood proofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State of
Iowa shall certify that the flood proofing methods used are adequate to
withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces and
other factors associated with the base flood; and that the structure, below the
base flood elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water. A record of the certification indicating the specific
elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator.
   D.   All New and Substantially Improved Structures.
      (1)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (not including
basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than one square
inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be
provided.
The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade.
Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other coverings or
devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access and
low damage potential storage.
      (2)   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
      (3)   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed with
electric meter, electrical service panel box, hot water heater, heating, air
conditioning, ventilation equipment (including ductwork), and other similar
machinery and equipment (or in the case of non-residential structures,
optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation.
      (4)   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed with
plumbing, gas lines, water meters, gas meters, and other similar service
utilities either elevated (or in the case of anon-residential structure,
optionally flood proofed to a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation or designed to be watertight and withstand inundation to such level.
   E.   Factory-Built Homes.
      (1)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the structure
is a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of
anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame
ties to ground anchors. Anchorage systems may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors as required by the State
Building Code.
   F.   Utility and Sanitary Systems.
      (1)   On-site waste disposal and water supply systems shall be located or
designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system
during flooding.
      (2)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system as well
as the discharge of effluent into flood waters. Wastewater treatment facilities
(other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood protection
equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (3)   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system. Water
supply treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with
a level of protection equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood
elevation.
      (4)   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
   G.   Storage of Materials and Equipment. Storage of equipment and materials
that are flammable, explosive, or injurious to human, animal or plant life is
prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation. Other material and equipment must either be similarly elevated or:
(i) not subject to major flood damage and be anchored to prevent movement due
to flood waters; or (ii) readily removable from the area within the time
available after flood warning.
   H.   Flood Control Structures. Flood control structural works such as
levees, flood walls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from the base
flood with a minimum of three feet of design freeboard and shall provide for
adequate interior drainage. In addition, structural flood control works shall
be approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
   I.   Watercourse Alterations. Watercourse alterations or relocations must be
designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion. In addition, such alterations or relocations must be
approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
   J.   Subdivisions. Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and
subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
section. Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during
the base flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than five acres or 50 lots
(whichever is less) shall include base flood elevation data for those areas
located within the Floodplain (Overlay) District.
   K.   Accessory Structures to Residential Uses. Detached garages, sheds, and
similar structures that are incidental to a residential use are exempt from the
base flood elevation requirements where the following criteria are satisfied.
      (1)   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage potential.
Its size shall not exceed 600 square feet in size. Those portions of the
structure located less than one foot above the BFE must be constructed of
flood-resistant materials.
      (2)   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage potential
purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage. The structure shall not
be used for human habitation.
      (3)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (4)   The structure shall be firmly anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
      (5)   The structure's service facilities such as electrical and heating
equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one foot above the base
flood elevation.
      (6)   The structure’s walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of Subsection 14(D)(1) of this section.
Exemption from the base flood elevation requirements for such a structure may
result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of the structure
and its contents.
   L.   Recreational Vehicles.
      (1)   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of
Subsection 14(E) of this section regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-
built homes when the following criteria are satisfied.
The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less than 180
consecutive days; and
The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A
recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than
180 consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must satisfy requirements
of Subsection 14(E) of this section regarding anchoring and elevation of
factory-built homes.
   M.   Pipeline Crossings. Pipeline river and stream crossings shall be buried
in the streambed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent
rupture due to channel degradation and meandering.
   N.   Maximum Damage Potential Uses. All new or substantially improved
maximum damage potential uses shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot above the elevation of the 500-year flood, or
together with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be floodproofed to such a
level. When flood proofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in
the State of Iowa shall certify that the flood proofing methods used are
adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and
uplift forces and other factors associated with the base flood; and that the
structure, below the base flood elevation is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water. A record of the
certification indicating the specific elevation (in relation to North American
Vertical Datum 1988) to which any structures are flood proofed shall be
maintained by the Administrator. Where 0.2% chance flood elevation data has not
been provided in the Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa Department of Natural
Resources shall be contacted to compute such data. The applicant will be
responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient
technical information to make such determinations.
15.   Establishment of Variance Procedures.
   A.   The Board of Adjustment may authorize upon request in specific cases
such variances from the terms of this section that will not be contrary to the
public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this section will result in unnecessary hardship. Variances
granted must meet the following applicable standards.
      (1)   Variances shall only be granted upon: (i) a showing of good and
sufficient cause; (ii) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and (iii) a determination that
the granting of the variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict with
existing local codes or ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (3)   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood
protection for structures than what is ordinarily required by this section, the
applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Administrator
that: (i) the issuance of a variance will result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25.00 for $100.00 of insurance
coverage; and (ii) such construction increases risks to life and property.
   B.   Factors upon Which the Decision of the Board of Adjustment Shall Be
Based. In passing upon applications for variances, the Board shall consider all
relevant factors specified in other subsections of this section and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or
downstream to the injury of others.
      (3)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary conditions.
      (4)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
      (5)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the City.
      (6)   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location.
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use.
      (8)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
      (9)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for the area.
      (10)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
      (11)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood water expected at the site.
      (12)   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems), facilities, streets, and bridges.
      (13)   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this
section.
   C.   Conditions Attached to Variances. Upon consideration of the factors
listed above, the Board of Adjustment may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose of this
section. Such conditions may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
      (1)   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
      (2)   Limitation of periods of use and operation.
      (3)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
      (4)   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees, and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the
Department of Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative
to achieving the purpose of this section.
      (5)   Floodproofing measures.
16.   Nonconforming Uses.
   A.   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of the ordinance codified in this section, but
which is not in conformity with the provisions of this section, may be
continued subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this section.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   B.   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50
percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred, unless
it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this section. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
State or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or regulations or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
17.   Penalties for Violation. Violations of the provisions of this section or
failure to comply with any of the requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor.
Any person who violates this section or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $500.00.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy violation.
18.   Amendments. The regulations and standards set forth in this section may
from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed. No amendment,
supplement, change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval
of the Department of Natural Resources.
165.23   DRIVEWAYS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
The regulations proscribed in this section apply to all residential zoned
districts and residential real properties, regardless of zone, within the City.
Any person, corporation, or legal entity who is the owner, whether the legal or
equitable title holder, of a residential lot shall be responsible for any
violation of this section.
1.   Definitions. The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in Section
69.17, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   A.   “Curb drop” means a cut made through the street curb that has
previously been authorized and approved by the City.
   B.   “Dwelling” means any portion of a building that is designed or used for
residential living purposes, not including any attached garage portion.
   C.   “Entrance” means a portion of the driveway that is the approved exit
from a street or alley onto private property, which has previously been
authorized and approved by the City.
   D.   “Front yard” for a corner lot means any yard of a corner lot adjacent
to a street. For any other lot, “front yard” means any yard adjacent to a
street.
All other words and terms, not enumerated in Subsection 1 of this section,
shall be defined as provided in the Zoning Ordinance, any amendments thereto or
any future zoning ordinances enacted by the City.
2.   Driveways. Under this section, a driveway and entrance shall be an
improved surface constructed of concrete, asphalt, seal coat, solid bricks,
gravel or crushed stone, constructed and maintained in quality, quantity and
size to prevent the creation of ruts in or deterioration or damage to the
driveway or soil beneath from the operation or parking of vehicles thereon.
Gravel or crushed stone must be maintained so as to be free from weeds and
grass, and shall be bordered alongside unimproved surfaces so as to prevent the
gradual spread of said gravel or crushed stone. The location of driveway or
parking areas are as follows:
   A.   Front Yard: Only one driveway shall be allowed in a front yard per
street frontage, except that a duplex with each unit having its own garage
shall be permitted a driveway for each garage subject to Subsection 3. No
driveway shall be located in front of a dwelling, except for the following:
      (1)   Any dwelling area portions attached to and located above or behind
a garage;
      (2)   A driveway extension as defined in Subsection 4 of this section.
      (3)   Driveways in front of a dwelling which has no attached garage.
3.   Width of driveway. A driveway shall be no wider than as follows:
   A.   If there is a one vehicle-stall wide garage facing the front yard, or
no garage: 12 feet
   B.   If there is a two vehicle-stall wide garage: 24 feet
   C.   If there is a three vehicle-stall wide garage: 36 feet
4.   Driveway extensions. One driveway extension with a maximum width of 12
feet can be added to the maximum width designated in Subsection 3 above subject
to the following requirements:
   A.   One driveway extension no wider than twelve feet in width shall be
permitted in any one front yard; and
   B.   A driveway extension must be contiguous and parallel to the driveway,
although a driveway that curves into a driveway expansion for the purpose of
maintaining or creating a minimal curb drop is allowed; and
   C.   A driveway extension that is created on or after this ordinance takes
effect must be located between the driveway and the side property line in the
direction away from the dwelling, if there is sufficient space for placement
between the driveway and that side property line; and
   D.   The surface of a driveway extension must be an improved surface
constructed of concrete, asphalt, seal coat, solid bricks, gravel or crushed
stone, and constructed and maintained in quality, quantity and size to prevent
the creation of ruts in or the deterioration or damage to the driveway
extension or soil beneath from the operation or parking of vehicles thereon.
165.24   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall reconstruct or install a driveway or driveway extension unless
such person has obtained a permit from the City and has agreed in writing that
said reconstruction or installation will comply with all ordinances and
requirements of the City for such work. If in conjunction with another permit,
no fee shall apply. All other circumstances shall require a fee for said
permit, in an amount as time to time fixed by the Council by resolution, which
shall be paid prior to approval by the Zoning Administrator. Any driveway or
driveway extension which is reconstructed or installed subsequent to the
effective date of this ordinance may be subject to reconstruction or removal if
it does not conform to the standards set forth in this chapter.
1.   Investigation. The Zoning Administrator shall investigate each application
so filed and within seven calendar days make a determination as to whether the
application is allowed under the City’s Zoning Ordinance.
2.   Grounds for Denial. If after such investigation of the application, it is
determined by the Zoning Administrator that the proposed driveway or driveway
extension does not conform to the general appearances or allowable uses of this
chapter, the application shall be denied.
3.   Conditions for Approval. As a condition to approving an application, the
Zoning Administrator may require changes in the material, design, or plan of
the project contemplated or its location upon the property described.
4.   Suspension or Revocation of Permits. The Zoning Administrator may, for
cause, suspend or revoke any permit issued by serving notice thereof on the
permit holder and in such event all work and operations under the permit shall
immediately cease until the cause of suspension or revocation has been
adjusted. The permit holder shall have no claim against the Zoning
Administrator or the City in damages for such suspension or revocation.
5.   In the event the application for permit is denied by the Zoning
Administrator, the applicant may appeal that denial to the Board of Adjustment.
6.   Cost of Appeals. Should an applicant wish to appeal any decision of the
Zoning Administrator to the Board of Adjustment, the appeal shall be in
writing, filed with the Clerk, and a fee, in the amount as time to time fixed
by the Council by resolution, shall be paid.
7.   Council Approval. All permits approved by the Zoning Administrator and
special exceptions and/or variances approved by the Board of Adjustment shall
be submitted to the Council for final approval. No such permit, special
exception, variance or rezoning shall take effect until such Council approval.
8.   Time Limits. Work for which driveway or driveway extension permits are
issued under the provisions of this chapter must begin within six months of the
date said permit is approved and said work must be completed within one year.
Extensions of the time limits can only be approved by the Council.
9.   Liability. The fact that the City issues said driveway or driveway
extension permit in no way makes the City, or its representatives, liable in
the event the applicant fails to comply with any other rules or regulations
that may apply to such construction, change or remodeling.
(Section 165.24 – Ord. 622 – Aug. 23 Supp.)
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances have been adopted amending the Official Zoning Map
described in Section
165.02 of this chapter and have not been included as a part of this Code of
Ordinances but have been specifically saved from repeal and are in full
force and effect.
Ordinance No. Date Adopted Ordinance No. Date Adopted
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances have been adopted amending the Official Zoning Map
described in Section
165.02 of this chapter and have not been included as a part of this Code of
Ordinances but have been specifically saved from repeal and are in full
force and effect.
Ordinance No. Date Adopted      Ordinance No. Date Adopted
391           May 6, 1996
409           October 19, 1998
424           October 1, 2001
500           November 6, 2006
520           May 3, 2010
532           April 4, 2011
533           June 6, 2011
541           February 20, 2012
549           May 20, 2013
579           July 17, 2017
589           July 16, 2018
 
CHAPTER 166
AIRPORT ZONING REGULATIONS
 
166.01 Definitions                       166.06 Board of Adjustment
166.02 Airport Zones and Airspace Height 166.07 Judicial Review
Limitations
166.03 Use Restrictions                  166.08 Airport Zoning Commission
166.04 Lighting                          166.09 Conflicting Regulations
166.05 Variances                         166.10 Violations
 
166.01   DEFINITIONS.
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1.   “Airport” means the Clarion Municipal Airport.
2.   “Airport elevation” means the highest point of an airport’s usable landing
area measured in feet above mean sea level, which elevation is established to
be 1,307 feet.
3.   “Airport hazard” means any structure or tree or use of land which would
exceed the federal obstruction standards as contained in Fourteen (14) Code of
Federal Regulations Sections 77.21, 77.23 and 77.25 and which obstructs the
airspace required for the flight of aircraft and landing or takeoff at an
airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or taking off of aircraft.
4.   “Airport primary surface” means a surface longitudinally centered on a
runway. When the runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary
surface extends 200 feet beyond each end of that runway. The width of the
primary surface of a runway will be that width prescribed in Part 77 of the
Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) for the most precise approach existing or
planned for either end of that runway. The elevation of any point on the
primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway
centerline.
5.   “Airspace height” means for the purpose of determining the height limits
in all zones set forth in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum
shall be mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
6.   “Control zone” means airspace extending upward from the surface of the
earth which may include one or more airports and is normally a circular area of
five statute miles in radius, with extensions where necessary to include
instrument approach and departure paths.
7.   “Instrument runway” means a runway having an existing instrument approach
procedure utilizing air navigation facilities or area type navigation
equipment, for which an instrument approach procedure has been approved or
planned.
8.   “Minimum descent altitude” means the lowest altitude expressed in feet
above mean sea level, to which descent is authorized on final approach or
during circle-to-land maneuvering in execution of a standard instrument
approach procedure, where no electronic glide slope is provided.
9.   “Minimum en route altitude” means the altitude in effect between radio
fixes which assures acceptable navigational signal coverage and meets
obstruction clearance requirements between those fixes.
10.   “Minimum obstruction clearance altitude” means the specified altitude in
effect between radio fixes on VOR airways, off-airways routes, or route
segments which meets obstruction clearance requirements for the entire route
segment and which assures acceptable navigational signal coverage only within
22 miles of a VOR.
11.   “Runway” means a defined area on an airport prepared for landing and
takeoff of aircraft along its length.
12.   “Visual runway” means a runway intended solely for the operation of
aircraft using visual approach procedures with no straight-in instrument
approach procedure and no instrument designation indicated on an FAA approved
airport layout plan, military services approved military airport layout plan,
or by any planning document submitted to the FAA by competent authority.
166.02   AIRPORT ZONES AND AIRSPACE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
In order to carry out the provisions of this section, there are hereby created
and established certain zones which are depicted on the Municipal Airport
Height Zoning Map. A structure located in more than one zone of the following
zones is considered to be only in the zone with the more restrictive height
limitations. The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows:
1.   Horizontal Zone. The land lying under a horizontal plane 150 feet above
the established elevations, the perimeter of which is constructed by:
   A.   Swinging arcs of 5,000 feet radii from the center of each end of the
primary surface of Runways 2, 20, 14, and 32 and connecting the adjacent arcs
by lines tangent to those arcs.
   B.   Swinging arcs of 10,000 feet radii from the center of each end of the
primary surface of Runways 17 and 35, and connecting the adjacent arcs by lines
tangent to those arcs.
No structure shall exceed 150 feet above the established airport elevation in
the horizontal zone, as depicted on the Municipal Airport Height Zoning Map.
2.   Conical Zone. The land lying under a surface extending outward and upward
from the periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20 feet to one for a
horizontal distance of 4,000 feet. No structure shall penetrate the conical
surface in the conical zone, as depicted on the Municipal Airport Height Zoning
Map.
3.   Approach Zone. The land lying under the surface longitudinally centered on
the extended runway centerline and extending outward and upward from each end
of the primary surface.
(Note: An approach surface is applied to each end of each runway based upon the
type of approach available or planned for that runway end.)
   A.   Visual Other Than Utility Runway and Non-Precision Instrument Runway.
The inner edge of the approach surface is:
      (1)   250 feet wide for Runways 2 and 20.
      (2)   500 feet wide for N.P.I. Utility for Runways 14 and 32.
   B.   Visual Other Than Utility Runways. The outer edge of the approach zone
is:
      (1)   1,250 feet for Runways 2 and 20.
      (2)   2,000 feet, N.P.I. Utility for Runway 32.
      (3)   1,500 feet for visual, other than utility, for Runway 32.
   C.   The approach zone extends for a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet at a
slope of 20 to 1 for Runways 14, 32, 2, and 20.
No structure shall exceed the approach surface to any runway, as depicted on
the Municipal Airport Height Zoning Map.
4.   Transitional Zone. The land lying under those surfaces extending outward
and upward at right angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline
extended at a slope of 7 to 1 from the sides of the primary surface and from
the sides of the approach surfaces. No structures shall exceed the transitional
surface, as depicted on the Municipal Airport Height Zoning Map.
5.   Increase in Elevation of Structures. No structure shall be erected in the
County that raises the published minimum descent altitude for an instrument
approach to any runway, nor shall any structure be erected that causes the
minimum obstruction clearance altitude or minimum en route altitude to be
increased on any Federal airway in the County.
166.03   USE RESTRICTIONS.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of 166.02, no use may be made of land or
water within the City or County in such a manner as to interfere with the
operation of any airborne aircraft. The following special requirements shall
apply to each permitted use:
1.   Lighting. All lights or illumination used in conjunction with streets,
parking, signs or use of land and structures shall be arranged and operated in
such a manner that it is not misleading or dangerous to aircraft operating from
the Municipal Airport or in the vicinity thereof.
2.   Visual Hazards. No operation from any use shall produce smoke, glare, or
other visual hazards within three statute miles of any usable runway of the
Municipal Airport.
3.   Electronic Interference. No operation from any use in the City or County
shall produce electronic interference with navigation signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft.
166.04   LIGHTING.
Notwithstanding the provisions of
166.03, the owner of any structure over 200 feet above ground level must
install on the structure lighting in accordance with Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA), Advisory Circular 70-7460-1D and amendments.
Additionally, any structure constructed after the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter and exceeding 949 feet above ground level,
must install on that structure high intensity white obstruction lights in
accordance with Chapter 6 of FAA Advisory Circular 7460-1D and amendments. Any
permit or variance granted may be so conditioned as to require the owner of the
structure or growth in question to permit the City or County at its own expense
to install, operate, and maintain thereto such markers or lights as may be
necessary to indicate to pilots the presence of an airspace hazard.
166.05   VARIANCES.
Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any structure or to
permit the growth of any tree, or otherwise use property in violation of any
section of this chapter, may apply to the Board of Adjustment for variance from
such regulations. No application for variance to the requirements of this
chapter may be considered by the Board of Adjustment unless a copy of the
application has been submitted to the City Council for its opinion as to the
aeronautical effects of such a variance. If the City Council does not respond
to the Board of Adjustment within 15 days from receipt of the copy of the
application, the Board may make its decision to grant or deny the variance.
166.06   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
1.   The existing Board of Adjustment under the Zoning Ordinance is designated
to perform the functions of an Airport Zoning Board of Adjustment, and in
addition to its existing powers shall have and exercise the following powers:
   A.   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Planning and Zoning Commission in the enforcement of
this chapter.
   B.   To hear and decide special exemptions to the terms of this chapter upon
which such Board of Adjustment under such regulations may be required to pass.
   C.   To hear and decide specific variances.
2.   The Board of Adjustment shall have the powers established in Code of Iowa,
Section 414.12.
3.   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of any administrative official or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter,
or to effect variations of this chapter.
166.07   JUDICIAL REVIEW.
Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the Board of
Adjustment, may appeal to the court of record as provided in Code of Iowa,
Section 414.15.
166.08   AIRPORT ZONING COMMISSION.
The existing Planning and Zoning Commission of the City is designated to
perform the functions of the Airport Zoning Commission. It shall be the duty of
the Zoning Administrator to administer the regulations prescribed in this
chapter. Applications for permits and variances shall be made to the Zoning
Administrator upon a form furnished said officer. Applications required by this
chapter to be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be promptly
considered and granted or denied. Application for action by the Board of
Adjustment shall be forthwith transmitted by the Zoning Administrator.
166.09   CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict is with respect to height of structures, the use of
land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or requirement shall
govern and prevail.
166.10   VIOLATIONS.
Each violation of this chapter or of any regulation, order, or ruling
promulgated under this chapter shall constitute a simple misdemeanor, and each
day a violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 170
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
170.01 Definitions                      170.11 Final Plat Attachments
170.02 Platting Required                170.12 Action by the Commission
170.03 Procedure                        170.13 Action by the Council
170.04 Requirements of Preliminary Plat 170.14 General Requirements
170.05 Referral of Preliminary Plat     170.15 Improvements Required
170.06 Action by Engineer               170.16 Completion of Improvements
170.07 Action by the Commission         170.17 Performance Bond
170.08 Final Plat                       170.18 Variances
170.09 Referral of Final Plat           170.19 Changes and Amendments
170.10 Requirements of Final Plat
 
170.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms or words are defined.
1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, 20 feet or less
in width, affording secondary means of access to abutting property.
2.   “Block” means an area of land within a subdivision that is entirely
bounded by streets or highways, and/or the exterior boundaries of the
subdivision.
3.   “Building line” means a line on a plat between which line and public
right-of-way no buildings or structures may be erected.
4.   “Commission” means the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City.
5.   “Cul-de-sac” means a minor street having one end open to traffic and
terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
6.   “Easement” means a grant of the right to use a strip of land for specific
purposes by the general public, a corporation or certain persons.
7.   “Engineer” means the City Engineer or a consulting engineer acting in that
capacity.
8.   “Lot” means a portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended
for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or for
building development.
9.   “Major street” means a street of considerable continuity connecting
various sections of the City and designated as a major street on the official
major street plan of the City.
10.   “Minor street” means a street which is used primarily for access to the
abutting properties.
11.   “Performance bond” means a surety bond or cash deposit made out to the
City, in an amount equal to the full cost of the improvements which are
required by this chapter, said cost estimated by the City Engineer, and said
surety bond or cash bond being legally sufficient to secure to the City that
the said improvements will be constructed in accordance with this chapter.
12.   “Plat” means a map, drawing, or chart on which the subdivider’s plan of
the subdivision of land is presented and which the subdivider submits for
approval and intends, in final form, to record.
13.   “Subdivider” means the person undertaking the subdivision or
resubdivision of a tract or parcel of land.
14.   “Subdivision” means the division of land into three or more lots or other
division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership or building development. The term, when appropriate to the context,
relates to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided, or the
resubdivision of land heretofore divided or platted into lots or other
divisions of land, or, if a new street is involved, any division of land.
170.02   PLATTING REQUIRED.
Every owner of any tract or parcel of land who has subdivided or shall
hereafter subdivide or plat the same for the purpose of laying out an addition,
subdivision, building lot or lots, acreage or suburban lots within the City or,
pursuant to Section 354.9 of the Code of Iowa, within two miles from the
corporate limits shall cause plats of such area to be made in the form, and
containing the information, as hereinafter set forth before selling any lots
therein contained or placing the plat on record.
170.03   PROCEDURE.
In obtaining final approval of a proposed subdivision by the Commission and the
Council, the subdivider shall submit a preliminary plat, a performance bond,
and a final plat in accordance with the requirements hereinafter set forth.
170.04   REQUIREMENTS OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
The subdivider shall first prepare and file with the Clerk three copies of a
preliminary plat of adequate scale and size showing the following:
1.   Title, scale, north point, and date.
2.   Subdivision boundary lines, showing dimensions, bearings, angles, and
references to section, townships and range lines or corners.
3.   Present and proposed streets, alleys and sidewalks, with their right-of-
way, in or adjoining the subdivision, including dedicated widths, approximate
gradients, types and widths of surfaces, curbs, and planting strips, and
location of street lights.
4.   Proposed layout of lots, showing numbers, dimensions, radii, chords, and
the square foot areas of lots that are not rectangular.
5.   Building setback or front yard lines.
6.   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for schools, parks,
playgrounds, or other public, semi-public or community purposes.
7.   Present and proposed easements, showing locations, widths, purposes, and
limitations.
8.   Present and proposed utility systems, including sanitary and storm sewers,
other drainage facilities, water lines, gas mains, electric utilities, and
other facilities, with the size, capacity, invert elevation, and location of
each.
9.   Proposed name of the subdivision which shall not duplicate or resemble
existing subdivision names in the County.
10.   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, builder, and engineer,
surveyor or architect who prepared the preliminary plat, and the engineer,
surveyor or architect who will prepare the final plat.
11.   Existing and proposed zoning of the proposed subdivision and adjoining
property.
12.   A general summary description of any protective covenants or private
restrictions to be incorporated in the final plat.
13.   Contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet if the general
slope of the site is less than 10 percent and at vertical intervals of not more
than five feet if the general slope is 10 percent or greater.
170.05   REFERRAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
The Clerk shall forthwith refer two copies of the preliminary plat to the
engineer and a copy to the Commission.
170.06   ACTION BY THE ENGINEER.
The engineer shall carefully examine said preliminary plat as to its compliance
with the laws and regulations of the City, the existing street system, and good
engineering practices, and shall, as soon as possible, submit findings to the
Commission, together with one copy of the plat received.
170.07   ACTION BY THE COMMISSION.
The Commission shall, upon receiving the report of the engineer, as soon as
possible, but not more than 30 days thereafter, consider said report, negotiate
with the subdivider on changes deemed advisable and the kind and extent of
improvements to be made by the subdivider, and pass upon the preliminary plat
as originally submitted or modified. If the Commission does not act within 30
days, the preliminary plat shall be deemed to be approved; provided, however,
the subdivider may agree to an extension of the time for a period not to exceed
an additional 60 days. It shall then set forth its recommendations in writing,
whether of approval, modification, or disapproval.
1.   In the event that substantial changes or modifications are made by the
Commission or disapproval of the plat, it shall give its reasons therefor and
it may request and cause the revised preliminary plat to be resubmitted in the
same manner as the original plat.
2.   If approved, the Commission shall express its approval as “Conditional
Approval” and state the conditions of such approval, if any.
3.   The action of the Commission shall be noted on the two copies of the
preliminary plat, referenced, and attached to any conditions determined. One
copy shall be returned to the subdivider and the other copies retained by the
Commission.
4.   The “Conditional Approval” by the Commission shall not constitute final
acceptance of the addition or subdivision by the City but an authorization to
proceed with preparation of the final plat.
170.08   FINAL PLAT.
The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as approved,
and, if desired by the subdivider, it may constitute only that portion of the
approved preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to record and develop
at the time, provided, however, that such portion conforms to all requirements
of these regulations.
170.09   REFERRAL OF FINAL PLAT.
The subdivider shall, within 12 months of the conditional approval of the
preliminary plat by the Commission, prepare and file three copies of the final
plat and other required documents with the Clerk as hereinafter set forth, and
upon failure to do so within the time specified, the conditional approval of
the preliminary plat shall be null and void unless an extension of time is
applied for and granted by the Commission. Upon receipt of the final plat and
other required documents, the Clerk shall transmit two copies of the final plat
to the Commission for its recommendations and approval.
170.10   REQUIREMENTS OF THE FINAL PLAT.
The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn to a scale of not more than
100 feet to one inch with India ink on a reproducible tracing linen. It shall
show:
1.   The title under which the subdivision is to be recorded.
2.   The linear dimensions in feet and decimals of a foot of the subdivision
boundary, lot lines, streets, and alleys. These should be exact and complete to
include all distances, radii, arc, chords, points of tangency and central
angles.
3.   Street names and clear designations of public alleys. Streets that are
continuations of present streets should bear the same name. If new names are
needed, they should be distinctive. Street names may be required to conform to
the City plan. Setback lines and utility or other easements shall be shown or
provided by a general statement.
4.   Location, type, materials, and size of all monuments and markers including
all U.S., County or other official benchmarks.
5.   The plat should be signed and acknowledged by the subdivision landowner
and his or her spouse.
6.   A correct description of the subdivision land.
7.   A sealed certification of the accuracy of the plat by the professional
engineer or land surveyor who drew the final plat.
170.11   FINAL PLAT ATTACHMENTS.
The final plat shall have the following attached to it:
1.   A statement by the proprietors and their spouses, if any, that the plat is
prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their desire, signed
and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the acknowledgments of
deeds. The statement by the proprietors may also include a dedication to the
public of all lands within the plat that are designated for streets, alleys,
parks, open areas, school property or other public use, if the dedication is
approved by the Council.
2.   A statement from the mortgage holders or lienholders, if any, that the
plat is prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their desire,
signed and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the acknowledgment
of deeds. An affidavit and bond as provided for in Section 354.12 of the Code
of Iowa may be recorded in lieu of the consent of the mortgage or lienholder.
When a mortgage or lienholder consents to the subdivision, a release of
mortgage or lien shall be recorded for any areas conveyed to the City or
dedicated to the public.
3.   An opinion by an attorney-at-law who has examined the abstract of title of
the land being platted. The opinion shall state the names of the proprietors
and holders of mortgages, liens or other encumbrances on the land being platted
and shall note the encumbrances, along with any bonds securing the
encumbrances. Utility easements shall not be construed to be encumbrances for
the purpose of this section.
4.   A certificate of the County Treasurer that the land is free from certified
taxes and certified special assessments or that the land is free from certified
taxes and that the certified special assessments are secured by bond in
compliance with Section 354.12 of the Code of Iowa.
5.   A certificate of dedication of streets and other public property.
6.   A statement of restrictions of all types that run with the land and become
covenants in the deeds of lots.
7.   Resolution and certificate for approval by the Council and for signatures
of the Mayor and Clerk.
8.   Profiles, typical cross sections, and specifications of street
improvements and utility systems, to show the location, size, and grade. These
should be shown on a 50-foot horizontal scale and a five-foot vertical scale
with west or south at the left.
9.   A certificate by the City Engineer or similar official that all required
improvements and installations have been completed, or that a performance bond
guaranteeing completion has been approved by the City Attorney and filed with
the Clerk, or that the Council has agreed that the City will provide the
necessary improvements and installations and assess the costs against the
subdivider or future property owners in the subdivision.
10.   The encumbrance bond, if any.
170.12   ACTION BY THE COMMISSION.
The Commission shall, upon receiving the final plat, as soon as possible, but
not more than 30 days thereafter, consider the final plat and, if the same is
approved, shall submit their recommendation of approval to the Council,
together with a certified copy of their resolution showing the action of the
Commission.
170.13   ACTION BY THE COUNCIL.
Upon receipt of the certification by the Clerk the Council shall, within a
reasonable time, either approve or disapprove the final plat.
1.   In the event that said plat is disapproved by the Council, such
disapproval shall be expressed in writing and shall point out wherein said
proposed plat is objectionable.
2.   In the event that said plat is found to be acceptable and in accordance
with this chapter, the Council shall accept the same.
3.   The passage of a resolution by the Council accepting the plat shall
constitute final approval of the platting of the area shown on the final plat,
but the subdivider or owner shall cause such plat to be recorded in the office
of the County Recorder of the County where the land to be subdivided is
located, and shall file satisfactory evidence of such recording in the office
of the Clerk before the City shall recognize the plat as being in full force
and effect.
170.14   GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
The following general requirements shall be followed by all subdividers:
1.   Relation to Existing Streets.
   A.   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of all
streets shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets,
to topographic conditions, to public convenience and safety, and in their
appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such
streets.
   B.   The arrangement of streets in a subdivision shall either provide for
the continuation or appropriate projection of existing principal streets in
surrounding areas or conform to a plat for the neighborhood approved by the
Council to meet a particular situation where topographical or other conditions
made continuance or conformance to existing streets impracticable.
2.   Acreage Subdivisions.
   A.   Where the plat submitted covers only a part of the subdivider’s plat, a
sketch of the prospective future system of the unsubmitted part shall be
furnished and the street system of the part submitted shall be considered in
the light of adjustments in connection with the street system of the part not
submitted.
   B.   Where the parcel is subdivided into larger tracts than for building
lots such parcels shall be divided so as to allow for the opening of major
streets and the ultimate extension of adjacent minor streets.
   C.   Subdivisions showing unplatted strips or private streets controlling
access to public ways will not receive approval.
3.   Minor Streets.
   A.   Minor streets shall be so planned as to discourage through traffic.
   B.   Cul-de-sac streets are permitted where topography and other conditions
justify their use. Such streets shall not be longer than 500 feet and shall
terminate with a turnaround, having an outside roadway diameter of at least 80
feet and a street property line diameter of at least 100 feet. The right-of-way
width of the straight portion of such streets shall be a minimum of 50 feet.
The property line at the intersection of the turnaround and the straight
portion of the street shall be rounded at a radius of not less than 20 feet.
4.   Frontage Streets.
   A.   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial
street, the Commission may require marginal access streets, reverse frontage
with screen planting contained in a nonaccess reservation along the rear
property line, deep lots with rear service alleys, or such other treatment as
may be necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to
afford separation of through and local traffic.
   B.   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right-of-way or
limited access highway right-of-way, the Commission may require a street
approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way at a distance
suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land, as for park purposes
in residential districts, or for commercial or industrial purposes in
appropriate districts. Such distances shall also be determined with due regard
for the requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
5.   Half Streets. Half streets shall be prohibited except where essential to
the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations, and where the Commission finds it will be
practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided. Wherever a half street is adjacent to a tract to be
subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within such tract.
6.   Street Geometrics.
   A.   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall be
avoided.
   B.   A tangent at least 100 feet long shall be introduced between reverse
curves on arterial and collector streets.
   C.   When connecting street lines deflect from each other at any one point
by more than 10 degrees, they shall be connected by a curve with a radius
adequate to insure a sight distance of not less than 200 feet for minor and
collector streets, and of such greater radii as the Commission shall determine
for special cases.
   D.   Street right-of-way widths shall be as shown in the City’s Master Plan,
but in no event less than 50 feet.
7.   Intersections.
   A.   Insofar as is practical, acute angles between streets at their
intersection are to be avoided.
   B.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at
right angles and no street shall intersect any other street at less than 60
degrees.
   C.   Property lines at street intersections shall be rounded with a radius
of 10 feet, or of a greater radius where the Commission may deem it necessary.
The Commission may permit comparable cutoffs or chords in place of rounded
corners.
8.   Street Names. Streets that are in alignment with others already existing
and named shall bear the name of the existing streets. The proposed names of
new streets shall not duplicate or sound similar to existing street names.
Street names shall be subject to the approval of the Commission.
9.   Street Grades. Street grades, wherever feasible, shall not exceed five
percent, with due allowance for reasonable vertical curves. No street grade
shall be less than one-half of one percent.
10.   Alleys.
   A.   Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts, except
that the Commission may waive this requirement where other definite and assured
provision is made for service access, such as off-street loading, unloading and
parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed.
   B.   The width of an alley shall be 20 feet.
   C.   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided,
but where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit safe
vehicular movement.
   D.   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if unavoidable,
shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead end, as
determined by the Commission.
11.   Blocks.
   A.   No block may be more than 1,320 feet or less than 500 feet in length
between the centerlines of intersecting streets, except where, in the opinion
of the Commission, extraordinary conditions unquestionably justify a departure
from these limits.
   B.   In blocks over 700 feet in length, the Commission may require at or
near the middle of the block a public way or easement of not less than 10 feet
in width for use by pedestrians and/or as an easement for public utilities.
12.   Lots.
   A.   The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientations shall be appropriate
for the location of the subdivision, for the type of development and use
contemplated, and shall conform to the zoning regulations of the City.
   B.   Minimum lot dimensions and sizes shall conform to the requirements of
the Zoning Ordinance, provided:
      (1)   Residential lots where not served by public sewer shall not be less
than 80 feet wide or less than 10,000 square feet in area.
      (2)   Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for commercial
and industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off-street parking
facilities required by the type and use and development contemplated.
      (3)   Corner lots for residential use shall have an extra 10 feet of
width to permit appropriate building setback from and orientation to both
streets.
   C.   The subdividing of the land shall be such as to provide, by means of a
public street, each lot with satisfactory access to an existing public street.
   D.   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots shall be avoided except where
essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic
arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation. A
planting screen easement of at least 10 feet and across which there shall be no
right of access, shall be provided along the line of lots abutting such a
traffic artery or other disadvantageous use.
   E.   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to straight
street lines or radial to curved street lines.
13.   Building Lines. Building lines conforming to zoning standards shall be
shown on all lots within the platted area. Where the subdivided area is not
under zoning control, the Commission may require building lines in accordance
with the needs of each subdivision.
14.   Easements.
   A.   Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines shall be
provided for utilities where necessary and shall be at least 10 feet wide.
   B.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel, or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially to the lines of such watercourse, and
further width for construction, or both, as will be adequate for the purpose.
15.   Monuments. Monuments shall be placed at all block corners, angle points,
points of curves in streets, and at intermediate points as shall be required by
the City Engineer. The monuments shall be of such material, size, and length as
may be approved by the City Engineer.
170.15   IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
The subdivider shall install and construct all improvements required by this
chapter. All required improvements shall be installed and constructed in
accordance with the specifications and under the supervision of the Commission
and to its satisfaction.
1.   Streets and Alleys. All streets and alleys within the platted area which
are dedicated for public use shall be brought to the grade approved by the
Council after receiving the report and recommendations of the City Engineer.
2.   Roadways. All roadways shall be surfaced with Portland cement concrete or
with asphaltic concrete over a crushed stone base as the Commission and Council
may require.
3.   Curb and Gutter. Curb and gutter shall be required on all streets. All
curb and gutter shall be constructed to the grade approved by the Council after
receiving the report and recommendations of the City Engineer.
4.   Sidewalks. Sidewalks may be required by the Council if they are considered
necessary for the general welfare and safety of the community. Sidewalks shall
be constructed to the grade approved by the Council after receiving the report
and recommendations of the City Engineer.
5.   Water Lines. Where a public water main is reasonably accessible, the
subdivider shall connect with such water main and provide a water connection
for each lot with service pipe installed to the property line in accordance
with the Water Department standards, procedure and supervision. Provision for
the future public water system mains may be required.
6.   Sewers.
   A.   Where a public sanitary sewer is reasonably accessible, the subdivider
shall connect or provide for the connection with such sanitary sewer and shall
provide within the subdivision the sanitary sewer system required to make the
sewer accessible to each lot in the subdivision. Sanitary sewers shall be
stubbed into each lot. Sewer systems shall be approved by the Council and the
State Department of Health, and the construction shall be subject to the
supervision of the City Engineer.
   B.   Where sanitary sewers are not available, other facilities, as approved
by the Council and the State Department of Health, must be provided for the
adequate disposal of sanitary wastes.
   C.   Adequate provisions shall be made for the disposal of storm waters,
subject to the approval of the Council and to the supervision of the City
Engineer.
170.16   COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
Before the Council will approve the final plat, all of the foregoing
improvements shall be constructed and accepted by formal resolution of the
Council. Before passage of said resolution of acceptance, the City Engineer
shall report that said improvements meet all City specifications and ordinances
or other City requirements, and the agreements between subdivider and the City.
170.17   PERFORMANCE BOND.
The completion requirement may be waived in whole or in part if the subdivider
will post a performance bond with the Council guaranteeing that improvements
not completed will be constructed within a period of one year from final
acceptance of the plat; but final acceptance of the plat will not constitute
final acceptance by the City of any improvements to be constructed.
Improvements will be accepted only after their construction has been completed,
and no public funds will be expended in the subdivision until such improvements
have been completed and accepted by the City.
170.18   VARIANCES.
Where in the case of a particular proposed subdivision, it can be shown that
strict compliance with the requirements of this chapter would result in
extraordinary hardship to the subdivider because of unusual topography or other
conditions, the Council may vary, modify, or waive the requirements so that
substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured. Provided,
however, such variance, modification or waiver will not have the effect of
nullifying the intent and purpose of this chapter. In no case shall any
variance or modification be more than minimum easing of the requirements and in
no instance shall it be in conflict with any zoning ordinance and such
variances and waivers may be granted only by the affirmative vote of three-
fourths (3/4) of the members of the Council.
170.19   CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
Any regulations or provisions of this regulation may be changed and amended
from time to time by the Council, provided however, that such changes or
amendments shall not become effective until after a public hearing has been
held, public notice of which shall have been given in a newspaper of general
circulation in the City, at least 15 days prior to such hearing.
CHAPTER 171
SIGNS
171.01 Purpose                          171.43 C-1 (Central Commercial
                                        District)
171.02 Definitions                      171.44 C-2 (Highway Commercial
                                        District)
171.03 Prohibited Signs                 171.45 M-1 (General Industrial
                                        District)
171.04 Corner Visual Clearance Required 171.46 - 171.66 Reserved
171.05 Home Occupation Signs and        ARTICLE III - PERMITS
Displays
171.06 Illuminated Signs Display Time   171.67 Permanent Sign Permits Required;
Restricted                              Fees
171.07 Temporary Signs Time Period      171.68 Sign Permit Exemptions
171.08 Real Estate Sign Posting Period  171.69 Non-Sign Items that Do Not
                                        Require Permit
171.09 Sign Maintenance Standards       171.70 Failure to Obtain Permit;
                                        Penalty
171.10 Nonconforming Uses               171.71 Application for Sign Permit
171.11 Calculation of Sign Area         171.72 Denial of Permits
171.12 - 171.38 Reserved                171.73 Revocation of Permits
ARTICLE II - DISTRICT REGULATIONS       171.74 Inspections
171.39 A-1 (Agricultural District)      171.75 - 171.95 Resrved
171.40 R-1 (One- and Two-Family         ARTICLE IV - ADMINISTRATION AND
Dwelling District)                      ENFORCEMENT
171.41 R-2 (Multiple-Family Dwelling    171.96 Enforcement
District
171.42 R-3 (Mobile Home Park District   171.97 Appeals and Variances
 
171.01 PURPOSE.
This chapter is intended to promote, preserve, and protect the health, safety,
and general welfare of the public by providing regulations and standards
relating to signs.
171.02 DEFINITIONS.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
1.   “Advertising” means the action of calling something to the attention of
the public.
2.   “Height” means the vertical distance between finished grade of the ground
nearest the structure and the upper most point of the structure.
3.   “Illuminated” means utilizing any artificial light source to make a
message readable.
4.   “Permanent sign” means any sign that is not a temporary sign.
5.   “Right-of-way (ROW)” means the reserved portion of a lot that is used by a
public utility.
6.   “Sign” means any device, surface, or medium using graphics, symbols,
designs, or written copy for the purpose of identifying any activity,
establishment, product or service.
7.   “Temporary sign” means any sign intended to be displayed for a limited
period of time, not to exceed 120 days or, for real estate signs, not to exceed
the time during which the property is actively offered for sale.
171.03 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
The following signs are prohibited in all zoning districts, unless expressly
otherwise provided in this chapter:
1.   Abandoned. Any sign which advertises or identifies a business, product or
service that has not been in use at that location for 90 days and/or any sign
that is not in a state of repair in conformance with Section
171.09.
2.   Improperly Attached. Any sign which is attached to standpipe, gutter
drain, unbraced parapet wall, fire escape, rock, tree, or utility pole.
3.   Obscene Material. Any sign which contains statements, words, or pictures
calculated to shock the moral senses by disregard of modesty.
4.   Off-Premises Advertising. Any sign which does not identify a bona fide
business, product, service or interest which is located on the same premises
for which said sign is located.
5.   Public Nuisance. Any sign which is a public nuisance because of amplified
sound, smoke emission, emitted visible vapor particles or objectional odors,
noise, vibration, lighting or constitutes a nuisance under State law or
Chapter 50.
6.   Restriction of Access. Any sign erected or placed so as to prevent free
egress from any door or window or any other access or exit required by any
code, ordinance or law.
7.   Right-of-Way (ROW). Any sign other than an official public traffic,
street, or related sign located in any street or highway ROW, unless allowed by
this chapter.
8.   Snipe. Any sign nailed or otherwise attached in any way to any tree, pole,
building, or structure advertising any business, commodity, service, or
facility sold or offered elsewhere than upon the same zoning lot where the sign
is located.
9.   Traffic Hazard. Any sign which:
   A.   By reason of its size, shape, design, location or manner of
illumination constitutes a traffic hazard or a detriment to traffic safety by
obscuring the vision of drivers.
   B.   By reason of its size, shape, design, location, content, coloring, or
manner of illumination may be construed as, or confused with, any official
traffic control device, street sign or signal, or which bears the terms “stop,”
“go slow,” “caution,” “danger,” “warning,” or similar terms which imply the
need for special actions on the part of any vehicle operator or pedestrian.
   C.   Contains a rotating beam or flashing illumination resembling an
emergency light in connection with any sign display which is visible from an
adjacent street.
10.   Unauthorized Placement. Any sign placed on private or public property
without the consent of the owner or the owner’s authorized agent unless posted
by law.
11.   Violation of Other Laws. Any sign which violates or advertises products
or activities which violate City, State, or federal law.
171.04 CORNER VISUAL CLEARANCE REQUIRED.
In all zoning districts except C-1, an unobscured visual site area which is
bounded by the street curb lines of the intersecting streets and a line
connecting two points on the street curb lines 45 feet from their point of
intersection shall be maintained. Such unobscured area, at a minimum, shall
extend from a distance of two feet above finished street curb grade to ten feet
above finished street curb grade. No sign faces, message boards, or other sign
structure except for two poles or post supports of no more than ten inches in
diameter shall be permitted within such unobscured area.
171.05 HOME OCCUPATION SIGNS AND DISPLAYS.
Home occupations signage and advertising displays pertaining to home
occupations shall comply with all provisions of City zoning regulations.
171.06 ILLUMINATED SIGNS DISPLAY TIME RESTRICTED.
Illuminated signs may not be turned on sooner than 6:00 a.m. and must be turned
off by 12:00 midnight in all residentially zoned districts.
171.07 TEMPORARY SIGNS TIME PERIOD.
Temporary signs are allowed to be displayed for no longer than 120 days.
171.08 REAL ESTATE SIGN POSTING PERIOD.
Real estate signs are considered temporary signs but may remain posted as long
as the property is actively for sale.
171.09 SIGN MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
All signs and their structures, both permanent and temporary, shall be
maintained by the sign owner or the owner of record of the real property upon
which the sign is located. Signs shall be maintained so as to be structurally
sound, in good repair, safe condition, and shall be kept in a state of
undeteriorated appearance by means of painting, sealing or coating and repair
or replacement of damaged parts, panels or lights. Maintenance carried out in
accordance with this section shall not require a sign permit provided the sign
is not enlarged, moved or altered in any manner which would create or increase
a nonconforming condition. Any sign violating these requirements shall be
repaired or removed as required.
1.   No sign shall be allowed to have more than 20 percent of its total surface
area covered with disfigured, cracked, faded, rotted, ripped or peeling paint
or poster paper, or any combination of these conditions for more than 30
consecutive days.
2.   No sign shall be allowed to stand with bent or broken sign facing, broken
supports, loose appendages or struts which cause the sign to stand more than 15
degrees from the perpendicular for more than 30 consecutive days.
3.   No sign or sign structure shall be allowed to have weeds, vines or other
vegetation obscuring more than 20 percent of the sign from the street or
highway from which it is intended to be viewed for more than 30 consecutive
days.
4.   No illuminated sign shall be allowed to stand with only partial
illumination for more than 30 consecutive days.
171.10 NONCONFORMING USES.
1.   Authority for Continuance of Nonconforming Signs. Any legally established
nonconforming sign, except as provided in Subsection 3 of this section, shall
be allowed to continue but shall not be altered or reconstructed unless the
action is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
2.   Ordinary Repairs and Maintenance. Ordinary repairs and maintenance of
nonconforming signs may be carried out provided that no alterations are made
which would add to the size, area, or degree of nonconformity of the size. For
the purpose of this section, the term “ordinary repairs and maintenance”
includes clearing; painting; replacement of sign faces, bulbs, letters,
figures, characters, posters, or other embellishments which do not increase the
size of the sign; or landscaping around the sign.
3.   Termination of Nonconforming Status. In the following circumstances, a
legal nonconforming sign shall immediately lose its legal nonconforming status,
if:
   A.   The sign is altered to comply with the provisions of this chapter; or
   B.   The sign is determined to be abandoned as provided by Section
171.03(1), in which case the sign must be removed in accordance with Section
171.96(3); or
   C.   The sign is destroyed or damaged to the extent of more than 50 percent
of its replacement cost, in which case the sign must be removed in accordance
with Section
171.96(3), unless otherwise authorized by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
171.11 CALCULATION OF SIGN AREA.
The area of a sign shall be determined as follows:
1.   The area included within a border or module shall be summed and then
totaled to determine total area. The area shall include the extreme points or
edges of the sign, within the border which form an integral part of the
display, but shall not include the supporting structure, framing, pole covers,
decorative roofing and similar embellishments, provided there is not written
advertising copy on such embellishments.
2.   The area of a sign composed of individual letters, symbols or characters,
attached to a building or a wall, shall be determined by the total area within
the perimeter of all the letters, symbols or characters.
3.   Where a sign has two or more faces, the area of all faces shall be
included in determining the area of the sign, except when two faces are back to
back and are of equal area.
171.12 – 171.38 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II – DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
171.39 A-1 (AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT).
Temporary signs are allowed, however no temporary sign may be larger than five
square feet. Permanent signs are allowed for those principal uses permitted in
said zoning district, as provided for in
Chapter 165, up to a maximum of 50 square feet.
171.40 R-1 (ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT).
Temporary signs are allowed, however no temporary sign may be larger than five
square feet. Permanent signs are allowed for those principal uses permitted in
said zoning district, as provided for in
Chapter 165, except permanent signs for residential use, up to a maximum of 50
square feet.
171.41 R-2 (MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLIING DISTRICT).
Temporary signs are allowed, however no temporary sign may be larger than five
square feet. Permanent signs are allowed for those principal uses permitted in
said zoning district, as provided in
Chapter 165, except permanent signs for residential use, up to a maximum of 50
square feet.
171.42 R-3 (MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT).
Temporary signs are allowed, however no temporary sign may be larger than five
square feet. Permanent signs are allowed for those principal uses permitted in
said zoning district, as provided for in
Chapter 165, up to a maximum of 50 square feet.
171.43 C-1 (CENTRAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT).
Temporary signs are allowed, however no temporary sign may be larger than ten
square feet. Permanent signs for commercial use are allowed; permanent signs
for residential use are prohibited. In addition, permanent signs are subject to
the following restrictions:
1.   Maximum sign square footage is as set forth below. The square footage
allotment can only be used on the side of the lot for which it is configured,
e.g., the front property line allotment may only be used on the front of the
building. Maximum square footage per side is limited to:
   A.   Front of property: four square feet for each foot of lot width.
   B.   Side of property: four square feet for each foot of lot length.
   C.   Rear of property: four square feet for each foot of lot width.
2.   Maximum sign height is 25 feet; provided, however, that a permit may be
issued for a maximum height of 75 feet in a C-1, C-2, or M-1 District if all of
the following provisions are met:
   A.   The sign is located on the business site to which the sign applies.
   B.   The sign is located within 200 feet south or north of the ROW
centerline of State Highway No. 3.
   C.   The applicant must demonstrate to the City Council and/or their
designees that additional height is necessary for the sign to be viewed from
the ROW centerline of State Highway No. 3.
3.   Signs in this district may project into or over ROW, however, they shall
not project any closer than one (1) foot from any street or highway abutting
said ROW. In addition, such sign projecting into or over ROW must have a
minimum of ten (10) feet clearance from grade. Signs must be self-supported,
have no poles, posts or supports on City ROW, unless the City Council has
approved an Encroachment Permit related to said posts or support. This
allowable sign projection applies only to properties that have a building built
on the property line.
171.44 C-2 (HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT).
Temporary signs are allowed, however no temporary sign may be larger than ten
square feet. Permanent signs for commercial use are allowed; permanent signs
for residential use are prohibited. In addition, permanent signs are subject to
the following restrictions:
1.   Maximum sign square footage is as set forth below. The square footage
allotment can only be used on the side of the lot for which it is configured,
e.g., the front property line allotment may only be used on the front of the
building. Maximum square footage per side is limited to:
   A.   Front of property: four square feet for each foot of lot width.
   B.   Side of property: four square feet for each foot of lot length.
   C.   Rear of property: four square feet for each foot of lot width.
2.   Maximum sign height is 25 feet; provided, however, that a permit may be
issued for a maximum height of 75 feet in a C-1, C-2, or M-1 District if the
following provisions are met:
   A.   The sign is located on the business site to which the sign applies.
   B.   The sign is located within 200 feet south or north of the ROW
centerline of State Highway No. 3.
   C.   The applicant must demonstrate to the City Council and/or their
designees that additional height is necessary for the sign to be viewed from
the ROW centerline of State Highway No. 3.
171.45 M-1 (GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT).
Temporary signs are allowed, however no temporary sign may be larger than ten
square feet. Permanent signs for industrial and commercial use are allowed;
permanent signs for residential use are prohibited. In addition, permanent
signs are subject to the following restrictions:
1.   Maximum sign square footage is as set forth below. The square footage
allotment can only be used on the side of the lot for which it is configured,
e.g., the front property line allotment may only be used on the front of the
building. Maximum square footage per side is limited to:
   A.   Front of property: four square feet for each foot of lot width.
   B.   Side of property: four square feet for each foot of lot length.
   C.   Rear of property: four square feet for each foot of lot width.
2.   Maximum sign height is 35 feet; provided, however, that a permit may be
issued for a maximum height of 75 feet in a C-1, C-2, or M-1 District if the
following provisions are met:
   A.   The sign is located on the business site to which the sign applies.
   B.   The sign is located within 200 feet south or north of the ROW
centerline of State Highway No. 3.
   C.   The applicant must demonstrate to the City Council and/or their
designees that additional height is necessary for the sign to be viewed from
the ROW centerline of State Highway No. 3.
171.46 – 171.66 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III – PERMITS.
171.67 PERMANENT SIGN PERMITS REQUIRED; FEES.
1.   It is unlawful for any person to erect, alter, or relocate within the City
any sign or other advertising structure without first obtaining a Sign Permit.
This section shall not apply to a copy or replacement of a sign face on an
existing sign provided the size or height of the sign is not altered or to
normal maintenance, cleaning, or repair of a sign but not structural
alteration.
2.   Fees shall be established and modified by the current fee schedule set by
City Council.
171.68 SIGN PERMIT EXEMPTIONS.
The following signs are exempted from the sign permit requirements:
1.   Historical Marker. A marker, monument, plaque, sign or notice located on
public or private property which identifies or records historical event,
incident, or fact and which conforms to State law.
2.   Memorial. Any sign or tablet identifying the name of a building and date
of construction when cut into a masonry surface or inlaid so as to be part of
the building.
3.   Public Sign. Any sign required or specifically authorized for a public
purpose by law or by any court, governmental order, rule or regulation.
4.   Traffic Sign. Any traffic or similar sign of a public agency, such as a
railroad crossing sign.
5.   Warning Sign. Any sign warning or danger, hazard, or unsafe conditions,
but containing no advertising material. Such sign shall be removed upon
termination of the danger.
171.69 NON-SIGN ITEMS THAT DO NOT REQUIRE PERMIT.
The following items are not considered signs and do not require permits:
1.   Flags. A piece of fabric (most often rectangular or quadrilateral) with a
distinctive design that is used as a symbol, as a signaling device, or as
decoration not to be used as a commercial advertising device.
2.   Holiday Decorations. Temporary decorations or displays celebrating the
occurrence of traditionally accepted national, local, or religious holidays,
provided that such decorations are located outside the City’s right-of-way and
the corner visual clearance area and do not otherwise create a sight visibility
problem or other hazard for motor vehicles.
3.   Mural. A large expanse of wall area covered by paint or other artistic
medium that does not contain any advertising or commercial symbolism such as
logos or trademarks or does not represent any product, except to identify the
artist.
4.   Religious Symbol. Religious symbol at a place of worship or at a facility
owned or operated by a religious institution.
171.70 FAILURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT; PENALTY.
When any sign is erected, placed, or structurally altered prior to obtaining a
permit as required by this article, the fee specified in Section
171.67 shall be multiplied by six (6). The payment of such additional fee shall
not relieve any person from complying with other provisions of this section or
from any penalties prescribed in the City Code.
171.71 APPLICATION FOR SIGN PERMIT.
Application for a permit for the erection, alteration or relocation of a sign
shall be made to the City Council and/or their designees upon a form provided
by the City and shall include the following information:
1.   Name, address, and telephone number of person or firm erecting the sign.
2.   Name and address of the owner of the sign.
3.   Street address or location of the property on which the sign is to be
located.
4.   Name and address of the owner of the property on which the sign is to be
located.
5.   A site plan showing the proposed location of the sign and the location of
all other existing signs on the same premises.
6.   Drawing or specifications showing the dimensions, materials, design,
structural supports, and electrical components of the proposed sign. If
required by the City Council and/or their designees, engineering data shall be
supplied or plans submitted certified by an architect or engineer licensed by
the State.
171.72 DENIAL OF PERMITS.
When a sign permit is denied, the applicant shall receive a written notice
stating the reasons for denial. The applicant may appeal the denial of the sign
permit according to the procedures contained in Section
171.97.
171.73 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
The sign permit may be revoked for any false statement, alteration of the sign
or misrepresentation of fact in the application.
171.74 INSPECTIONS.
All signs for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection by the
City Council and/or their designees. Footing inspections may be required by the
City Council and/or their designees for all signs having footings. All signs
may be re inspected at the discretion of the City Council and/or their
designees.
171.75 – 171.95 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV – ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
171.96 ENFORCEMENT.
1.   Responsibility. The City Council and/or their designees shall have the
responsibility and authority to enforce this chapter, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
2.   Violations. The City Council and/or their designees shall, upon
determination of any violation of this chapter, notify in writing the owner of
the sign structure, or of the land, building, or structure upon which the sign
is located. Such written notification of violation shall identify the sign or
sign structure, state the nature of the violation, and order the action
necessary to correct the violation. Specifically, the City Council and/or their
designees may order one or more of the following actions:
   A.   Repair or modification of a sign or sign structure.
   B.   Removal of any sign unlawfully installed, erected, or maintained.
   C.   Order the discontinuance of illegal work being done.
   D.   Order the discontinuance of illegal or prohibited signs or structures.
   E.   Take any other action authorized by City zoning regulations to ensure
compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions, and in particular
shall, where necessary or appropriate, recommend to the City Attorney the
institution of legal or equitable actions that may be required for enforcement
of this article.
3.   Removal of Signs. Upon determination of any violation of this chapter,
subsequent removal procedures will be as follows:
   A.   Permanent Signs.
      (1)   Signs on Private Property. If a sign identifies a business, product
or service that has been closed or not in use for 90 days or longer the City
Council and/or their designees shall issue notice to the property owner to have
the sign removed within 30 days.
      (2)   Where a safety hazard exists, the City may remove a sign without
notice and all costs shall be paid by the property owner.
      (3)   Signs in ROW. When a sign is placed on public property the City
shall have the right to remove the sign immediately and store the sign for not
less than three days, whereupon the City may dispose of the sign in a manner
similar to other abandoned property.
   B.   Temporary Signs. A notice shall be sent to the property owner stating
the violation and the specific time in which the sign must removed. If the
owner fails to have the sign removed in the prescribed timeframe, the City will
follow may proceed to pursue a municipal infraction.
4.   Appeals. Any person affected by a decision of City Council and/or their
designees in their enforcement of this chapter may appeal the decision
according to the procedures contained in Section
171.97.
171.97 APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
1.   Zoning Board of Adjustment. Any person affected by a decision regarding
the enforcement or interpretation of this chapter may appeal that decision to
the Zoning Board of Adjustment according to the procedures set forth in City
zoning regulations. Appeals to the Zoning Board of Adjustment may include the
following:
   A.   Requests for variances or exceptions in specific cases from the
specific provisions of this chapter except as set forth in Subsections (1)(B-D)
of this section.
   B.   Requests for an extension of time for the compliance of any notice or
order issued pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   Allegations of error in any order, requirement, decision or
determination made in the enforcement of this chapter.
   D.   Requests for permission to reconstruct or re-erect a nonconforming sign
or sign structure which has been damaged by fire, explosion, or act of God to
the extent or more than 50 percent of its replacement cost.
(Chapter 171 – Ord. 623 – Mar. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 172
DEBTS SUBJECT TO SETOFF
 
172.01  172.03 Debts Subject to Setoff Constituting “Qualifying Debt” Pursuant to Iowa
Purpose Code 421.65
172.02
Debts   172.04 Procedure foro Certification to the Iowa Department of Revenue for Setoff
and
Charges
 
172.01 PURPOSE.
This chapter is intended to establish policies and procedures pursuant to Iowa
Code 421,65, authorizing the City to invoke the setoff provisions contained
therein for debts owing the City and for which the City has afforded the debtor
the opportunity to contest the debt.
172.02 DEBTS AND CHARGES.
Any customer, resident or property owner for which the following debts or
charges outlined in Code Section
172.03 below shall apply shall pay those debts or charges to the City as
provided for in the debts or charges notice or bill provided to said customer,
resident or property owner. Failure to pay said debts or charges as provided in
said notice or bill shall subject said customer, resident or property owner to
Code Sections
172.03 and
172.04 below.
172.03 DEBTS SUBJECT TO SETOFF CONSTITUTING “QUALIFYING DEBT” PURSUANT TO IOWA
CODE 421.65.
All debts or charges authorized herein by the City of Clarion Municipal Code or
otherwise set by resolution approved by the Clarion City Council shall be
deemed “qualifying debts” subject to the provisions of Iowa Code 421.65, for
which the City shall provide those procedures as set out here in
Chapter 172 of the City Code. Such “qualifying debts” include, but are not
limited to the following:
1.   Past-due utility bills – water, sewer, stormwater, garbage service;
2.   Unreturned (overdue) or damaged library materials/equipment;
3.   Past-due parking tickets;
4.   Aquatic center season pass, entry fees, lessons or concessions;
5.   Past-due sidewalk snow/ice removal invoice;
6.   Past-due mowing invoice;
7.   Past-due nuisance abatement invoice;
8.   Past-due animal impound fee invoice;
9.   Past-due connection fees, permit fees, private water lines, curb box (shut
off), water meters;
10.   Past-due fire fees;
11.   Past-due ambulance fees;
12.   Past-due rental license/rental inspection fees;
13.   Any debt which is in the form of a liquidated sum due, owing, and payable
to the Clerk of the District Court; and
14.   Any other liquidated sum certain, owing, and payable to the City of
Clarion, Iowa, with respect to which the City has afforded the debtor notice
provided herein.
172.04 PROCEDURE FOR CERTIFICATION TO THE IOWA DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE FOR
SETOFF.
With respect to any debt herein, the City shall provide the debtor fifteen (15)
days advanced written notice to the debtor’s last-known address, affording the
debtor a period of fifteen (15) days within which to protest or appeal the
delinquency to the City Administrator for the City. If the delinquency is
upheld by the City Administrator, or the debtor has not paid the debt within
fifteen (15) of the date of the notice, the City may certify the delinquency to
the Iowa Department of Revenue for purposes of collection pursuant to Iowa Code
421.65.
(Chapter 172 – Ord. 625 – Mar. 24 Supp.)
